TOWN CODE
of
CLARKSTON TOWN, UTAH
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 25-01, passed 1-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Town of Clarkston, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-01, passed January 7, 2025.
Ordinances of the Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Town office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
CLARKSTON TOWN CORP.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE OF CLARKSTON TOWN, STATE OF UTAH, ADOPTING THE CLARKSTON TOWN CODE
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the mayor and town council of Clarkston,
county of Cache, state of Utah, as follows:
   SECTION 1. From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the town
code of the town of Clarkston, Utah, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the town, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the town as enacted by the mayor and town council.
   SECTION 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official town code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies which shall be maintained in
the office of the town clerk, certified as to correctness and available for
inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly open.
   SECTION 3. All ordinances of a general nature included in this official town
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official town code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the town code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official town code.
   SECTION 4. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   SECTION 5. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   SECTION 6. This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED and APPROVED this 10th day of July, 2003, by motion from councilmember
Goodey and second by councilmember May.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bb8413675fd6b9d0f93422ad736bfe05ffef1c1d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.png]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Incorporation Of Statutes
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this town code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Clarkston Town. This
town code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CLARKSTON TOWN CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the town council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
 1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal documents. The official town code shall be
the code on file in the town clerk's office. (1976 Code § 1-001; amd. 2003
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the town code. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the town clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the town code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the town
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the town and shall be
returned to the office of the town clerk when directed so to do by order of the
town council. (2003 Code)
1-1-5: INCORPORATION OF STATUTES:
Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or construed
to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this code
unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate or make
the citation or statute part of this code by reference or incorporation, and
any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated may be
changed, amended or deleted without publication on an order of the city
council. (1976 Code § 1-009)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the town passed prior
to the adoption of this town code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this town code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the town; and all special ordinances. (1976 Code § 1-
002; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (1976 Code § 1-003)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this town code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The town council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1976 Code § 1-007; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this town code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this town code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
town code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. The use of any
verb in the present tense shall include the future and past tense when
applicable.
   B.   All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to
the common use and understanding of the language; the technical words and
phrases and such other words and phrases as may have acquired a particular
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such particular
meaning.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1976 Code § 1-005;
amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license or permit is required by any ordinance of the
town.
   CODE: The town code of Clarkston Town, Utah.
   COUNTY: Cache County, Utah.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of
Clarkston Town".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   HIGHWAY; ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road" and "state road".
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation. The term "license" includes any certificate, permit
or license issued by the town.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT OR TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS OR OFFICIALS: Any elected or appointed person employed by the town,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Whenever reference is made in
this code to a town officer or official by title only, this shall be construed
as though followed by the words "of Clarkston Town".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, limited
liability company, association, organization, government or any other group
acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
   REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be
done in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable
time for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for
the expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The state of Utah.
   STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
   TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether
alone or with others.
   TIME COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any
ordinance or in any resolution or order of the town, when expressed in days,
shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last day,
except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day shall
be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a Sunday or
legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal holidays
shall be excluded.
   TOWN: Clarkston Town, Cache County, Utah.
   TOWN CLERK: The individual appointed to act as the town clerk of the town.
   TOWN COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the town council of the Clarkston
Town, Utah.
   WEEK: Shall be construed to mean any seven (7) day period.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer", as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1976 Code § 1-005; amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1976 Code § 1-006)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Administrative Hearings
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance  1
: Unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute, the town council may
provide a penalty for the violation of any town ordinance by a fine not to
exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section
76-3-301, or by a term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the
fine and term of imprisonment. The town council may prescribe a minimum penalty
for the violation of any town ordinance and may impose a civil penalty for the
unauthorized use of town property, including, but not limited to, the use of
parks, streets and other public grounds or equipment. Rules of civil procedure
shall be substantially followed. (2003 Code)
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors  2
: A person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to
imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days. (1976 Code § 1-322; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Infractions  3
:
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor. (1976 Code §
1-323; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Fines Of Persons  4
: A person convicted of an offense may, in addition to any term of imprisonment
imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction. (1976 Code § 1-331; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Fines Of Corporations  5
: The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon a corporation, association,
partnership or governmental instrumentality for an offense defined in this
code, or the ordinances of the town, or for an offense defined outside of this
code over which this town has jurisdiction, for which no special corporate fine
is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (1976 Code § 3-332; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 4. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 1. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this town shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided. (1976 Code § 1-311)
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions. (1976 Code § 1-312)
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified  1
:
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this town when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor. (1976 Code § 1-313)
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this town, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this town which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction. (1976 Code § 1-314)
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (1976 Code § 1-315)
 
Notes
1 2. UCA § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Request: Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of the
town or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the town council may be
requested by any person:
      1.   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent
or employee of this town.
      2.   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued. (1976 Code § 1-411)
   B.   Form Of Request: The request for hearing must be made in writing to the
mayor or town clerk and made within thirty (30) days following the date notice
denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the license or permit is
mailed by the town to the applicant or license holder at his address as it
appears on the application or license. (1976 Code § 4-412)
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   Time And Place: Following receipt of a request for hearing, the town
council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place the
hearing is to be held.
      2.   Witnesses; Evidence: At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have
the right to hear and examine any witnesses the town may produce to support its
decision and to present his own evidence in support of his contention.
      3.   Decision Of Town Council: The town council shall, within ten (10)
days following the conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who
requested the hearing of the decision of the town council. (1976 Code § 1-413)
   D.   Not Additional Remedy: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the town council nor
shall the hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (1976 Code § 1-414)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-5-2: Membership; Terms
1-5-3: Mayor As Member Of Town Council
1-5-4: Meetings; Procedure And Conduct
1-5-5: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedures
1-5-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a town office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the town for at least one year immediately
before the date of the election; and
      2.   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
   B.   Annexed Areas: A person living in an area annexed to the town meets the
residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the area
annexed to the town for at least one year before the date of the election.
   C.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to town office shall be a
registered voter in the town.
   D.   Continuous Absence From Town: If an elected town officer is absent from
the town any time during his term of office for a continuous period of more
than sixty (60) days without the consent of the town council, the town office
is automatically vacant. (1976 Code § 3-210; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Residency: Any elected official not residing in the town for sixty (60)
consecutive days without the consent of the town council shall be removed from
office by the town council.
   F.   Unfulfillment Of Duties: Any elected official not fulfilling their
duties as assigned shall not receive a salary for the fiscal year in question.
This shall be determined by the town council.
   G.   Unexcused Absences From Meetings: Any elected official missing three
(3) consecutive council meetings without being excused by the town council
shall be removed from office by the town council. (Ord. 98-05, 6-5-1998)
1-5-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.   Composition: The town council shall be a council of five (5) persons,
one of whom shall be the mayor and the remaining four (4) shall be council
members.
   B.   Election; Terms: The election and terms of office of the officers shall
be as follows:
      1.   The offices of mayor and two (2) council members shall be filled in
municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      2.   The offices of the other two (2) council members shall be filled in
a municipal election held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      3.   The offices shall be filled in at large elections which shall be
held at the time and the manner provided for electing municipal officers.
   C.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or town council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (1976 Code §§ 3-221, 3-222;
amd. 2003 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Administration Vested In Mayor: The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the mayor. (2003 Code)
   B.   Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The mayor shall be the
chairperson and preside at the meetings of the town council. In the absence of
the mayor or because of his inability or refusal to act, the town council may
elect a member of the town council to preside over the meeting as mayor pro
tempore, who shall have all the powers and duties of the mayor during his
absence or disability. The election of a mayor pro tempore shall be entered in
the minutes of the meeting. (1976 Code § 3-512)
   C.   Voting: The mayor shall vote as a member of the town council. Any
member of the town council appointed to act as mayor pro tempore shall cast
only one vote. (2003 Code)
   D.   Powers And Duties: The mayor shall be the chief executive and
administrator of the town and shall:
      1.   Appoint Officers: Appoint, with the concurrence of the town council,
all officers of the town;
      2.   Supervise: Supervise all appointed officials and employees;
      3.   Recommend Position Changes: Recommend to the town council any change
in position of any person requiring the concurrence or action of the town
council;
      4.   Inspect Books And Records: Inspect all books and records pertaining
to town affairs kept by any officer, employee or former officer or employee of
the town at any reasonable time;
      5.   Settle Disputes: Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective
duties or powers of any appointed officer of the town, the dispute shall be
settled by the mayor, who may confer with the town attorney; and the mayor
shall have the power to delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to
be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty,
subject to the consent of the town council at its next regular meeting;
      6.   Designate Persons For Temporary Assignments: Temporarily designate
himself or any other person to perform the duties of any office or position of
the town which is vacant or which is not properly administered due to the
absence or disability of the person appointed to that office or position;
      7.   Reports To Town Council: Prepare and present to the town council
such reports as are required by law and such other reports as are requested by
the town council;
      8.   Other Required Duties: Perform such other duties as may be required
by statute or ordinance. (1976 Code § 3-511)
   E.   No Veto: The mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the town
council, unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (2003 Code)
1-5-4: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The governing body shall conduct regular council
meetings which shall be held on the second Thursday of each month at the
Clarkston Town hall, 50 South Main, Clarkston, Utah, in which meetings shall
begin promptly at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. If the meeting date is a legal
holiday, the meeting shall be held at the same time and place above described
on the next Thursday following that is not a legal holiday. A copy of the
annual meeting schedule for the Clarkston Town council is attached to the
resolution codified herein as exhibit A. (Res. 08-01, 1-10-2008)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   If at any time the business of the town requires a special meeting
of the town council, such meeting may be ordered by the mayor or any two (2)
members of the town council. The order shall be entered in the minutes of the
town council. The order shall provide at least three (3) hours' notice of the
special meeting, and notice thereof shall be served by the town clerk on each
member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or by
leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal appearance by a
council member at any specially called meeting constitutes a waiver of the
notice required in this subsection.
      2.   The written notice required in subsection B1 of this section shall
state the time and place the special meeting is to be held and the purpose for
which the special meeting is being called. (1976 Code § 3-320; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Open Meetings; Exceptions: Every meeting is open to the public, unless
closed pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-4 and 52-4-5. (1976 Code §
3-341; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Quorum:
      1.   Defined: The number of members of the town council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more. (1976 Code § 3-231; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Necessary: No action of the town council shall be official or of any
effect except when a quorum of the members are present. Fewer than a quorum may
adjourn from time to time. (2003 Code)
      3.   Compelling Attendance: A quorum or fewer than a quorum of the town
council may, at any regularly held meeting, compel the attendance of absent
members and direct the town's law enforcement agency to bring the absent member
to the meeting on an order signed by a majority of the members present;
provided, that the town's law enforcement agency shall not use force to compel
the attendance of such absent member. (1976 Code § 3-232; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Voting:
      1.   How Vote Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions and any action which would create a liability against
the town and in any other case at the request of any member of the town council
by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. The town clerk shall call the
roll in alphabetical order. Every resolution or ordinance shall be in writing
before the vote is taken. (1976 Code §§ 3-331, 3-332; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Minimum Vote Required: The minimum number of votes required to pass
any ordinance, resolution or to take any action by the town council, unless
otherwise prescribed by law, shall never be less than three (3).
         a.   Any ordinance, resolution or motion of the town council having
fewer favorable votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and
invalid, except a meeting may be adjourned to a specific time by a majority
vote of the town council even though such majority vote is less than that
required herein.
         b.   A majority of the members of the town council, regardless of
number, may fill any vacancy in the town council. (1976 Code § 3-330; amd. 2003
Code)
      3.   Reconsideration: Any action taken by the town council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
of the town council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than
the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
(1976 Code § 3-333; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Record Of Proceedings: The town clerk shall keep a record of the
proceedings of the meetings of the town council, except that minutes of closed
sessions shall not be available to the public until such time as the town
council shall make them public or by an order of court. (1976 Code § 3-345;
amd. 2003 Code)
   G.   Conduct; Order Of Business:
      1.   Rules Of Procedure: Except as otherwise specifically required or
provided by law, this code or by resolution of the town council, the most
current edition of Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the procedure and
conduct of the meetings of the town council. (1976 Code § 3-351)
      2.   Agenda: All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions,
contract documents or other matters to be submitted to the town council shall
be delivered to the town clerk at least twenty four (24) hours prior to each
town council meeting, whereon the town clerk shall immediately arrange a list
of such matters according to the order of business and furnish each member of
the town council and, when present, the town attorney, with a copy of the same
prior to the town council meeting and as far in advance of the meeting as time
for preparation will permit. Only the foregoing matters shall be presented to
the town council by administrative officials, except those of an urgent nature;
provided, that the town council may, by motion, waive the requirements of this
subsection. (1976 Code § 3-352)
      3.   Order Of Business:
         a.   At the time and place set for each meeting of the members of the
town council, the business of the town shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order, unless otherwise provided by motion of the
town council:
            (1)   Roll call.
            (2)   Reading of minutes of previous meeting.
            (3)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting.
            (4)   Petitions, remonstrances and communications.
            (5)   Introduction and adoption of resolutions and ordinances.
            (6)   Report of officers, boards and committees.
            (7)   Unfinished business.
            (8)   New business.
            (9)   Miscellaneous.
            (10)   Public comment (if allowed).
            (11)   Appropriations.
            (12)   Adjournment.
         b.   The town council may by motion change, amend or delete any agenda
item provided for in this subsection. (1976 Code § 3-353; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Action On Committee Reports: Final action on any report of any
committee appointed by the town council shall be deferred to the next regular
meeting of the town council on the request of any two (2) members, except that
the town council may call a special meeting to consider final action. (1976
Code § 3-354; amd. 2003 Code)
      5.   Discipline Of Members: The town council may fine or expel any member
for disorderly conduct on a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members of the town
council. (1976 Code § 3-355; amd. 2003 Code)
1-5-5: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The town council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the town shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel. (1976 Code § 3-414; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the town council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by Clarkston Town:
";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
town ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or mayor pro tempore to sign
the ordinance; and
      9.   A place for the town clerk to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the town.
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the town council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
town council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1) through 10-3-704(4). (2003 Code)
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the town council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the town council, whichever is sooner. (1976 Code § 3-
411; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances: All ordinances, except those
enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-706 to 10-3-710, before
taking effect shall be deposited in the office of the town clerk and a short
summary of the ordinance published at least once in a newspaper published
within the town, or if there is no newspaper published therein, then by posting
complete copies in three (3) public places within the town. Any ordinance, code
or book, other than the state code, relating to building or safety standards,
town functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and
shall take effect without further publication or posting, if reference is made
to the code or book and at least three (3) copies have been filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the town clerk prior to the adoption
of the ordinance by the town council. Any state law relating to building or
safety standards, town functions, administration, control or regulations, may
be adopted and shall take effect without further publication or posting if
reference is made to the state code. The ordinance adopting the code or book
shall be published in the manner provided in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-
709 and 10-3-710. (1976 Code § 3-412; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Recording; Numbering; Certification Of Passage:
      1.   The town clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the town council. The town clerk shall give
each ordinance a number, if the town council has not already so done.
Immediately following passage of each ordinance, or codification of ordinances,
the town clerk shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of
passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required. The record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
(1976 Code § 3-413; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   The town clerk, insofar as possible, shall assign all ordinances of
a general nature a number, which shall conform to the numbering system used in
this code and shall indicate upon the face of the ordinance the date adopted.
      3.   The town clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedication, bond issues and tax
levies, in a separate book of "special ordinances" properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted. The first number of such an ordinance
shall be the last two (2) digits of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed
by a dash which is followed by a number indicating the order in which such
special ordinance was adopted during the year.
      4.   Failure to comply with this subsection shall not affect or render
invalid any ordinance of the town. (1976 Code § 1-008)
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the town council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for town services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the town property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the town council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a later
date as the town council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-6-2: Town Clerk And Town Treasurer
1-6-3: Bonds Of Officers
1-6-4: Oath Of Office
1-6-5: Duties Of All Officers
1-6-6: Compensation
1-6-7: Official Neglect And Misconduct
1-6-8: Supervision By Mayor
1-6-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Offices Created By Council: The town council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the town and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices.
   B.   Mayor To Appoint And Fill Vacancies: The mayor, with the advice and
consent of the town council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   C.   Continuation In Office: All appointed officers shall continue in office
until their successors are appointed and qualified. (2003 Code)
1-6-2: TOWN CLERK AND TOWN TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a town
election, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the town council, shall
appoint a qualified person to each of the offices of town clerk and town
treasurer.
   B.   Ex Officio Auditor: The town clerk is ex officio town auditor and shall
perform the duties of that office. (1976 Code § 3-611; amd. 2003 Code)
1-6-3: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Approval Of Bonds: The bonds of the council members shall be approved
by the mayor and the bond of the mayor shall be approved by the town council at
the first meeting of the town council in January following a town election.
(2003 Code)
   B.   Premium Paid By Town: The premium charged by a corporate surety for any
bond required by the town shall be paid by the town. (1976 Code § 3-521)
   C.   Additional Bonds; Filing: The town council may at any time require
further and additional bonds of any or all officers elected or appointed. All
bonds given by the officers, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be
filed with the town clerk, except that the bond of the town clerk shall be
filed with the town treasurer. (2003 Code)
   D.   Bond Amounts: Before taking the oath of office and entering on the
duties of their respective office, the following named town officials shall
each give a bond with good and sufficient securities, payable to the town,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their office and the
payment of all monies received by such officers according to Utah Code
Annotated section 51-7-5, as amended, rule 4 of the state money management
council, and all other applicable laws and ordinances of the town, in the
amounts therein required. (1976 Code § 3-521; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Treasurer's Bond: The town treasurer's bond shall be superseded by any
rule, regulation or directive of the state money management council when such
rule, regulation or directive is binding on the town.
   F.   Blanket Bond: The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
(1976 Code § 3-521)
1-6-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office. The form of oath
shall be as provided in the Utah constitution article IV, section 10. (1976
Code §§ 3-531, 3-532; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Filing: The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the town clerk. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is
practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering
on their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the town clerk.
   C.   Acts Of Unsworn Officials Not Voided: No official act of any town
officer shall be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of
office. (2003 Code)
1-6-5: DUTIES OF ALL OFFICERS:
It shall be the duty of all officers of the town to:
   A.   Deliver Records To Successor: Deliver to their successor within one
week after the change of office all records, documents and property which
belong to the town.
   B.   Deliver Funds To Treasurer: Deliver to the town treasurer within one
week after receipt of such funds all funds of the town which the officer
receives.
   C.   Sign Required Records: Sign within a reasonable time all papers,
documents and records received by him which require his signature.
   D.   Perform Duties Imposed: Perform all duties imposed by him by virtue of
the office held.
   E.   Issue Receipts: Give receipts on forms provided by the town clerk for
all sums of money received, collected or paid them or their assistants. (1976
Code § 3-631)
1-6-6: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Specified: The salaries of the officers and employees of the town shall
be paid in the amount and at such times as is established by ordinance of the
town council, from time to time. (1976 Code § 3-551; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Serving Two Or More Positions: Whenever any person serves in two (2) or
more positions either as an officer or employee of this town, unless otherwise
specifically provided in the employment agreement, by ordinance or by
resolution, that person shall receive the salary or compensation of the office
or employment paying the greater amount. (1976 Code § 3-553)
1-6-7: OFFICIAL NEGLECT AND MISCONDUCT:
In case any town officer shall at any time wilfully omit to perform any duty,
or wilfully and corruptly be guilty of oppression, malconduct, misfeasance or
malfeasance in office, the person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor, shall be
removed from office and is not eligible for any town office thereafter. (2003
Code)
1-6-8: SUPERVISION BY MAYOR:
The mayor shall supervise the official conduct of all officers of the town and
investigate or cause to be investigated and present any complaint to the town
council, together with the results of the investigation, at the next regular
meeting of the town council after the complaint is received by him. (1976 Code
§ 3-623)
CHAPTER 7
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-7-1: State Statute Adopted
1-7-2: Public Records; Costs For Copies
1-7-1: STATE STATUTE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah government records access and management act (Utah Code
Annotated section 63-2-101 et seq.), as amended, are hereby adopted by the
town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
section and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this section if proceeded hereunder. (Res. 98-08, 8-7-1998;
amd. 2003 Code)
1-7-2: PUBLIC RECORDS; COSTS FOR COPIES:
Any public record of the town may be copied or electronically reproduced for
any member of the public on payment to the town clerk of the sum of one dollar
($1.00) for the first page copied and ten cents ($0.10) for each page copied
thereafter, whether the copy is of the same or another document or page. (1976
Code § 3-344; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION; PROCUREMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Administration
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Procurement Procedures
1-8-4: Agreements; Council Approval
1-8-5: Emergency Purchases
1-8-6: Ethics In Public Contracting
1-8-7: Appeals
1-8-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Financial Officer: The town hereby establishes the position of
financial officer for the town to perform the duties authorized by this
chapter.
   B.   Approval Of Expenditures By Officer: The authorization contained in
this chapter is intended to include all town expenditures referenced in the
budget document and approved by an appropriation resolution adopted for the
current fiscal year. The financial officer is authorized to approve all
expenditures of funds by the town, provided all such expenditures are
authorized and/or obligated in accordance with the town's procurement
procedures (see section
1-8-3 of this chapter). The following items are considered approved by the town
council when they approve the appropriation budget. The financial officer is
authorized to obligate, encumber and expend funds for these items, provided
they are within the scope of each department's approved budget. No purchase
order is required for approval of these items:
      1.   Employee Compensation Expenditures: Employee compensation
expenditures such as payroll checks for employees with previously approved and
established salaries or hourly wages, other payments related to payroll,
including, but not limited to, payments or the deposit of federal and state
social security and income tax withholdings, payments to the state retirement
systems for retirement contributions and disability insurance, payments on
health insurance and other approved employee benefits, any checks for deposit
to employees' savings when withdrawn from their pay, and any employee selected
supplemental insurance.
      2.   Routine Expenditures: Routine expenditures such as utility bills,
bank credit payments (individual expenditures on credit cards must comply with
the town's procurement policies), payments on existing bonded indebtedness,
payments for services received from other governmental agencies such as, but
not limited to, payments for sewer services, for trash collection services,
payments for emergency dispatch services, and required payments to the state
for court fines and inspection fees.
      3.   Capital Expenditures: Capital expenditures when such payments are
made for previously authorized expenditures, including payments for supplies,
materials, equipment, infrastructure improvements and maintenance, and other
capital expenditures on approved contracts.
      4.   Miscellaneous Expenditures: Other miscellaneous expenditures,
including, but not limited to: payments to contract employees approved by the
town council; all insurance payments, including town risk management insurance,
worker's compensation insurance and state unemployment insurance benefits;
payments for the lease of vehicles and other equipment when such leases have
been previously approved by the town council; payments, advances and
reimbursements for authorized travel and training expenses of town officers and
employees when authorized by the town council.
   C.   Reports Of Financial Officer: The financial officer shall provide
periodic reports to the mayor and town council regarding expenditures approved
and payments made by the financial officer. The reports shall be at such times
and in the form designated by the mayor and town council. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-
1999)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   BUSINESS: Any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship,
joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.
   CHANGE ORDER: A written order signed by the financial officer directing the
contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of
the contract authorize the financial officer to order, without the consent of
the contractor, or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point,
rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity or other provisions of
any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
   CONTRACT: Any town agreement for the procurement or disposal of supplies,
services, real estate or construction.
   FINANCIAL OFFICER: The person duly authorized as town treasurer by the
governing body to enter into and administer contracts, make written
determinations with respect thereto, and to perform the other duties stated in
this chapter.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
   PERSON: Any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization
or group of individuals.
   PROCUREMENT: Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to
purchase or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, real estate or
construction.
   TOWN: Clarkston Town. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999; amd. Ord. 99-01A, 3-14-2002;
2003 Code)
1-8-3: PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Purpose: The underlying purposes of the procurement procedures are:
      1.   To ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to,
or do, conduct business with the town.
      2.   To provide for the greatest possible economy in the town procurement
activities.
      3.   To foster effective, broad based competition within the free
enterprise system to ensure that the town will receive the best possible
service or product at the lowest possible price.
   B.   Compliance Required; Exemption:
      1.   This policy shall not prevent the town from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
      2.   When procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance
funds, the town shall, as required, comply with applicable federal law
regulations.
   C.   Source Selection And Contract Formation:
      1.   Work Area Appropriation: No appropriation may be encumbered and no
expenditure may be made against any work area appropriation unless there is a
sufficient unencumbered balance in the department's appropriation, except in
cases of emergency as provided by this chapter.
      2.   Outstanding Encumbrances: All encumbrances designated as outstanding
as of the end of the fiscal year shall be evidenced by a purchase order issued
on or before the last day of the fiscal year and approved by the mayor and town
council.
      3.   Purchases Made According To Purchasing Procedures: All purchases or
encumbrances of such purchases by the town shall be made or incurred according
to the purchasing procedures established by this chapter and applicable state
law.
      4.   No Expenditures Made In Excess: No expenditures or encumbrances
shall be made in excess of the total appropriations for any work area in the
budget as adopted or subsequently amended. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999)
      5.   Purchases Less Than One Thousand Dollars:
         a.   For small purchases of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less,
authorized personnel desiring to make purchases do not need to obtain bids and
may purchase the items without any formal approval procedure. Authorized
purchases of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less do require a purchase order.
         b.   Small purchases in excess of one hundred dollars ($100.00) but
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) do not require bids of any type but
do require a purchase order and preapproval from a member of the town council,
before proceeding with the purchase.
      6.   Purchases Of One Thousand Dollars Or More:
         a.   Purchases of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more shall
require bids prior to obligation of funds. For purchases in excess of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) the department head, before requesting bids, shall
submit a purchase order to the town clerk for determination that the purchase
would be within the department's budget. Upon approval of the purchase order by
the town clerk, the purchase order and the town clerk's statement of approval
shall be submitted to the financial officer, who will then submit the statement
to the governing body, who may then approve or disapprove the purchase.
         b.   Following approval of the governing body, purchases of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more shall be submitted for bids prior to
obligation of funds, except as provided in subsection C6b(4) of this section.
            (1)   At least three (3) bids shall be required for purchases from
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), and must
be authorized by the town council. A purchase order is required.
            (2)   Sealed bids shall be required for all purchases in excess of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). The town council must authorize purchases
from bids of more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). The purchase shall
not be divided so as to constitute a small purchase under this section.
            (3)   Purchase orders are required for all purchases. Clarkston
Town will not be required to reimburse any individual, who spends their own
money on town purchases, and fails to get a purchase order. (Res. 11-07, 3-22-
2011)
            (4)   Contracts for public improvements with an estimated cost in
excess of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated section 10-7-20, as amended, as it currently exists, or as
it hereafter may be modified. (Ord. 99-01A, 3-14-2002)
            (5)   The procurement of services is exempt. No bids or purchase
orders are required for the procurement of services; however, the purchasing
agent must contact a member of the town council, prior to the procurement of
services, to inform the member of the need to obtain services. (Res. 11-07, 3-
22-2011)
   D.   Bidding Procedures:
      1.   Sealed Bids: Bids or proposals shall be submitted sealed unless
specified otherwise.
      2.   Single Source: A purchase may be awarded without competition or
bidding when the work area supervisor and financial officer, with the approval
of the town council determine in writing that there is only one source for the
required service or item and the use of the sole source is allowed under
applicable law. In that event, bids will not be necessary but all other
procedures, as set forth in this chapter, shall be followed.
      3.   Invitation For Bids; Notice: An invitation for bids shall be issued
when a contract is to be awarded by competitive sealed bidding or sealed
proposals. The invitation shall include a purchase description and all
contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement. Public notice
of the invitation for bids shall be given at least fourteen (14) days prior to
the date set forth therein for the opening of bids. The notice may include
publication in a newspaper of general circulation and shall be so published
when and as required by law.
      4.   Minimum Number Issued: In all instances, the request for bids/
proposals shall be issued to at least three (3) separate vendor/sources, if
reasonable and possible.
      5.   Specifications In Notice: Each request for notice of, or
advertisement regarding, bids/proposals shall set forth specifications for the
item or service to be purchased. A copy of such request, notice or
advertisement shall be maintained in the office of the town clerk as well as
with the department head.
      6.   Receipt Of Bids; Opening: Sealed bids/proposals shall be received
and held by the financial officer who shall indicate on the bids the date and
the time of the receipt of such bids. Sealed bids/proposals shall be opened at
the time and place as specified in the bid notice request and shall be opened
in the presence of at least two (2) of the following town officials: the
financial officer, mayor, department head or the town treasurer. The amount of
each bid and any other relevant information, together with the name of each
bidder, shall be recorded. The record and each bid shall be open to public
inspection.
      7.   Contracts; Compliance Required: All sealed bids for contracts shall
be made in compliance with this chapter.
      8.   Construction Contracts: All notices of or requests for bidding on
construction contracts shall specify requirements for a performance bond and
payment bond in compliance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated sections
14-1-18, 14-1-19, 63-56-38 and 63-56-39, as amended.
      9.   Bid Security: A bid security in an amount equal to at least five
percent (5%) of the amount bid shall be required for all sealed bidding for
construction contracts and shall be in the form of a bond provided by a surety
company authorized to do business in the state, the equivalent in cash, or any
other form satisfactory to the town.
      10.   Failure To Comply With Security Requirement: If a bidder fails to
comply with the requirement for bid security, the bid may be rejected, unless
it is determined that the failure to comply with the security requirement is
nonsubstantial.
      11.   Irrevocable After Opening: After all bids are open, such bids shall
be irrevocable for the period specified in the invitation or request for bids.
However, if the bidder is permitted to withdraw a bid before the award, no
action shall be taken against the bidder or the bid security.
      12.   Cost Plus Percentage Prohibited: "Cost plus a percentage of cost"
contracts are prohibited. Subject to the limitations of this section, any type
of contract that will promote the best interests of the town may be used;
provided, that the use of a cost plus a percentage of cost contract is
prohibited. A cost reimbursement contract may be used only when a determination
is made that such a contract is likely to be less costly to the town than any
other type or that it is impracticable to obtain the supplies, services or
construction required except under such a contract. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999)
      13.   Required Contract Clauses: The following clauses shall be required
on all contracts: (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
         a.   The unilateral right of the town to order, in writing, changes in
the work within the scope of the contract and changes in the time of
performance of the contract that do not alter the scope of the contract work.
         b.   How the contract resolves variations occurring between estimated
quantities of work in a contract and actual quantities.
         c.   How suspension of work can be ordered by the town.
      14.   All bids/proposals received, together with proof of advertisement
by publication or otherwise, shall be maintained by the town auditor for a
period of at least three (3) years following the award of any contract pursuant
to such bids/proposals and for three (3) years following the date of first
advertisement or publication of the notice for such bids/proposals in the event
that all bids/proposals pursuant to that notice as advertised are rejected.
      15.   Recording: All bids/proposals shall be recorded as to the name of
the bidder, the amount of the bid, compliance with the bid notice and request,
and such record shall be submitted to the approving authority for confirmation
and award of bid as required by this chapter.
      16.   Rejection: The town shall at all times and in all bidding
circumstances reserve the right to reject any an all bids/proposals with or
without cause.
   E.   Exemptions From Bidding Procedure: All purchases which are exempt from
bidding procedures may be authorized and funds obligated by the approving
authority, provided the expenditures are within the budget appropriation. The
financial officer may approve individual purchases greater than eight thousand
dollars ($8,000.00) under those exempt from bidding provisions only when the
purchase was approved as a specific line item in the budget, otherwise,
authorization shall be obtained as required by this chapter. The following
purchases shall be exempt from bidding requirements:
      1.   Purchases from any federal or state agency, including, but not
limited to, state central stores, surplus sources or state approved contract
lists.
      2.   Salaries and benefits for town employees.
      3.   Utilities, including gas, electric, water, sewer, solid waste and
telephone.
      4.   Ongoing contracts which have been provided for in the town's budget,
such as, but not limited to, lease purchase agreements, land purchase
agreements and otherwise.
      5.   Seminars, training and conferences for town employees, officers or
authorized representatives.
      6.   Reimbursement for travel costs, and expenses incurred by town
employees, officers and authorized representatives.
      7.   Fuel purchases, which may be bid on an annual basis rather than on a
purchase by purchase basis.
      8.   Items to be acquired from sole source; providing, that there is
written documentation that there is only one source for the required items.
      9.   Interlocal agreements.
      10.   Professional services such as legal, auditing, accounting,
engineering, consulting and other similar services; provided however, that
sealed proposals may be requested each three (3) years, or as conditions may
warrant, on such services at the discretion of the town council.
   F.   Financial Officer's Duties In Procurement Process:
      1.   The financial officer is appointed by the town to control and
expedite town purchasing. His/her duties and powers are set forth in this
chapter.
      2.   The financial officer shall provide any assistance requested by town
personnel desiring to make purchases with respect to bid preparation, actual
purchases, delivery, installation and monitoring the performance of any
purchase related agreements. The financial officer shall involve town personnel
as may be reasonably necessary in the purchase process.
      3.   The financial officer, upon receipt of the general specifications
prepared by town personnel and the request for bid, together with other related
information, will typically, unless instructed otherwise:
         a.   Review the documents as submitted.
         b.   Make comparisons to other sources for the same items or services.
         c.   Prepare the bid document.
         d.   Contact potential bidders for bids.
         e.   Determine if purchases could be made jointly with other work
areas in order to obtain better prices and terms.
         f.   Receive bids and confirm adherence to the specifications of the
bid request and clarify any questions concerning the bid.
         g.   Submit any proposed agreements or leases to an attorney for a
legal opinion.
         h.   Make recommendations to the department head, the mayor and to the
town council. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999)
1-8-4: AGREEMENTS; COUNCIL APPROVAL:
No agreement, lease purchase or lease may be made or entered into without the
approval of the town council. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999)
1-8-5: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
Under emergency conditions, where there exists a threat to public health,
welfare, safety or property, the financial officer, or in his/her absence the
mayor or member of town council, or in the inability to contact any of those
individuals, the department head in charge of the affected area, may make or
authorize an emergency procurement, beyond his/her authority, with or without
bids. However, any emergency procurement shall be made with as much competition
as practical under the circumstances. A written determination of the basis for
the emergency and for the selection of the particular vendor/contractor for the
purchase shall be submitted thereafter by the individual authorizing
procurement, to the mayor and town council to be reviewed and the emergency
confirmed. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999)
1-8-6: ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING:
   A.   No person shall make procurement decisions that will create a
substantial conflict between their private interests and their public duties.
Compliance shall be in accordance with Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-1301
through 10-3-1312, as amended, as it currently exists or as it hereafter may be
modified.
   B.   No person involved in making procurement decisions for the town shall
ask, receive or offer to receive any emolument, gratuity, contribution, cash,
gift, property, service, loan or reward of any kind, or any promise thereof,
either for the person's own use, or the use or benefit of any other person or
organization, from any person or organization interested in or attempting to
sell property or services to or otherwise do business with the town. Any
violation of this section shall be prosecuted under and punished as provided by
Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999)
1-8-7: APPEALS:
Any actual or prospective bidder or contractor who is aggrieved in connection
with the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal to the town council. An
appeal shall be submitted in writing within five (5) working days after the
contract to which the grievance relates is awarded. No appeal may be taken in
connection with purchases involving less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00), nor in the event all bids are rejected by the town. The town
council's decision shall be final. (Ord. 99-01, 2-5-1999)
CHAPTER 9
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose
1-9-2: Scope
1-9-3: Existing Law Continued
1-9-4: Criminal Liability And Prosecution
1-9-5: Severability
1-9-6: No Tort Liability
1-9-7: Acts Include Causing, Aiding And Abetting
1-9-8: General Enforcement Authority
1-9-9: Withholding And Revocation Of Permits And Licenses
1-9-10: Notice of Violation
1-9-11: Civil Citation
1-9-12: Civil Fees
1-9-13: Recording
1-9-14: Inspections
1-9-15: Notice Of Compliance
1-9-16: Abatement
1-9-16-1: Authority To Abate
1-9-16-2: Procedure For Abatement
1-9-17: Service Requirements
1-9-18: Request For An Administrative Hearing
1-9-19: Appointment Of Hearing Examiner
1-9-20: Procedures At Administrative Meetings
1-9-21: Administrative Enforcement Order
1-9-22: Appeal To District Court
1-9-23: Collection Of Civil Fines And Costs
1-9-1: PURPOSE:
The Town Council finds that the enforcement of the Town's ordinances and
applicable state codes is an important public activity. Code enforcement is
vital to the protection of the public's health, safety, welfare, and quality of
life. The Town council recognizes that code enforcement is effective only when
done quickly and fairly. The Town council further finds that an enforcement
system that allows a combination of judicial and administrative remedies is
effective in correcting violations. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this Chapter may be applied to all violations of the Town
Code, and any other Town ordinances or applicable state codes, which occur
within Town limits and such territory outside Town limits over which the Town
has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional provision, law, or
interlocal agreement. This Chapter establishes an additional remedy that may be
used by the Town to achieve compliance with applicable ordinances and codes.
(Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-3: EXISTING LAW CONTINUED:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not invalidate any other title, chapter,
or ordinance of the Town or this Code, but shall be read in conjunction with
those titles, chapters, and ordinances and may be used as an additional remedy
for enforcement of violations thereof. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-4: CRIMINAL LIABILITY AND PROSECUTION:
Any person, firm, entity or corporation, whether as principal, agent, or
employee, who violates or causes the violation of any of the provisions of the
Code, and any other Town ordinances or applicable state codes, shall be guilty
of an infraction and subject to the following penalties:
   A.   Each day of violation shall be a separate infraction and offense.
   B.   The first violation shall have a fine not to exceed one hundred and
fifty dollars ($150.00);
   C.   The second violation shall have a fine not to exceed two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250.00);
   D.   The third violation shall have a fine not to exceed three hundred and
fifty dollars ($350.00).
   E.   All violations thereafter shall have a fine not to exceed seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) and all other penalties allowed by the Utah Code
for infractions.
The officers, partners, directors, managers and members of an entity shall be
responsible for the acts committed by that entity. Entities and individuals
shall be responsible for the acts of their agents committed in violation of
this Code if they had knowledge of the act committed, and the owner of the
property is presumed to have knowledge of the uses of that property and
improvements made to it.
The Town shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or
criminal judicial case or pursue an administrative enforcement action for the
violation of this Code or any of its ordinances or applicable code
requirements. The enactment of this Chapter shall not be construed to limit the
Town's right to prosecute any violation as a criminal offense. If the Town
chooses to file both an administrative action and criminal charges for the same
violation, all other remedies contained herein shall be available. (Ord. 23-01,
1-3-2023)
1-9-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of
this Chapter is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter. The Town council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this Chapter and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions, or
provisions be declared invalid or unconstitutional. This section shall apply to
all amendments made to this Code or Chapter. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-6: NO TORT LIABILITY:
By establishing performance standards or by establishing obligations to act, it
is the intent of the Town council that Town employees and officers are
exercising discretionary authority in pursuit of an essential governmental
function and that any such standards or obligations shall not be construed as
creating a ministerial duty for purposes of tort liability. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-
2023)
1-9-7: ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING:
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Code, it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding, or abetting such act or omission. (Ord. 23-01, 1-
3-2023)
1-9-8: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
Whenever the Zoning Administrator or other enforcement official authorized by
the Town finds that a violation of this Code or other Town ordinances and
applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, he or she may
undertake any of the procedures herein. The Zoning Administrator or any
designated enforcement official shall have the authority to gain compliance
with the provisions of the Code and other Town ordinances and applicable state
codes subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Such authority shall include
the power to:
   A.   Withhold permits and licenses;
   B.   Issue Notices of Violation;
   C.   Abate nuisances or violations on public and private property; and
   D.   Use any other remedy available under this Chapter or as otherwise
available in law or equity. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-9: WITHHOLDING AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND LICENSES:
The Town may withhold and revoke a building permit, business license, or any
other permit or license related to any property on which a condition exists
that violates any provision of this Code or any other Town ordinance or state
code until such time as the condition is cured and a Notice of Compliance has
been issued by the Town. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-10: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of the
Code, Town ordinances, or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to
exist, a Notice of Violation may be issued to the responsible person. The
Notice of Violation shall include the following information:
      1.   Name of the responsible person;
      2.   Street address of violation;
      3.   Date of violation;
      4.   All code sections violated and a description of the condition that
violates the applicable code;
      5.   All remedial action required to permanently correct any violation,
which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal, or other
appropriate action;
      6.   Specific date to correct the violation set forth in a notice of
violation, which date shall be at least ten (10) days from the date of service;
      7.   Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail
to comply with the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of
violation, which may include, but is not limited to, criminal prosecution,
withholding or revocation of permits or licenses, civil fees, recordation of
the notice of violation, abatement of the violation, recovery of costs and
administrative fees, and any other legal remedies;
      8.   Statement that civil fees will begin to accrue immediately upon
failure to comply by expiration of the date to correct violation;
      9.   The amount of the civil fee for each violation and a statement that
the civil fee shall accrue daily until the violation is corrected;
      10.   Demand that the responsible person cease and desist from further
action causing the violation and commence and complete all action to correct
violations as directed by the Town;
      11.   Procedures to request an Administrative Hearing and consequences if
no request for a hearing is made; and
      12.   Statement that when the violation is brought into compliance the
responsible person must notify the Zoning Administrator and request an
inspection.
   B.   The Notice of Violation shall be served by one of the methods of
service listed in this Chapter.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with
the terms and deadlines set forth in a Notice of Violation. A violation of this
subsection shall be an infraction.
   D.   A responsible person who has received a Notice of Violation shall have
the right to an Administrative Hearing. A request for such hearing shall be in
writing and shall be filed with the Town Recorder within ten (10) days from the
date of service of the Notice of Violation. Failure to request an
Administrative Hearing as provided herein shall constitute a waiver to an
Administrative Hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-
2023)
1-9-11: CIVIL CITATION:
   A.   Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of the
Code, Town ordinances, or applicable state code has occurred or continues to
exist a Civil Citation may be issued to the responsible person. Civil Citations
may not be used for violations of a land use regulation or nuisance ordinance.
The Civil Citation shall include the following information:
      1.   Name of the responsible person;
      2.   Street address of violation;
      3.   Date of violation;
      4.   All code sections violated and a description of the condition that
violates the applicable code;
      5.   The amount of the civil fee for each violation;
      6.   Explanation that the civil fee must be paid within fifteen (15) days
of the date of the Civil Citation;
      7.   Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail
to timely pay the civil fee, which may include, but is not limited to,
incurring interest and late penalties, recovery of costs and administrative
fees, and any other legal remedies; and
      8.   Procedures to request an Administrative Hearing and consequences if
no request for a hearing is made.
   B.   The Civil Citation shall be served by one of the methods of service
listed in this Chapter.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to timely pay
the civil fee imposed by a Civil Citation. A violation of this subsection shall
be an infraction.
   D.   A responsible person who has received a Civil Citation shall have the
right to an Administrative Hearing. A request for such hearing shall be in
writing and shall be filed with the Town Recorder within ten (10) days from the
date of service of the Civil Citation. Failure to request an Administrative
Hearing as provided herein shall constitute a waiver to an Administrative
Hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-12: CIVIL FEES:
   A.   If a responsible person fails to correct a violation by the correction
date listed in a Notice of Violation, the responsible person shall pay the
following civil fees to the Town within 15 days:
      1.   The civil fee for each violation shall be one hundred dollars
($100).
      2.   Thereafter, there shall be an additional civil fee of one hundred
dollars ($100) for each subsequent day of violation until the violation is
corrected.
      3.   Payment of any civil fee shall not excuse any failure to correct a
violation or the reoccurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further
enforcement action by the Town.
   B.   Civil Citations must impose the civil fees as set forth in the fee
schedule set by the Town Council by resolution. If a violation is not on the
fee schedule, then the default for a civil fee for a Civil Citation shall be
twenty-five dollars ($25). A responsible person who receives a Civil Citation
shall pay the amount of the civil fees imposed by the Civil Citation within
fifteen (15) days of the date of the Civil Citation. If the civil fees imposed
in a Civil Citation are not paid within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
Civil Citation, then a late penalty of twenty-five dollars ($25) shall be
assessed and the fee amounts shall incur interest at ten percent (10%) per
annum until paid. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-13: RECORDING:
   A.   When a Notice of Violation has been served on a responsible person, and
the violation remains uncorrected after the date to correct set forth in the
Notice of Violation, and a request for an Administrative Hearing has not been
timely requested, the Zoning Administrator, or any other person designated by
the Town under this Chapter, may record the Notice of Violation with the Cache
County Recorder's Office.
   B.   If an Administrative Hearing is held, and an Administrative Enforcement
Order is issued, the Zoning Administrator, or any other person designated by
the Town under this Chapter, shall record the Administrative Enforcement Order
with the Cache County Recorder's Office.
   C.   The recordation of an Administrative Enforcement Order shall not be
deemed an encumbrance of or lien against the property but shall merely provide
public notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.
   D.   Notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and
the property owner pursuant to any of the methods of service provided in this
Chapter. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-14: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the responsible person to request an inspection by the
Zoning Administrator when a violation noted on a Notice of Violation has been
corrected. If no inspection is requested, it shall be deemed prima facie
evidence that the violation remains uncorrected. If more than one inspection is
necessary, an inspection fee of thirty dollars ($30) shall be assessed for each
subsequent inspection. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-15: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   When a violation noted on a Notice of Violation is corrected, a
responsible person shall request an inspection from the Zoning Administrator.
   B.   When the Zoning Administrator receives such request, the Zoning
Administrator shall reinspect the property as soon as practicable to determine
whether the violation has been corrected, and whether all necessary permits
have been issued and final inspections have been performed as required by
applicable codes.
   C.   The Zoning Administrator shall serve a Notice of Compliance to the
responsible person and property owner if the Zoning Administrator determines
that:
      1.   All violations listed in the Notice of Violation or Administrative
Enforcement Order have been corrected;
      2.   All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
      3.   All assessed civil fees have been paid; and
      4.   All assessed administrative fees and costs have been paid. (Ord. 23-
01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-16: ABATEMENT:
1-9-16-1: AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
The Zoning Administrator, or any other person designated by the Town under this
Chapter, is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate a
violation of this Code, Town ordinances, and applicable state codes. The Zoning
Administrator shall assess all costs for abatement to the responsible person
and may use any remedy available under this Code or by law to collect such
costs. If additional abatement is necessary within two (2) years, treble costs
shall be assessed against the responsible person for the actual abatement.
(Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-16-2: PROCEDURE FOR ABATEMENT:
   A.   Violations may be abated after service of a Notice of Violation under
this Chapter.
   B.   The violation may be abated by Town personnel or by a private
contractor acting under the direction of the Town. Town personnel or a private
contractor may enter upon private property in a reasonable manner to abate a
violation as specified in the Notice of Violation.
   C.   If a responsible person abates the violation before the Town abates the
violation pursuant to a Notice of Violation, the Zoning Administrator may
nevertheless assess all costs actually incurred by the Town against the
responsible person.
   D.   When abatement is completed, the Zoning Administrator shall prepare a
Notice of Itemized Bill for Costs.
   E.   The Zoning Administrator shall serve the Notice of Itemized Bill for
Costs by certified mail or personal delivery to the last known address of the
responsible person or to the owner of record of the property on which the
abatement took place. The notice shall demand full payment within thirty (30)
days to the Town Recorder.
   F.   The responsible person shall have the right to an Administrative
Hearing to contest the Notice of Itemized Bill for Costs. A request for such
hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Town Recorder within
ten (10) days from the date of service of the Notice of Itemized Bill for
Costs. Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver to
such hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-17: SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Whenever a notice is required to be given under this Chapter, the
notice shall be served by one of the following methods, unless different
provisions are otherwise specifically stated to apply:
      1.   Personal service;
      2.   Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a
responsible person or record owner of the property on which a violation exists;
      3.   Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property; or
      4.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation.
   B.   Failure of a responsible person or record owner of the property to
actually receive notice shall not affect the validity of any action taken
hereunder if notice has been served in the manner set forth above.
   C.   Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed
served on the fourth day after the date of mailing. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-18: REQUEST FOR AN ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   A responsible person or record owner shall have the right to request an
Administrative Hearing if the request is filed within ten (10) calendar days
from the date of service of a Notice of Violation, Civil Citation, or a Notice
of Itemized Bill for Costs.
   B.   The request for an Administrative Hearing shall be made in writing and
submitted to the Town Recorder. The written request shall contain an
explanation of all theories for relief the responsible person will put before
the hearing examiner.
   C.   As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the
request for an Administrative Hearing, the appointed hearing examiner shall
schedule a date, time and place for the Administrative Hearing and shall
provide notice of the same to the responsible person who made the request for
an Administrative Hearing. The Town may submit a written response to the
hearing examiner that provides the Town's position on each theory for relief
asserted by the responsible person.
   D.   Failure to request an Administrative Hearing within ten (10) calendar
days from the date of service of any of the notices in subsection (A) above
shall constitute a waiver of the right to an Administrative Hearing and the
right to an appeal. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-19: APPOINTMENT OF HEARING EXAMINER:
The Mayor or his designee shall appoint hearing examiners to preside at
Administrative Hearings. The hearing examiner shall have no personal or
financial interest in the matter and may be an employee of the Town. (Ord. 23-
01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-20: PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE MEETINGS:
   A.   Administrative enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in
nature. Formal rules of evidence and discovery shall not apply.
   B.   The Town shall bear the burden of proof to establish the existence of a
violation of the Code, Town ordinance, or applicable state codes.
   C.   Such proof shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
   D.   Each party shall have the opportunity to present evidence in support of
the party's case.
   E.   All Administrative Hearings shall be held in accordance with the Utah
Open and Public Meetings Act. In the discretion of the hearing examiner,
Administrative Hearings may be held at the location of the violation.
   F.   The responsible person shall have the right to be represented by an
attorney. If an attorney will be representing a responsible person at a
hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and telephone number shall be
given to the Town at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing. If such notice
is not given, the hearing may be continued at the Town's request, and all costs
of the continuance shall be assessed to the responsible person.
   G.   The burden to prove any raised defenses shall be upon the party raising
any such defense.
   H.   A responsible person who fails to appear at an Administrative Hearing
shall be deemed to have waived the right to such hearing, the adjudication of
issues related to the hearing, and the right to appeal. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-21: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:
   A.   A responsible person and the Town may enter into a stipulated
agreement, which shall be signed by both parties. Such agreement shall be
entered as an Administrative Enforcement Order. Entry of such agreement shall
constitute a waiver of the right to an Administrative Hearing and the right to
appeal.
   B.   After all evidence is presented, the hearing examiner shall issue a
written Administrative Enforcement Order that affirms or rejects the Notice of
Violation, Civil Citation, or Notice of Itemized Bill for Costs. As part of an
Administrative Enforcement Order, a hearing examiner may establish specific
deadlines for the payment of fees and costs, and condition the total or partial
assessment of civil fees on the responsible person's ability to take necessary
corrective actions by specified deadlines
   C.   For hearings held on a Notice of Violation or a Notice of Itemized Bill
for Costs:
      1.   A hearing examiner may issue an Administrative Enforcement Order
that requires a responsible person to cease from violating the Code, Town
ordinances, or applicable state codes and to take any necessary corrective
action noted in the Notice of Violation.
      2.   A hearing examiner may enter an order confirming the Town's right to
enter the property and abate all violations, including the removal of animals
in violation of an applicable code requirement.
      3.   A hearing examiner may issue an Administrative Enforcement Order
imposing civil fees, and the Order may provide that such fees shall continue to
accrue until the responsible person complies with the hearing examiner's
decision and corrects the violation.
      4.   A hearing examiner may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
necessary or as requested by the Town to ensure compliance with an
Administrative Enforcement Order.
   J.   An Administrative Enforcement Order shall become final on the date of
signing by a hearing examiner.
   K.   An Administrative Enforcement Order shall be served on all parties by
any one of the methods listed in this Chapter. When required by this Chapter,
the Zoning Administrator, or any other person designed by the Town under this
Chapter, shall record the Administrative Enforcement Order with the Cache
County Recorder's Office.
   L.   It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with
the terms and deadlines set forth in an Administrative Enforcement Order. A
violation of this subsection shall be an infraction. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
1-9-22: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Any responsible person adversely affected by an Administrative
Enforcement Order made in the exercise of the provisions of this Chapter may
file a petition for review in the district court.
   B.   The petition shall be barred unless it is filed within 30 days after
the Administrative Enforcement Order is final.
   C.   In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the Administrative
Enforcement order was arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   D.   The court shall:
      1.   Presume that the Administrative Enforcement Order is valid;
      2.   Review the record to determine whether the Order was arbitrary,
capricious, or illegal; and
      3.   Affirm the Administrative Enforcement Order if it is supported by
substantial evidence in the record.
   E.   The record of the proceedings including minutes, findings, orders and,
if available, a true and correct transcript of the proceeding shall be
transmitted to the reviewing court. If the proceeding was tape recorded, a
transcript of such tape recording shall be deemed a true and correct transcript
for purposes of this subsection.
   F.   If there is a record, court review shall be limited to the record of
the proceeding. The court may not accept or consider any evidence outside such
record unless that evidence was offered to the hearing examiner. The court may
call witnesses and take evidence if there is no record.
   G.   The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an Administrative
Enforcement Order. Before filing a petition, a responsible person may request
the hearing examiner to stay an Administrative Enforcement Order. Upon receipt
of a request to stay, the hearing examiner may order the Administrative
Enforcement Order to be stayed pending district court review if the hearing
examiner finds such stay to be in the best interest of the Town. (Ord. 23-01,
1-3-2023)
1-9-23: COLLECTION OF CIVIL FINES AND COSTS:
If a responsible person fails to make payment to the Town of any amount owed
under this Chapter within the timeframe set forth in the Notice of Violation,
Civil Citation, Notice of Itemized Bill of Costs, or the Administrative
Enforcement Order, the Town may collect the amount owed in any one or more of
the following ways:
   A.   Referring the matter to a collection agency;
   B.   Instituting a civil action to collect the amount owed;
   C.   Recording a lien on the property that is the subject of the Code
violations or fines imposed pursuant to the notice and recording procedures
outlined in the Utah Code Ann. § 38-12-101, et seq.; and
   D.   Any other manner provided by law for the collection of debts.
All costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the Town in collecting any
amounts due and owing under this Chapter shall be paid by the responsible
person. (Ord. 23-01, 1-3-2023)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Reserved
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Title
3-1-2: Purpose
3-1-3: Definitions
3-1-4: Business License Required; Exemption
3-1-5: Fee For License; Exemption
3-1-6: Inspections
3-1-7: Revocation Or Denial
3-1-8: Violations; Complaint
3-1-9: Penalty
3-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the BUSINESS LICENSE ORDINANCE OF CLARKSTON,
UTAH, and may be so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 98-01, 2-6-1998; amd. Ord. 18-01,
2-20-2018)
3-1-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the Town. (Ord. 98-01, 2-6-1998; amd. Ord. 18-01, 2-20-
2018)
3-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   BUSINESS: Means and includes all enterprises engaged in within the Town
carried on for and with the intent of continuous gain and/or profit.
   CONTRACTOR: Means and includes anyone defined as a "contractor" in Utah Code
Annotated section 58-55-102 of the Utah Construction Trades Licensing Act. Only
a contractor with its principal place of business within the Town limits shall
be required to obtain a license and pay the applicable fee as required in this
title.
   ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Means and includes, but is not limited to, the sale of
tangible personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods
or property, and rendering of personal services.
   HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation performed wholly within a residence, or the
yard and accessory buildings, being a part of such residence. Home occupations
shall not change the character of the residence or the residential
neighborhood. A business license is required for a home occupation. The license
shall be issued for a one-year period and is renewable. The town council may
review a license in reaction to neighbors' complaints and may revoke it if
evidence warrants this action. Home occupation standards are as follows:
   A.   The exterior of the home will not be modified in any way to accommodate
the home occupation (i.e.. loading ramps. loading doors. etc.).
   B.   The occupation will be conducted entirely within the house, yard and
existing outbuildings.
   C.   The home occupation license covers only residents of the home.
   D.   No outside storage of goods or materials, refuse, waste materials or
apparatuses supporting the business is permitted.
   E.   Pedestrian and vehicular traffic will not be in excess of what is that
normally associated with a residential neighborhood.
   F.   One sign will be permitted on the property. The sign must be approved
by the town council. The town council may review the sign in reaction to
neighbors' complaints and require its removal or modification if evidence
warrants this action.
   G.   The home occupation must be operated in full conformity with fire,
health, building, electrical and plumbing codes, and all state and town laws
and ordinances.
   H.   No noise, odor, light, vibrations or dust, in excess of that normally
associated with a residential neighborhood, shall pass beyond the premises.
   l.   State licenses will be required for "professional childcare".
   J.   "Home occupation" shall include the care of not more than five (5)
children other than members of the family residing in the dwelling. A home
occupation in a multiple-dwelling unit (2 or more units) will be considered as
one of the units in determining the allowable number of units.
   SOLICITOR, PEDDLER AND TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person selling, offering for
sale, or taking orders for merchandise door to door within the Town.
Merchandise shall include goods, food, wares, photographs, subscriptions to any
kind of publication, insurance, tickets or coupons representing value. The term
"solicitor" includes, but is not limited to, photographers, sellers of
magazines, cosmetics, home care products, etc., and any other person engaged in
direct sales, but specifically excludes newspaper carriers.
   TOWN OR MUNICIPALITY: The Municipality of Clarkston Town, Utah. (Ord. 98-01,
2-6-1998; amd. Ord.01-04, 1-7-2002; 2003 Code; Ord. 17-10, 11-7-2017; Ord. 18-
01, 2-20-2018)
3-1-4: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTION:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided herein, it is unlawful for any person to
engage in any business within the Town without a current and valid business
license issued pursuant to this Title. A separate business license must be
obtained for each type of "business" defined herein and for the place of
business. Each day of noncompliance with this requirement constitutes a
separate violation under this Title. Additionally, before a business license
may be issued under this Title, an applicant for a business license must first
obtain a conditional use permit under Title 10 of the Town Code for the
operation of any business regardless of the zone in which it is operated.
   B.   Exemption: A business that is operated only occasionally and by an
individual who is under 18 years of age is exempt from the requirements of this
Title. (Ord. 18-01, 2-20-2018)
3-1-5: FEE FOR LICENSE; EXEMPTION:
   A.   Fee Schedule: There shall be a business license fee schedule in such
amounts as established by resolution of the Town Council. The license shall be
effective for the calendar year in which it is issued.
   B.   A business license fee may only be charged if the home occupation
business creates an impact on the surrounding community that is greater than
the impact the home would have without the business.
   C.   Renewal; Penalty: Renewals are due prior to January 31. If renewal
applications are not received in the Town office on or before March 31, a
penalty in such amount as established by resolution of the Town Council will be
assessed.
   D.   Exemption: No license fee shall be imposed on any person engaged in
business for solely religious, charitable, agricultural or other types of
strictly nonprofit purpose which is tax exempt in such activities under the
laws of the United States and the State. (Ord. 98-01, 2-6-1998; amd. Ord. 18-
01, 2-20-2018)
3-1-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   New Businesses: Prior to the issuance of a license to engage in a new
business not heretofore licensed, the applicant shall permit inspections to be
made of the prospective place of business if requested by the appropriate
department of the Town or other governmental agency to ensure compliance with
Building, Fire and Health Codes. No license shall be granted without the
approval of all such required inspections.
   B.   Existing Businesses; Violations: Existing places of business licensed
within the Town may be inspected periodically by departments of the Town for
compliance with Building, Fire and Health Codes. Written notice shall be given
by an authorized representative of the Town to a licensee upon the finding of
any Code infractions, which notice shall provide for a reasonable period, not
to exceed sixty (60) days, in which to correct such infractions, the failure of
which shall result in revocation of the license by authorized representatives
of the Town. (Ord. 98-01, 2-6-1998; amd. Ord. 18-01, 2-20-2018)
3-1-7: REVOCATION OR DENIAL:
   A.   Conditions: Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or of any ordinance of this Town may be revoked and any application
denied by the Town Council because of:
      1.   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this chapter or any ordinance of the Town.
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice Of Intent To Revoke Or Deny Renewal; Hearing:
      1.   Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of an application to
renew a business license, the licensee or applicant shall be given a notice
which shall state in substance that the Governing Body intends to revoke the
business license or deny the application to renew, together with the reason or
reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the Governing Body (which
shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice is
sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross-examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied. This administrative procedure shall be used in
connection with business license revocations or refusals to renew.
      2.   Subsection B1 of this section shall not apply to applications for
licenses for businesses which have not previously been licensed by the Town.
Such applicants need only be informed that their application has been denied.
(Ord. 98-01, 2-6-1998; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 18-01, 2-20-2018)
3-1-8: VIOLATIONS; COMPLAINT:
An authorized representative of the Town may request the Town Attorney to file
a complaint with the County Sheriff's Office against any person violating any
of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 98-01, 2-6-1998; amd. Ord. 18-01, 2-
20-2018)
3-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such violation exists shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 98-01, 2-6-1998; amd. 2003 Code; amd. Ord. 18-01, 2-20-
2018)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Beer Sales Prohibited
3-2-1: BEER SALES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer within this town. (1976 Code §
9-411)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: Permit Required
3-3-3: Application For Permit
3-3-4: Issuance Of Permit
3-3-5: Control Of Animal And Fowl Facilities
3-3-6: Existing Businesses And Facilities
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Offensive businesses", within the meaning of this chapter, shall include, but
not be limited to, packing houses, dairies, tanneries, canneries, renderies,
junk or salvage yards, bone factories, slaughter houses, butcher shops, soap
factories, foundries, breweries, distilleries, livery stables, blacksmith
shops, or any other enterprise or establishment which creates excessive odors,
fumes, smoke, gases or noises. (1976 Code § 10-241B)
3-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall commence or change the location of an offensive business or
establishment in or within one mile of the limits of the town without first
filing an application for a permit to do so with the town clerk. (1976 Code §
10-241A)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application for a permit shall specify the location at which the business
or establishment is to be operated and maintained or the new location to which
it is to be moved. The application shall describe the type of activity which
will be conducted and describe the manner in which the business or
establishment shall eliminate, control, or modify the emission by the business
of the undesirable odors, fumes, noises, and other noisome features and the
manner in which it shall be screened from public view, if its appearance is
offensive. (1976 Code § 10-241C)
3-3-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Report And Recommendation: The town clerk shall cause a study to be
made of the proposed business or relocation of any offensive business or
establishment by the county health department and by personnel engaged in the
inspection of buildings and other facilities. A report and recommendation shall
be made to the town council. The town council, after review, may grant to the
applicant an opportunity to be heard and present additional facts. Thereafter
the town council may: (1976 Code § 10-242; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Deny the application.
      2.   Recommend a modification thereof.
      3.   Grant a limited permit to enter into the business or make the change
of location subject to the requirement that the business or facility conform to
standards established by the town council with reference to controlling the
offensive features of the business.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: In the event a permit is granted, it shall be
subject to revocation either upon failure of the operator or owner to conduct
his business in the manner specified by the town council at the time of the
granting of the permit, or because a change of circumstances makes the
continued operation or maintenance of the business or facility a public
nuisance.
   C.   Modification Of Permit: The town council shall have power to revoke or
modify the permission to operate and maintain the business in such a manner as
it deems necessary for the public good. (1976 Code § 10-242)
3-3-5: CONTROL OF ANIMAL AND FOWL FACILITIES:
   A.   Location And Management: The town council shall have the power to
prohibit or control the location and management of any offensive, unwholesome
business or establishment in or within one mile of the town and may compel the
owner of any pigsty, privy, barn, corral, fur bearing animal farm, feed yard,
poultry farm, or other unwholesome or nauseous house or place to cleanse, abate
or remove the same.
   B.   Examination Of Operation: The town council may, on its own initiative
and shall, on complaint of a member of the public, examine the operation,
control or location of any business or facility for the purpose of determining
whether or not the operation of such business or facility should be improved so
as to minimize the offensive and unwholesome characteristics or whether the
business or activity should be moved or abated.
   C.   Notification Of Abatement: In the event that the town council decides
that the business or facility should be abated, removed or controlled, it shall
notify the owner or operator of the business or facility of such fact. (1976
Code § 10-244)
   D.   Hearing; Limited Permit: After a hearing, the town council may issue a
limited permit wherein it may prescribe the specifications and standard which
must be followed by the business or facility in order to be permitted to
continue in operation. (1976 Code § 10-244; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Abatement Or Removal: Upon a determination by the town council that the
business or facility is a nuisance, it shall have power to order the abatement
or removal of the facility or establishment. If the owner fails to conform to
such order, the town council shall have power to bring all necessary legal
proceedings to force removal, abatement or adherence to standards. (1976 Code §
10-244)
3-3-6: EXISTING BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Investigation By Town Council: The town council may require an
investigation of any existing offensive business or facility to determine
whether or not it should be permitted to remain in existence in or within one
mile of the town limits. If the town council determines that the continuation
of the business or facility has become a nuisance to persons situated within
the town limits or that ample control is not being exercised to minimize the
creation of excessive odors, fumes, smoke, gases, and noise, it shall notify
the owner or operator thereof that the town council is considering revoking or
modifying the operator's permit.
   B.   Conform To Standards And Specifications: If the town council decides to
require a modification of the manner in which the business or facility is to be
maintained, it shall specify the standards or specifications to which the
enterprise must conform or otherwise lose its permit to engage thereafter in
the business or activity. (1976 Code § 10-243; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Levy Of Tax
3-4-3: Rate
3-4-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption Therefrom
3-4-5: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
3-4-6: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of Tax
3-4-7: Interlocal Agreement For Collection Of Tax
3-4-8: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
   CUSTOMER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, "customer"
means the person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications
provider to pay for telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, "customer" means:
      1.   The person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received
under the contract; or
      2.   If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1.   Of telecommunications service; or
      2.   For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
   END USER: A. The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
   GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MUNICIPALITY: Those gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the
municipality for the purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah code title 59,
chapter 12, sales and use tax act and determined in accordance with Utah code
section 59-12-207.
   GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee, or charge:
      1.   Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2.   Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the transaction
with the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3.   Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under title 59, chapter 12, sales and use tax act; or
   C.   Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
   MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
   MUNICIPALITY: Town of Clarkston.
   PLACE OF PRIMARY USE: A. For telecommunications service other than mobile
telecommunications service, means the street address representative of where
the customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which
shall be:
      1.   The residential street address of the customer; or
      2.   The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
   SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection A is known, the location
of the telecommunications equipment:
      1.   To which a call is charged; and
      2.   From which the call originates or terminates;
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection B is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1.   The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2.   If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this
definition, "telecommunications provider" means a person that:
      1.   Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications service;
or
      2.   Engages in an activity described in subsection A of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
      1.   That person; or
      2.   The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates, or manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined
in Utah code section 54-8b-2.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A. Telephone service, as defined in Utah code
section 59-12-102, other than mobile telecommunications service, that
originates and terminates within the boundaries of this state; and
   B.   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah code section 59-
12-102:
      1.   That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state;
and
      2.   Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications
sourcing act, 4 USC section 116 et seq. (Ord. 04-07, 7-8-2004)
3-4-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to this municipality. (Ord.
04-07, 7-8-2004)
3-4-3: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be four percent (4%) of the telecommunication
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the municipality subject to the following: If the location of a transaction
is determined to be other than this municipality then the rate imposed on the
gross receipts for telecommunications services shall be the lower of: a) the
rate imposed by the taxing jurisdiction in which the transaction is located or
b) the rate for nonmobile telecommunication services shall be the rate imposed
by the municipality in which the customer's service address is located; or for
mobile telecommunications service, the rate imposed by the municipality of the
customer's primary place of use. (Ord. 04-07, 7-8-2004)
3-4-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION THEREFROM:
The rate of the tax levy shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunication service
attributed to the municipality unless a higher rate is approved by a majority
vote of the voters in this municipality that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 04-07, 7-8-2004)
3-4-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
This tax shall be levied beginning the earlier of July 1, 2004, or the first
day of any calendar quarter after a seventy five (75) day period beginning on
the date the commission received notice pursuant to Utah code section 10-1-403
that this municipality has enacted this chapter. (Ord. 04-07, 7-8-2004)
3-4-6: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF TAX:
This chapter is subject to the requirements of Utah code section 10-1-403. If
the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate notice
shall be given as provided in Utah code section 10-1-403. (Ord. 04-07, 7-8-
2004)
3-4-7: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
On or before the effective date hereof, the municipality shall enter into the
uniform interlocal agreement with the commission as described in Utah code
section 10-1-405 for the collection, enforcement, and administration of this
municipal telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 04-07, 7-8-2004)
3-4-8: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
Any tax or fee previously enacted by this municipality under authority of Utah
code section 10-1-203 or Utah code title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of
utilities limitation, is hereby repealed.
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal ordinance
or fee which provides that the municipality may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the municipality caused by
the activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the
municipality, if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah code section 72-7-
102 and is not related to the municipality's loss of use of a highway as a
result of the activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way,
or increased deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way nor does this chapter limit the
municipality's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to
the municipal telecommunications license tax under this chapter and locate
telecommunications facilities, as defined in Utah code section 72-7-108, in
this municipality. (Ord. 04-07, 7-8-2004)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE AND RESCUE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Created
4-1-2: Chief And Assistant Chiefs
4-1-3: Volunteers; Employees
4-1-4: Emergency Vehicles
4-1-5: Removal Of Obstructions At Fire
4-1-6: Control Of Persons
4-1-7: Interference
4-1-8: Investigation After Fire Report
4-1-9: Right To Enter Upon And Inspect Premises
4-1-10: Persons Present At Fire Subject To Orders
4-1-11: False Alarm
4-1-12: Penalty
4-1-1: CREATED:
There is created a fire and rescue department to be known as the Clarkston Town
volunteer fire and rescue department. The Clarkston Town fire and rescue
department members will consist of all volunteer firefighters and emergency
personnel. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-2: CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CHIEFS:
   A.   Positions Created: There is created the position of chief of the fire
and rescue department. There is created two (2) positions of assistant chief of
the fire and rescue department, who will be second in command to the chief.
   B.   Powers And Duties Of Chief:
      1.   The chief shall have the responsibility for the general supervision
of the department.
      2.   During a fire or emergency, the chief shall have full authority to
take all measures as he shall deem necessary, subject to state law, to control
and extinguish the fire or control an emergency and for that purpose he is made
a special peace officer.
      3.   The chief shall at least quarterly report to the governing body the
condition of the fire and emergency equipment, the number of fires and
emergencies and other incidents and their causes and the estimated loss
therefrom, together with such other information as the governing body may
request or as he shall deem appropriate without violation of confidentiality in
emergency incidents.
      4.   The chief shall strictly enforce all of the provisions of the
ordinances of this municipality relating to the protection against and
prevention of fire.
      5.   The chief shall maintain the equipment of the department in good
repair and order and ready for use.
      6.   The chief, subject to the approval of the mayor and governing body,
shall establish rules and regulations for the operation of the department.
      7.   The chief may delegate his duties to any person employed by the
department capable of performing the duty to be delegated, but such delegation
shall not relieve the chief of his responsibility for the performance thereof.
      8.   The chief or his designated officer shall cause all fires to be
promptly investigated to determine the cause of the fire and report the cause
of the fire, the time originated and such other information as may be relevant
to prevent other fires.
   C.   Powers And Duties Of Assistant Chiefs: The chief, subject to the
approval of the mayor and governing body, shall define the duties and
responsibilities of each assistant chief in the fire and rescue department
rules and regulations. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-3: VOLUNTEERS; EMPLOYEES:
The chief may make recommendations to the mayor or council member in charge
relating to the volunteer or employment of firefighters, first responders,
emergency medical technicians and such other personnel as may be necessary to
perform and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The chief may employ such
additional personnel as the mayor and governing body may direct or authorize.
(Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-4: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Fire trucks are designated authorized emergency vehicles. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-
2001)
4-1-5: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS AT FIRE:
The officer in charge of any fire may order the removal or destruction of any
fence, building or structure, or that any utility be closed, cut or removed
when deemed necessary to control, extinguish or prevent the spread of fire.
(Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-6: CONTROL OF PERSONS:
All persons present at a fire or emergency shall obey the orders of any
firefighters. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-7: INTERFERENCE:
   A.   Firefighters Or Emergency Personnel: Every person at the scene of any
fire or emergency who disobeys the lawful orders of any public officer or
firefighter, or offers any resistance to or interference with the efforts of
any firefighter, emergency personnel or company of firefighters to extinguish a
fire or respond to an emergency, or engages in any disorderly conduct
calculated to prevent the fire from being extinguished or an adequate response
to an emergency being given, or who forbids, prevents or dissuades others from
assisting to extinguish or respond to the same, is guilty of an infraction, and
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Officers, Apparatus, Water, Etc.: Any person who shall wilfully hinder
any officer or member of the fire and rescue department in the discharge of
his/her duties at a fire or emergency scene, or in any manner injures, defaces
or destroys any engine, hose or other fire or emergency apparatus belonging to
the municipality, or who shall interfere with any fire and rescue company or
person, or who shall wilfully break or injure any water pipe, or interfere with
the water or its source of supply, shall be deemed guilty of a class B
misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-8: INVESTIGATION AFTER FIRE REPORT:
The chief, or other such persons as he shall designate, shall, after
extinguishing a fire, make a prompt and thorough investigation of the cause of
the fire, the time the fire began, the amount of loss and insurance, a
description of the affected buildings and premises, and shall secure all other
useful information available, and record the same in a record book kept for
that purpose in the office of the department and shall report the same to the
governing body at such time as it may direct. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-9: RIGHT TO ENTER UPON AND INSPECT PREMISES:
The fire chief or his deputies, upon presentation of proper credentials, shall
have the right to enter upon any premises at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of making inspections. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-10: PERSONS PRESENT AT FIRE SUBJECT TO ORDERS:
Every person eighteen (18) years or older present at a fire or emergency shall
be subject to the orders of the officer in command and shall render assistance
in the manner directed by the officer in command. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-11: FALSE ALARM:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in or report to the fire department a
false alarm or report of a fire or emergency, or to tamper or remove any part
of the fire alarm system. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001)
4-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter, unless otherwise stated, shall be guilty of
a class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 01-03, 12-11-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-2-3: Restroom Or Sewer Facilities
4-2-4: Restrictions On Blocking Water
4-2-5: Nuisances On Property
4-2-6: Abatement Procedure
4-2-7: Penalty For Failure To Comply
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   AUTHOR: Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth of the
usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his agent, the
tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of the property on
which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors thereof and shall
be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance shall arise from the
unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the business thereon
conducted, then the occupants and all other persons contributing to the
continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors.
   NUISANCE: Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person either as an owner, agent or
occupant to create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a
nuisance. (1976 Code §§ 10-311, 10-312; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Statement: Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or continued
in violation of section
4-2-1 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated
and punished as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Specified: Nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Befouling Water: Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or
water source supplying water for culinary purposes. (1976 Code § 10-313)
      2.   Privies, Cesspools: Allowing any privy vault or cesspool, or other
individual wastewater disposal system, to become a menace to health or a source
of odors or contamination to air or water. (1976 Code § 10-313; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   Garbage Containers, Offensive: Permitting any garbage container to
remain on premises when it has become unclean and offensive.
      4.   Garbage Accumulation: Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter,
filth or refuse of any nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley,
yard or area, except when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
      5.   Manure Accumulation: Permitting the accumulation of manure in any
stable, stall, corral, feed yard, yard or in any other building or area in
which any animals are kept.
      6.   Slaughterhouses, Feed Yards: Permitting any slaughterhouse, market,
meat shop, stable, feed yard or other place or building wherein any animals are
slaughtered, kept, fed or sold to remain unclean or in any state or condition
detrimental to health or creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which
flies or rodents breed. (1976 Code § 10-313)
      7.   Discharging Offensive Water Or Liquid Waste: Discharging or placing
any offensive water, chemical spray, liquid waste or refuse of any kind into
any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch,
canal or any vacant lot or which, as the result of continued discharge, will
render the place of discharge offensive or likely to become so. (1976 Code §
10-313; amd. 2003 Code)
      8.   Collecting Grease, Offensive Matter: Keeping or collecting any stale
or putrid grease or other offensive matter.
      9.   Flies And Mosquitos: Having or permitting upon any premises any fly
or mosquito producing condition.
      10.   Public Drinking Vessels: Keeping any drinking vessel for public use
without providing a method of decontamination between uses.
      11.   Ablutions Near Drinking Fountain: Permitting or performing any
ablutions in or near any public drinking fountain.
      12.   Boarding House Or Factory, Sanitary Condition: Failing to furnish
any dwelling house, boarding house or factory or other place of employment with
such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or other facilities as may be required
or to maintain the same in sanitary condition.
      13.   Discontinue Use Privy Vaults: Neglecting or refusing to discontinue
use of, clean out, disinfect and fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or
other individual wastewater disposal systems within twenty (20) days after
notice from an enforcement officer or official of the town.
      14.   Stagnant Water; Offensive Substances: Permitting any lot or
excavation to become the repository of stagnant water or any decaying or
offensive substances.
      15.   Obstructing Public Ways, Watercourses, Parks: Obstructing or
tending to obstruct or interfere with or render dangerous for passage any
street or sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage, canal or basin, or any public park
without first obtaining the written permission of the town council. (1976 Code
§ 10-313)
   C.   No Limitation: The types of nuisances above stated shall be deemed in
addition to and in no way a limitation of the nuisances subject to this
chapter. (1976 Code § 10-314)
4-2-3: RESTROOM OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All restroom or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with Utah law and town ordinances. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are
subject to abatement as herein prescribed. (1976 Code § 10-315; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-4: RESTRICTIONS ON BLOCKING WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any drainage system,
canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature, natural or
artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up and
overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B.   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute
a nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement. (1976 Code § 10-316)
4-2-5: NUISANCES ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "nuisance" is
defined to mean any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
are deleterious or injurious, noxious or unsightly, which includes, but is not
limited to, keeping or depositing on or scattering over the premises any of the
following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris.
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers or
other discarded items not currently in use. (1976 Code § 10-331; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Duty Of Maintenance: No person owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall
any such person keep or maintain such premises in any manner causing
substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood
in which such premises are located. (1976 Code § 10-332)
   C.   Storage Of Personal Property: Unsheltered storage of old, unused,
stripped and junked machinery, implements, equipment or personal property of
any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, for a period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed junk
yards) within the town, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to
the public safety. (1976 Code § 10-333)
   D.   Abatement By Owners: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees or occupants
of any lot within the town on which such "storage", as defined in subsection C
of this section, is made, and also the owner, owners or lessees of the above
described personal property involved in such storage, shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into completely enclosed
and secured yards or buildings to be used for such purposes, or otherwise
remove such property from the town. (1976 Code § 10-334)
4-2-6: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Nuisance Inspector:
      1.   Established: There is hereby established the position of nuisance
inspector, whose duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Until another person is designated, the mayor or duly authorized agent shall
enforce the provisions of this chapter. More than one person may be appointed
to act as nuisance inspector under this section. (1976 Code § 10-351; amd. 2003
Code)
      2.   Duties: The nuisance inspector is authorized to:
         a.   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
         b.   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all
buildings, structures, lots or places for the purpose of determining whether
such are in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Existence Of Objectional Condition: If he concludes there exists an
objectionable condition in violation of this chapter, the nuisance inspector
shall:
         a.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions
of the premises where such objects and conditions constituting a nuisance
exist.
         b.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice prepaid, addressed to the
owner and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed by
the records of the county assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy and
remove the nuisance within such time as the nuisance inspector may designate;
provided, that any person notified pursuant to this subsection shall be given
at least ten (10), but not more than twenty (20) days, as determined by the
nuisance inspector following the date of service of such notice, to correct the
objectionable condition. The notice shall:
            (1)   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation
and generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
            (2)   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event
he disagrees with the determination of the nuisance inspector and does not wish
to comply with the provisions of the notice or that he objects to the factual
or legal basis for the notice, he may request in writing a hearing before the
town council at a time and place to be set by the town council. A written
application for a hearing shall state the time within which the person must
conform to the provisions of the notice.
            (3)   Inform the person that in the event he fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition, the town will correct the objectionable
condition and will collect the costs of so correcting the objectionable
condition by either a court action, in which case he will be assessed such
costs, together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs, or will charge
the cost of correcting the violation against the property as a tax. (1976 Code
§ 10-351)
         c.   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a
hearing, the town council shall set the time and place for hearing objections,
and the town clerk shall notify the owner, occupant or other persons having an
interest in said property in regard to the objectional condition thereof, in
writing, of the time and place at which they may appear and be heard. The
hearing shall be heard not less than five (5) days nor more than fifteen (15)
days from the date of service or mailing of the notice of hearing. (1976 Code §
10-351; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Informal Hearing; Written Decision: At the written request of an
owner, occupant or other person having an interest in property which is the
subject of a notice to remove or abate weeds, objectionable conditions or
objects from the property, the town council shall conduct an informal hearing
(which need not be reported), wherein such persons may present such evidence
and argument as is pertinent to the question of whether or not the removal or
abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within the purview of this
chapter. The town council shall also permit the presentation of evidence and
argument by the nuisance inspector and other interested parties. Thereafter,
within not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15) days, the town council
shall, over the signature of the mayor, or such other member of the town
council as it may designate, render its written decision, a copy of which shall
be mailed to or served upon the owner or any other person to whom the original
notice was given by the nuisance inspector.
      2.   Notice Of Decision; Abatement By Owner Or Occupant: In the event the
decision of the town council upholds the determination of the nuisance
inspector, the notice originally given by the nuisance inspector as above
provided shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the owner or occupant to
remove or abate the objectionable objects or conditions, and he shall have up
to fifteen (15) days from the date of notice of the decision within which to
conform thereto, unless additional time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, is
authorized by the nuisance inspector.
      3.   Time Period For Compliance: In the event that the decision of the
town council either overrules or modifies the determination of the nuisance
inspector, the written decision of the town council shall apprise the owner or
occupant of that fact and set forth the details and extent to which the owner
or occupant must make removal or other abatement of the objectionable objects
or conditions, if any. The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to
the decision of the town council within fifteen (15) days after service or
mailing of a copy of the decision, and the decision shall be deemed to be the
modified decision of the nuisance inspector, unless additional time is
authorized by the town council. (1976 Code § 10-352; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Filing Of Amended Notice: The nuisance inspector shall file an
amended notice and proof of service of notice and file the same in the office
of the county treasurer. (1976 Code § 10-352)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By Town: If any owner, occupant or other
person having an interest in land described in such notice of decision to whom
the notice was given shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements
thereof relating to the eradication, destruction or removal of such weeds,
garbage, refuse, objects or structures, the nuisance inspector shall employ all
necessary assistance to cause such objectionable objects or conditions to be
removed or destroyed at the expense of the town. (1976 Code § 10-353)
   D.   Itemized Statement: The nuisance inspector shall prepare an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of nuisances,
and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner or occupant, or both, or to persons
having an interest in the property, demanding payment within twenty (20) days
of the date of mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by
registered mail, addressed to the last known address of the property owner,
occupant or persons having an interest in the property. (1976 Code § 10-354)
   E.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the town treasurer within the twenty (20) days, the
nuisance inspector may either cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court
of law or may refer the matter to the county treasurer as provided in this
chapter. (1976 Code § 10-355)
   F.   Collection:
      1.   Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of destruction and
removal are pursued through the courts, the town shall sue and receive judgment
for all of said expenses of destruction and removal, together with reasonable
attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such judgment
in the manner provided by law. (1976 Code § 10-356)
      2.   Taxes: In the event that the nuisance inspector elects to refer the
expenses of destruction or removal to the county treasurer for inclusion in the
tax notice of the property owner, he shall make in triplicate an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal of the same,
and shall deliver three (3) copies of the statement to the county treasurer
within ten (10) days after the completion of the work of destroying or removing
such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects or structures. Thereupon, the costs of the
work shall be pursued by the county treasurer in accordance with the provisions
of Utah Code Annotated section 10-11-4, as amended, and the recalcitrant owner
shall have such rights and shall be subject to such powers as are thereby
granted. (1976 Code § 10-357)
   G.   Criminal Proceedings: The commencement of criminal proceedings for the
purpose of imposing penalties for violations of this chapter shall not be
conditioned upon prior issuance of a notice or the granting to the defendant an
opportunity to abate or remove the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter
relating to notice and abatement shall be deemed merely alternative and
additional methods of securing conformity to the provisions of this chapter.
(1976 Code § 10-358)
4-2-7: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Class C Misdemeanor: Any owner, occupant or person having an interest
in property subject to this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or
order given pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and each and every day such person fails
to comply beyond the date fixed for compliance shall constitute a separate
offense.
   B.   Criminal Proceedings: Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to
whom a notice has been given subsequent to the commencement of criminal
proceedings as provided in this chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal
proceeding brought pursuant to this section. (1976 Code § 10-359; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Standard Of Weed Control
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
Weeds shall include any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed or which
shall have been designated a noxious weed by the Utah commissioner of
agriculture. (1976 Code § 10-322)
4-3-2: STANDARD OF WEED CONTROL:
   A.   Conditions Constituting Nuisance: It is hereby declared that the above
stated weeds constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a source of
contamination or pollution of the water, air or property, a danger to health, a
breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of life
deleterious to humans or are unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings.
   B.   Removal: The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within twenty
four (24) hours after cutting. (1976 Code § 3-323)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
It shall be an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person owning or occupying real property to allow
weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted by this chapter or not
to remove from such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse,
unsightly or deleterious objects after having been given notice as provided in
section
4-2-6 of this title. (1976 Code § 3-321; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
COLLECTION OF WASTE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Waste Management Granted Exclusive Franchise
4-4-4: Requirement For Collection Services
4-4-5: Prohibitions
4-4-6: Indemnity
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
The Town is a party to that certain Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between
Cache County and Participating Municipalities of Cache County for Creation of
an Interlocal Entity for County and Municipal Solid Waste Disposal dated
November 2022 (the "Interlocal Agreement") which established the interlocal
entity called the Cache Waste Consortium (the "Consortium"). The Consortium may
from time to time enter into certain Solid Waste Services Agreements (the
"Services Agreement") whereby providers agree to provide waste collection
services for all governmental entities who are a part of the Consortium. The
Services Agreements require governmental entities in the Consortium to adopt
ordinances for the enforcement of the exclusive right granted to the provider
under contract with the Consortium. This Chapter is meant to, and should be
interpreted to, meet the requirements of the current Services Agreement of the
Consortium.
(Ord. 23-06, 9-5-2023)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
BIN: A watertight metal or heavy plastic receptacle with a hinged plastic lid
and a capaTown of between one (1) and eight (8) cubic yards, designed or
intended to be mechanically dumped into a packer type truck and provided to the
Town by the Town Collector.
CART: A watertight heavy plastic receptacle with a rated capacity of
approximately sixty-four (64) or ninety-six (96) gallons, having a hinged,
tight-fitting lid, and two (2) wheels and provided to the Town by the Town
Collector.
COLLECTION SERVICE(S): The process by which Solid Waste is removed from a
Commercial or Residential Premises, transported to a transfer, disposal or
processing facility, and subsequently disposed or processed.
COMMERCIAL PREMISES:
   A.   Multi-Family Complexes; and
   B.   Premises at which business or governmental activity is conducted,
including, but not limited to, retail sales, services, medical facilities,
wholesale operations, manufacturing and industrial operations, governmental
operations, and schools.
CONTAINER: A Bin, Cart or Roll-Off Container provided by the Town Provider.
DWELLING UNIT: Any individual living unit that includes a kitchen, and a room
or suite of rooms, and is designed or occupied as separate living quarters for
an individual or group of individuals. However, Dwelling Unit does not include
a hotel or motel unit.
GREEN WASTE: Any vegetative matter resulting from normal yard and landscaping
maintenance that is not more than three (3) feet in its longest dimension or
six (6) inches in diameter. Green Waste includes, but is not limited to, plant
debris such as palm, yucca and cactus, grass clippings, leaves, prunings,
weeds, branches, brush, undecorated Christmas trees, and other forms of
vegetative waste.
MULTI-FAMILY COMPLEX: Any Premises with four (4) or more Dwelling Units, where
such Dwelling Units receive centralized Collection Services (and not
individualized Cart-based Collection Services).
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT: A Dwelling Unit in a Multi-Family Complex.
OVERAGE: Defined as:
   A.   Refuse, Recyclables or Green Waste exceeding its Container's intended
capacity such that the lid is lifted by at least ten inches (or would be lifted
by at least ten inches if lowered); or
   B.   Refuse, Recyclables or Green Waste placed on top of or in the immediate
vicinity of the Container, in bags or otherwise.
PREMISES: Any parcel of real property in the Town where Solid Waste is
generated or accumulated.
RECYCLABLES: Aluminum cans, PET bottles with the symbol #1 with screw tops
only, HDPE plastic bottles and containers with the symbol #2 (milk jugs,
detergent containers, and shampoo bottles, etc.), PP plastic bottles and
containers with symbol # 5 (ex. yogurt containers, syrup bottles), steel and
tin cans, glass food and beverage containers - any color, newspaper, mail,
uncoated paperboard (Cereal boxes, food and snack boxes), old corrugated
containers/cardboard (uncoated) (moving boxes, pizza boxes), magazines, glossy
inserts and pamphlets.
REFUSE: Solid Waste that is set out for collection and disposal pursuant to
this Agreement. Refuse does not include Recyclables or Green Waste set out for
collection.
RESIDENTIAL PREMISES: A Single-Family Premises.
ROLL-OFF CONTAINER: An all-metal container with ten (10) cubic yards or more
capacity that is loaded onto a specialized collection vehicle.
SERVICE RECIPIENT: An owner or occupant of a Residential or Commercial Premises
who is receiving Collection Services.
SINGLE-FAMILY PREMISES:
   A.   Any Premises with less than four (4) Dwelling Units; and
   B.   Any Premises with four (4) or more Dwelling Units where each Dwelling
Unit receives individualized Cart-based Collection Services (and not
centralized Collection Services), which Premises have been registered or
verified with the Town for the receipt of Collection Services.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and non-putrescible solid, semi-solid, and liquid
wastes that are generated or coming to exist in the Town, including discarded
Recyclables and Green Waste, but excluding Unacceptable Waste.
TOWN COLLECTOR: The provider currently established by resolution of the Town
Council.
UNACCEPTABLE WASTE: Any waste tires, radioactive, volatile, corrosive,
flammable, explosive, biomedical, infectious, bio-hazardous, regulated medical
or hazardous waste, toxic substance or material, as defined by, characterized,
or listed under applicable federal, state, or local laws or regulations, any
materials containing information protected by federal, state or local privacy
and security laws or regulations (unless tendered to the Town Collector
pursuant to a separate agreement), or any material the acceptance or handling
of which would cause a violation of any applicable statute, rule or regulation,
damage to the Town Collector's equipment of facilities, or present a
substantial endangerment to the health or safety of the public or the Town
Collector's employees. Title to and liability for Unacceptable Waste shall
remain with the generator at all times.
(Ord. 23-06, 9-5-2023)
4-4-3: WASTE MANAGEMENT GRANTED EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE:
The Town Collector is hereby granted the exclusive duty, right and privilege to
provide Collection Services or otherwise handle all Solid Waste generated,
deposited, accumulated or coming to exist at Commercial and Residential
Premises in the Town.
(Ord. 23-06, 9-5-2023)
4-4-4: REQUIREMENT FOR COLLECTION SERVICES:
All Commercial and Residential Premises in the Town shall receive Collection
Services through the Town Collector and shall enroll in Collection Services
with the Town through the forms and agreements adopted by the Town.
(Ord. 23-06, 9-5-2023)
4-4-5: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person, except
the Town Collector, to collect or remove any Solid Waste, whether commercial or
residential, accumulated or located within the Town, or use the streets,
avenues, alleys or ways within the Town for the purpose of collection or
transportation of same.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for more than one Single-Family Premises to share
the same Collection Services account with the Town.
   C.   Except as may occur through ordinary wear and tear, it shall be
unlawful for any person to lose, damage or destroy any Container.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally remit any Unusable
Waste in any Container with the purpose of the Unusual Waste being picked up as
part of Collection Services.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause any Overage with any
Container.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fill any Container until it is
overweight. For the purposes of this subsection, "overweight" shall mean two
times the volume capacity of the Container (e.g. 192 pounds for a 96-gallon
Cart).
   G.   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any owner, occupant or
tenant of a Premises from personally handling, hauling, or transporting Solid
Waste generated by or from such Premises for purposes of disposing of the same
at an authorized disposal area or transfer station.
   H.   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the right of any person
to sell Recyclables (i.e., receipt of a net payment) to any person lawfully
engaged in the recycling business in the Town or to donate Recyclables to any
bona fide charity, provided that all such Recyclables are separated by the
generator of the Recyclables.
(Ord. 23-06, 9-5-2023)
4-4-6: INDEMNITY:
Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall indemnify the Town
against any and all costs and expenses incurred by the Town as a result of the
violation, including costs and attorney fees incurred in enforcing the
provisions of this Chapter or collecting any amounts due and owing to the Town
due to Collection Services.
(Ord. 23-06, 9-5-2023)
CHAPTER 5
LITTER; HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Handbills And Posters; Restricted Activity
4-5-3: Litter Regulations
4-5-4: Handbill Regulations
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
   AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE: A public or private litter storage and collection
receptacle.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
   A.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
   B.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest in sales thereof;
   C.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. However, the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place
of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without
a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state,
or under any ordinance of the town; or
   D.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distribution.
   GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, cooking or consumption of food,
condemned food products and all refuse and waste from the handling, storage,
preparation and sale of produce. Garbage originates primarily in kitchens,
stores, markets, restaurants, hotels and other places where food is handled,
stored, sold, cooked and consumed.
   LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish", as defined herein, and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety, welfare or appearance of the town.
   NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general or local circulation or any periodical
or current magazine regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per
year and sold to the public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill
or newspaper.
   PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the town, owned or used by the town.
   REFUSE: Putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid
market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively on
stationary rails or tracks. (1976 Code § 10-431)
4-5-2: HANDBILLS AND POSTERS; RESTRICTED ACTIVITY:
No person or business shall post, stick, stamp, paint or otherwise affix, or
cause the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card,
poster, advertisement or other paper or device calculated to attract the
attention of the public, or upon any sidewalk, curb or any other portion or
part of any public way or public place or any lamppost, electric light,
telegraph, telephone or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or tree box, or
upon the columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other parts of any
bridge or other public structure or building, or upon any pole, box or fixture
of the fire alarm or police telegraph system, except such as may be authorized
or required by the laws of the United States or state, and the ordinances of
the town. (1976 Code § 10-449; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-3: LITTER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or on any
street, sidewalk or other public place except:
      1.   In authorized receptacles for collection or in official town garbage
dumps; or
      2.   For collection as authorized by the town council. (1976 Code § 10-
432)
   B.   Placement In Receptacles: Persons placing litter in authorized
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or other public place or on
private property. (1976 Code § 10-433)
   C.   Sweeping Into Gutters Prohibited: No person shall sweep into or deposit
in any gutter, street or other public place the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway, except as
authorized by the town council. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep
the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter. (1976 Code § 10-434)
   D.   Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Clear: No person owning or occupying
a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of
business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. (1976 Code § 10-435)
   E.   Thrown By Person In Vehicle: No person, while a driver or passenger in
a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter on any street or other public place,
or on private property. (1976 Code § 10-436)
   F.   Truck Loads Causing Litter: No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any
load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited on any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck,
the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or
other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of
any kind. (1976 Code § 10-437)
   G.   Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park, except in
authorized receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the park or on
any street or other public place. Where authorized receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein. (1976 Code § 10-438)
   H.   Lakes And Fountains: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere
within the town. (1976 Code § 10-439)
   I.   Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on
any occupied private property, whether owned by such person or not, except that
the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on any private property. (1976 Code § 10-447)
   J.   Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or
vacant private property, whether or not owned by such person. (1976 Code § 10-
448)
4-5-4: HANDBILL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Throwing Or Distributing In Public Places; Penalty: No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street or other public place within the town. Unless otherwise
authorized by the town council, it is an infraction and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for any person to hand out, distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not
be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it. (1976 Code § 10-440;
amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Placing On Vehicles: Unless otherwise authorized by the town council,
no person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
on any vehicle; provided however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public
place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver
thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to
accept it. (1976 Code § 10-441)
   C.   Depositing On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises: No person shall throw or
deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises
which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant. (1976 Code § 10-
442)
   D.   Prohibiting Distribution Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill on any private
premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so or if there is placed on
said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign
bearing the words "no trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", "no
advertisements", or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the
occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or to have their right
of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left on such premises. (1976
Code § 10-443)
   E.   Distributing At Inhabited Private Premises: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on private
premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such
handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or on
such private premises. However, in case of inhabited private premises which are
not posted, as provided in this section, such person, unless requested by
anyone on such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in
or on such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or
deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted
about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except
that mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations. (1976 Code § 10-444)
   F.   Exception For Mail And Newspapers: The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers,
except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner so
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on private property. (1976 Code § 10-445)
   G.   Posting Notice Prohibited: No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the
public, to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or on any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law. (1976
Code § 10-446)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Unwholesome Food
4-6-2: Removal Of Garbage
4-6-3: Discharge Of Sewage Pollution
4-6-4: Inadequate Plumbing
4-6-1: UNWHOLESOME FOOD:
It is a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for any person to sell or offer for sale any unwholesome
food or beverage which has been condemned by any government food inspector.
(1976 Code § 10-223; amd. 2003 Code)
4-6-2: REMOVAL OF GARBAGE:
   A.   Upon Vacating Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person, upon
vacating or moving from any dwelling, storeroom or other building, to fail to
remove all garbage, rubbish or ashes from such building or premises and the
grounds appurtenant thereto, or to fail to place the same in a thoroughly
sanitary condition within twenty four (24) hours after the premises are
vacated.
   B.   Rental Property: In situations where rental property is so vacated, the
owner of the property shall be concurrently responsible with the tenant thereof
for compliance with this section. (1976 Code § 10-224)
4-6-3: DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE POLLUTION:
   A.   Conform To Standards: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
or permit the discharge of any sewage or filth from any premises into and upon
any public highway, stream, watercourse or public place, or into any drain,
cesspool or private wastewater disposal system which does not conform to
standards established by the state division of health or by the town.
   B.   Connection To Public Sewer System: The town or the county health
department may order a connection for sewage disposal to be made with the
public sewer system provided by the town if such is available; provided, that
the public sewer system is within three hundred feet (300') of the premises.
   C.   Prevention: The town or the county health department shall use all due
measures to prevent the befouling of any streams, watercourses, reservoirs or
any source furnishing water to any of the inhabitants of the town. (1976 Code §
10-225; amd. 2003 Code)
4-6-4: INADEQUATE PLUMBING:
The town or the county health department shall have power to require the prompt
repair of all leaks or other defects in plumbing throughout the town. It shall
have power to condemn and abate all plumbing which is deficient under the
plumbing ordinances. When, in the opinion of the town or the county health
department, a change in occupants, type of business or other cause requires
changes in plumbing, it shall have the power to compel the installation of an
increased number of plumbing fixtures and a change in their type or capacity,
and to make such other alterations or increases as may be necessary for the
health and safety of the occupants of the building and of the public generally.
(1976 Code § 10-226; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
BURNING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Enforcement
4-7-2: Permit Requirements
4-7-3: Permissible Burning
4-7-4: Consent Of Utah Division Of Wildlife Sources
4-7-5: Prohibited And Restricted Acts And Activities
4-7-6: Penalty And Liability
4-7-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Officials: The responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter shall
be primarily the fire chief or his duly authorized agents or deputies and also
in the county sheriff or his duly authorized deputies in conjunction with the
fire chief.
   B.   Authority For Action: If there is reason to believe that any fire
presents or is likely to present a danger to persons or property, the above
designated officers or deputies shall have the authority to require the
immediate suppression or prohibition of such burning pending further action by
the fire chief or the governing body as the case may require. (Ord. 02-03, 3-
14-2002)
4-7-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Authorized Officials: The county fire chief or the town fire chief, or
his duly authorized agent, who shall be authorized to determine the appropriate
application process and forms for the issuance of such permits, shall issue
permits.
   B.   Record: The fire chief is authorized to grant a permit orally to an
applicant; provided, that the fire chief makes and maintains a written record
of the permit, including: 1) the name of the applicants; 2) the burning site;
3) the nature, anticipated time, and date of the proposed burning; and 4) the
time and date of the granting of the permit.
   C.   Fees: The governing body may, at its discretion, establish fees by
resolution for burning permits. Until such resolution is adopted, no fees shall
be assessed.
   D.   Revocation: Whenever there is a probable cause to believe that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law as to any
fire, or if circumstances give reasonable concern for the safety of persons or
property, the town fire chief, or his duly authorized agent, may revoke said
permit and extinguish any fire in violation of these provisions. (Ord. 02-03,
3-14-2002)
4-7-3: PERMISSIBLE BURNING:
   A.   Without Permit:
      1.   Unless prohibited by state statutes or regulations, other town
ordinances, applicable declarations of closed fire seasons, or the order of a
law enforcement officer, the town fire and rescue chief, or his duly authorized
agent, the following types of burning are permitted without a permit:
         a.   Fires in outdoor grills, fireplaces, or similar devices for the
primary purpose of preparing food, provided the devices are not used for the
burning of refuse, trash, garbage or other waste in areas where there is a
public or duly licensed disposal service available.
         b.   Campfires and other recreational fires; provided, that such fires
are attended and under the control of a responsible person; and further
provided, that no such fire shall be permitted during any closed fire season as
declared by the county fire chief or the town fire chief, notice of which has
been published once in a newspaper of general circulation.
         c.   Fires in indoor fireplaces.
         d.   Burning on the premises of combustible household wastes generated
by occupants of dwellings of four-family units or less in those areas only
where no public or duly licensed disposal service is available.
      2.   A burning permit is not required for the burning of fence lines on
cultivated lands, canals or irrigation ditches where the burning will not pose
a threat to forest, range or watershed lands, provided due care is used in the
control of the burning and that the individual notifies the fire department of
the approximate time the burning will occur.
   B.   Permit Required: Unless prohibited by state statutes or regulations,
other town ordinances, applicable declarations of closed fire seasons, or the
order of a law enforcement officer, the county fire chief or the town fire
chief, or his duly authorized agent, the following types of burning are
permitted, providing that a permit has first been obtained:
      1.   The burning of prunings from trees, brushes and plants, or of dead
or diseased trees, bushes and plants, including stubble, incidental to
horticultural or agricultural operations.
      2.   The controlled heating of orchards or other crops to minimize damage
from freezing temperatures; provided, that the emissions from such heating
shall not violate any minimum standards established by the state department of
health.
      3.   Open burning of materials or structures when conducted under the
control and supervision of the town fire chief.
      4.   Fires for firefighter training purposes when conducted under the
direct control and supervision of the town fire chief.
      5.   Open burning, at an approved site, of hazardous materials for which
there is no reasonable alternate practical method of disposal; provided, that
such burning shall be under the supervision of the town fire chief and in
accordance with state law.
      6.   Other open burning for special purposes or under unique
circumstances when approved by the town fire chief and the county health
department following a formal request therefor.
      7.   Fires on any town property, including roads, rights of way, ditch
banks, river bottom lands, wild lands, or other areas of town domain. (Ord. 02-
03, 3-14-2002)
4-7-4: CONSENT OF UTAH DIVISION OF WILDLIFE RESOURCES:
The consent of the Utah division of wildlife resources shall be required for
any fires on any property leased, owned or controlled by that division as wild
lands or wildlife habitat. (Ord. 02-03, 3-14-2002)
4-7-5: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Burning At Community Waste Sites Restricted: No burning shall be done
at sites used for the disposal of community trash, garbage, or other waste
except when authorized for a specific period of time and subject to specific
conditions as approved by the Utah air conservation committee in accordance
with the Utah air conservation act (Utah Code Annotated title 19, chapter 2),
and by the governing body after a public hearing.
   B.   General Prohibition: No person shall burn any trash, garbage or other
waste, nor conduct any salvage operations in or at any open fire site, except
as provided by this chapter.
   C.   Unlawful To Burn Near Forest Service Lands Or Property: It shall be
unlawful to burn within one mile of forest service lands or property.
   D.   Unattended And Uncontrolled Fires Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any fire unattended,
whether on private or public property.
      2.   A fire shall be deemed "unattended" when any flame, live coals or
embers remain and the person or persons responsible for the fire have left the
proximity of the fire either in distance or time that would preclude prompt
suppression action by said person or persons.
      3.   Any fire on private or public property burning uncontrolled and
without proper and adequate action being taken to prevent its spread is
declared a public nuisance.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or commit any public
nuisance. (Ord. 02-03, 3-14-2002)
4-7-6: PENALTY AND LIABILITY:
   A.   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall, for each day for each violation or noncompliance, be guilty
of a separate class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for each offense. (Ord. 02-03, 3-14-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Any persons responsible for the existence or spread of any uncontrolled
or unattended fire, or any other fire, on public or private property,
necessitating suppression action by one or more fire suppression agencies,
shall be liable to the agency or agencies involved for the payment of all costs
therefor. (Ord. 02-03, 3-14-2002)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Administrative Provisions
5-1-3: Animal Control Regulations Generally
5-1-4: Dogs; Licenses And Permits
5-1-5: Kennels
5-1-6: Impoundment
5-1-7: Fierce, Dangerous Or Vicious Animals And Guard Dog Restrictions
5-1-8: Nuisance Animals Defined; Prohibited
5-1-9: Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates (as applied to
dogs and other animals), the following words shall mean:
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The custodian selected by the governing body to be
responsible for the operation of the dog pound or to work with and serve as the
town's contact with other contracted or authorized parties providing such
services.
   ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT: Any animal under the control of its owner or under
the control of the person having charge, care, custody or control of the
animal. A dog shall not be considered under control of the owner unless on a
leash or lead, confined within a vehicle or restrained within the real property
limits of the owner.
   AT LARGE OR RUNNING AT LARGE: Any dog or other animal off or away from the
premises of the owner, possessor or keeper thereof, unless such dog or other
animal is under the control of such owner, possessor or keeper, or his agent or
servant, or a member of his immediate family by means of a leash, cord or chain
not in excess of ten feet (10') in length, or confined within a vehicle.
   ATTACK: Any attempted biting or action by an animal, which places a person,
or another animal, in danger of imminent bodily harm. Actual physical contact
shall not be required to constitute an attack.
   BITE: Any injury to a person, another animal or property inflicted by the
teeth of an animal.
   CAT: Any feline of the domesticated type.
   CATTERY: An establishment for boarding, breeding, buying, grooming or
selling cats for a fee.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL: A kennel established for the purpose of boarding,
breeding, and harboring of seven (7) or more animals for financial gain.
   DOG: Any male or female dog of any age.
   DOG OF LICENSING AGE: Any dog which has been weaned or attained the age of
four (4) months.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMALS: Any animals accustomed to living in or about the
habitation of man, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, fowl, horses,
swine and goats.
   ESTRAY: Any valuable animal, except dogs and cats, not wild, found wandering
from its owner.
   FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION OR RECREATIONAL ANIMALS: The keeping of not more than
four (4) large animals (horses, cattle, llamas) and their offspring of less
than six (6) months, or not more than five (5) small animals (sheep, goats) and
their offspring of less than six (6) months, or not more than one hundred (100)
domestic fowl for each lot of one-half (1/2) acre of five-eighths (5/8) acre. A
proportionate increase is allowed based upon a ratio of that property to one
and one-fourth acres. All animals are to be maintained in a husband like
manner.
   GUARD DOG: A working dog that must be kept in a fenced run or other suitable
enclosure during business hours, or on a leash under absolute control, so it
cannot come into contact with the public.
   HOLDING FACILITY: Any pet shop, kennel, cattery, groomer, riding school,
stable, animal shelter, veterinary hospital, humane establishment or any other
such facility used for holding animals.
   HOUSEHOLD: A person or group of people occupying a single dwelling, with a
street address issued and recorded by Clarkston Town LUDMA. It includes the
spaces and possessions belonging to such a unit.
   IMPOUNDED: Having been received into the custody of the municipal pound or
into the custody of any authorized agent or representative of the municipality.
   LIVE TRAP: Any trap which does not cause harm or injury or is used with the
intent to harm or injure the animal.
   NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or maintaining
four (4) or more dogs, over the age of six (6) months old, shall be considered
to be operating a noncommercial dog kennel.
   OWNER: When applied to the proprietorship of a dog or other animal, means
any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning, having charge,
custody or control of, keeping or harboring, a dog or other animal.
   PET SHOP: An establishment where dogs, cats, birds or other pets are kept
and displayed for sale.
   POUND OR SHELTER: A facility owned, employed by and/or operated by a
government entity or any animal welfare organization that is organized within
the state for the purpose of preventing cruelty to animals, and used for the
care and custody of seized stray, homeless, quarantined, abandoned or unwanted
dogs, cats or other small domestic animals.
   QUARANTINE: The isolation of an animal in an enclosure so that the animal is
not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.
   STRAY: Any animal at large.
   TRAPPING: The use of any mechanical device which entraps, snares or snaps
closed on any animal.
   UNLICENSED DOG: A dog for which the license for the current year has not
been paid or to which the tag provided for in this chapter is not attached.
   VICIOUS DOG OR ANIMAL: Any animal which is dangerously aggressive or
uncontrollable, including, but not limited to, any animal which has bitten or
in any other manner attacked a person or animal without provocation, or an
animal that has a known propensity to attack or bite human beings or other
animals.
   WILD ANIMAL: Any animal of a species that in natural life is wild. Those
animals, however domesticated, shall include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Alligators and crocodiles;
   B.   Bears (Ursidae). All bears, including grizzly bears, brown bears, black
bears, etc.;
   C.   Cat family (Felidae). All, except the commonly accepted domesticated
cats, and including cheetah, cougar, leopard, lion, lynx, panther, mountain
lion, tiger, wildcat, etc.;
   D.   Dog family (Canidae). All, except the domesticated dogs, and including
wolf, fox, coyote, dingo, etc.;
   E.   Porcupine (Erethizontidae);
   F.   Primate (Hominidae). All subhuman primates;
   G.   Raccoon (Procyonidae). All raccoons, including eastern raccoon, desert
raccoon, ring tailed cat, etc.;
   H.   Skunks;
   I.   Venomous fish and piranha;
   J.   Venomous snakes or lizards;
   K.   Weasels (Mustelidae). All weasels, including, martens, wolverines,
ferrets, badgers, otters, ermine, mink, mongoose, etc., except that persons
raising members of this family as a business for their pelts shall not be
prohibited by this chapter. (Ord. 01-01, 7-6-2001; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 11-02,
3-22-2011; Ord. 13-01, 3-5-2013; Ord. 20-01, 3-3-2020)
5-1-2: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Office Of Animal Control Officer Created: The position of animal
control officer is created. This office may be filled by appointment by the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the town council, by contract for such
services or by other methods approved by the town council.
   B.   Identification Of Animal Control Officer: The town council is empowered
to make a determination as to appropriate badges, uniforms, insignia, decals
for motor vehicles and/or other forms of identification to be issued to and
used by any animal control officer within the town in order to ensure such
individuals can properly identify themselves as appointed contractors or
municipal employees with the animal control department, and in order to protect
the town's residents from unauthorized individuals. To the extent possible,
such badges and other identifying items shall be serialized, or otherwise
labeled, with proper records being kept of all items issued, the date of issue,
the name and address of the individual to whom issued and the date of return.
Any person receiving such items shall return the same to the appropriate town
official immediately upon cessation of employment.
   C.   Duties Of Animal Control Officer: The animal control officer shall
perform the following duties:
      1.   Carry out and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Take into his possession and impound all stray animals running at
large and dispose of the same as provided in this chapter;
      3.   Enforce the licensing and control of all animals within the
municipality as provided in this chapter;
      4.   Have authority to issue citations and file complaints in the
appropriate court against any person, firm or corporation failing to comply
with the provisions of this chapter;
      5.   With authorization from the town, provide for a good and sufficient
pound in which all animals duly committed to his/her charge or otherwise
impounded by him/her shall be maintained;
      6.   Maintain detailed records as required by the town;
      7.   May obtain technical and professional licenses when required
thereunder.
   D.   Services Of Animal Control Officer: The animal control officer shall
charge the owners of animals taken into his possession for impound, disposal or
other services, who shall pay such fees and charges for services performed by
the pound or animal control officer which shall be established from time to
time by the governing body by resolution. Payment of all fees and fines shall
be paid to the town clerk.
   E.   Lawful For Officers To Go On Premises: In the enforcement of any
provision of this chapter, any police officer, the municipal animal control
officer and/or their deputies, are authorized to enter the premises of any
person or entity to take possession of any fierce, stray, dangerous or vicious
dog, or other animal, or dogs or other animals which have committed an act
prohibited by town ordinance when in fresh pursuit of such dog or other animal
at the time the dog or other animal goes onto private property, whether
registered or unregistered, and as otherwise provided in this chapter and by
law.
   F.   Interference With Officer Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
interfere, molest, hinder or obstruct the animal control officer or any of his
authorized representatives in the discharge of their duties as prescribed in
this chapter. (Ord. 01-01, 7-6-2001)
5-1-3: ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
   A.   Unlawful Acts: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Harbor or keep within the municipality any lost or stray dog (except
for an animal welfare organization). Whenever any dog shall be found which
appears to be lost or strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify the
town clerk or animal control officer, who shall impound such dog for running at
large contrary to the terms of this chapter. If there shall be attached to such
dog a license tag for the current fiscal year, the animal control officer shall
notify the person to whom such license was issued at the address given in the
license;
      2.   Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, torture,
cruelly beat, mutilate or needlessly kill, or carry or transport in any vehicle
or other conveyance in a cruel and inhuman manner, any animal or cause any of
these acts to be done;
      3.   Fail to provide any animal in his charge or custody with necessary
sustenance, drink and protection from the elements, or cause any of these acts
to be done;
      4.   Maintain any place where fowl or any animals are suffered to fight
in an exhibition or for sport upon any wager;
      5.   Intentionally exhibit any stud, horse or bull or other animal
indecently, or let any male animal to any female animal for the purpose of
providing entertainment or viewing to any person;
      6.   Keep, harbor or allow any animal to be within any water storage area
(or otherwise legally appointed) either now existing or in the future;
      7.   Chain, stake out or tether any animal in a public place unless the
animal is properly restrained so that the animal poses no threat of contact
with an individual engaged in a normal and expected activity.
   B.   Animals Running At Large:
      1.   No cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine or other domesticated
animals shall be allowed to run at large or to be herded, picketed or staked
out upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the limits of this
municipality, except as allowed in this chapter. All such animals so found may
be impounded. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent any
person from driving cows, horses, mules, or other animals from outside the
municipal limits to any enclosure within the municipal limits or from any
enclosure in the municipality to a place outside the municipality, or from one
enclosure to another within the limits of the municipality. Nor shall this
section be so construed as to prohibit any person from picketing or staking
horses, cattle and similar domestic animals in the green portions of public
rights of way and in other similar areas susceptible to grazing, provided such
act is done in such a manner so as to prevent such animals from coming upon the
sidewalks and traveled portion of any streets, and so as not to constitute a
nuisance or a menace to the public health and safety.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to permit
such dog to run at large.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to permit such dog to go
upon or to be upon the private property of any person without the permission of
the owner or person entitled to the possession of such private property.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to permit such dog to go
upon or to be upon public property without a leash.
      5.   The owner of any dog running at large shall be deemed in violation
of this section regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the escape of
the dog and to prohibit it from running at large.
      6.   Any dog running at large in violation of the provisions of this
section is declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and
safety, and the dog shall be taken up and impounded as provided in this
chapter.
      7.   Procuring a permit and tag shall not authorize the running at large
of said dog. The fact that such dog runs at large by reason of some other
person's actions or failure to act, or by event or circumstance, shall not be a
defense to prosecution under this section.
      8.   It is unlawful for any person to chain, stake out or tether any
animal on unenclosed premises unless done so securely and in such a manner that
the animal may not go beyond the property line unless such person has
permission of the owner of the affected property.
      9.   It is unlawful for any person to take, or permit, any animal,
whether loose, or on a leash or in arms, in or about any establishment or place
of business where food products are sold or displayed, including, but not
limited to, restaurants, grocery stores, meat markets, fruit or vegetable
stores, except dogs referred to in subsection
5-1-4A6b of this chapter.
      10.   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to permit such dog to go
upon or to be upon public property where a program, meeting or special event is
in progress, except dogs referred to in subsection
 5-1-4A6b of this chapter.
   C.   Female In Heat To Be Enclosed: The owner of a female dog in heat shall
cause such dog to be penned or enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other
dogs from attacking such female dog or being attracted to such female dog so as
to create a public nuisance.
   D.   Rabies Vaccination Required: The owner of any dog over the age of three
(3) months within the municipality shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies
by a duly licensed veterinarian, shall secure from the veterinarian a
certificate thereof, and shall attach to the collar or harness, which such
person is required to place upon the dog, a tag showing that such vaccination
has been done.
   E.   Reporting Of Rabid Animals: Anyone having knowledge of the whereabouts
of an animal known to have, or suspected of having, rabies shall report the
fact immediately to the county health officer or animal control officer. The
county health officer or animal control officer shall likewise be notified of
any person or animal bitten by a rabid or suspected rabid animal.
   F.   Biting Animal Quarantined For Observation: Any dog or animal of a
species subject to rabies, which is known to have bitten or injured any person
so as to cause an abrasion of the skin, shall be placed in confinement under
observation of a veterinary hospital or the municipal pound and shall not be
killed or released until at least fourteen (14) days after the biting or injury
has occurred in order to determine whether or not the animal has rabies. If the
animal dies or has been killed, its head shall be removed and immediately taken
to the state health laboratory or other appropriate laboratory to be examined
for rabies.
   G.   Rabies Contacts Quarantined: Any animal of a species subject to rabies,
which has been bitten by a known rabid animal or has been in intimate contact
with a rabid animal, shall be isolated in a suitable place approved by the
animal control officer for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days or
destroyed.
   H.   Dog Off Premises Without Vaccination Prohibited: It is unlawful for the
owner of any dog to suffer, allow or permit such dog to be or go upon any
sidewalk, street, alley, public place or square within the municipality without
first having had such dog vaccinated against rabies as provided in this section
and without there being on such dog a collar or harness with a tag thereon
showing that such dog has been so vaccinated.
   I.   Dogs Disturbing Neighborhood Prohibited: No person, persons, firm or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor any dog which by loud, continued or
frequent barking, howling, yelping or by noxious or offensive odors shall
annoy, disturb or endanger the health and welfare of any person or
neighborhood, nor any dog which molests passersby, chases vehicles, habitually
attacks or destroys other domestic animals, or trespasses upon school grounds
or upon private property in such a manner as to damage property. A violation of
this section shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
 1-4-1 of this code, and such is declared to be a nuisance, and each day a
violation is permitted to exist or to continue shall constitute a separate
offense. This section shall not apply to the municipal dog pound, veterinary
hospitals or medical laboratories.
   J.   Abandonment Of Animals Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to
abandon or turn out at large any sick, diseased or disabled animal, but such
animal shall, when rendered useless by reason of sickness or other disability,
be killed and its carcass disposed of by the owner thereof in such a manner as
to not create a nuisance or hazard to health.
   K.   Trespassing Animals And Fowl: It is unlawful for any owner or caretaker
of any domestic fowl or animal to permit such fowl or animal to trespass upon
the premises of another person.
   L.   Killing Or Poisoning Animals Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
wilfully to kill any domestic fowl or animal, or to administer poison to any
such fowl or animal, or to expose any poisonous substance with the intent that
it shall be taken by any such fowl or animal.
   M.   Keeping Animals For Fighting Unlawful:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to raise, keep or
use any animal, fowl or bird for the purpose of fighting or baiting; and for
any person to be a party to, or be present as a spectator at, any such fighting
or baiting of any animal or fowl; and for any person, firm or corporation to
knowingly permit the use of his buildings, sheds, rooms, yards, grounds or
premises for these purposes.
      2.   Law enforcement officers, or animal control officials, may enter any
building or place where there is an exhibition of fighting or baiting of live
animals, or where preparations are being made for such an exhibition, and the
law enforcement officers may arrest persons there present and take possession
of all animals being prepared to fight, engaging in fighting or found for the
purpose of fighting, along with all implements and other paraphernalia used in
such exhibition. This provision shall not be interpreted to authorize a search
or arrest without a warrant when such is required by law.
      3.   A violation of this subsection M is a class C misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   N.   Malicious Impounding: It is unlawful for any person to maliciously
secret or impound the animal of another.
   O.   Removal Of Dead Animals: The owner of any animal or fowl that has died,
or been killed, shall remove, or bury, the carcass of such animal within ten
(10) hours after its death. No horse, cow, ox or other such large animal shall
be buried on the owner's real property if it is less than two (2) acres. A
violation of this subsection is a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   P.   Possession Of Diseased Animals For Sale Unlawful: It is a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to bring into the municipality for sale, or
have in his/her possession with intent to sell or offer for sale, any fowl or
animal which has a communicable disease or which has been exposed to or which
is liable to carry infection from a communicable disease.
   Q.   Unlawful Sale Of Animals:
      1.   Rabbits Or Fowl: It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for
sale, barter or give away any baby rabbits or fowl under two (2) months of age
in any quantity more than six (6). Such animals shall not be artificially dyed
or colored. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the raising
of such rabbits or fowl by a private individual for his personal use and
consumption, subject to the requirements of the town zoning ordinance. Any
person raising rabbits or fowl shall maintain proper containment of such
animals while they are in his possession.
      2.   Premiums And Novelties: It is unlawful for any person or pet shop to
raise or sell any "Pseudyms script aelegans", of "P. troostii" family,
"Testudinidae", pet turtles.
      3.   Dogs: It is unlawful for any person to board, breed, or harbor dogs
for financial gain without first obtaining a business license.
   R.   Trapping Prohibited; Exceptions: It shall be a class C misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to trap, set a trap or engage in trapping in
this municipality, except that the mayor may so authorize, where it is deemed
by the mayor to be in the best interests of the municipality. Nothing herein
contained shall be construed so as to prevent any person from trapping with a
live trap.
   S.   Family Food Production Or Recreational Animals: It is unlawful to keep
more than four (4) large animals (horses, cattle, llamas) and their offspring
of less than six (6) months, or not more than five (5) small animals (sheep,
goats) and their offspring of less than six (6) months, or not more than one
hundred (100) domestic fowl for each lot of one-half (1/2) acre of five-eighths
(5/8) acre. A proportionate increase is allowed based upon a ratio of that
property to one and one-fourth acres. All animals are to be maintained in a
husband like manner. (Ord. 01-01, 7-6-2001; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 03-02, 1-30-
2003; Ord. 04-03, 4-8-2004; Ord. 13-01, 3-5-2013; Ord. 20-01, 3-3-2020)
5-1-4: DOGS; LICENSES AND PERMITS:
   A.   License And Registration:
      1.   Required: It is unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain
any dog that has been weaned or has attained the age of four (4) or more months
unless such dog has been registered and licensed in the manner provided in this
section.
      2.   Application: Application for registration and licensing shall be
made to the town clerk or such other persons as the governing body may
authorize to receive such applications.
      3.   Rabies Vaccination Proof: Proof of current rabies vaccination must
be provided at the time of application for registration and licensing.
      4.   Issuance By Authorized Person: A dog license shall be issued by the
town clerk or other such person(s) as the governing body may authorize.
      5.   Fee Required: No dog license shall be issued by the municipality
until the fee required in this section is paid. License fees shall be adopted
by resolution of the governing body. (Ord. 01-01, 7-6-2001)
      6.   Licensing Or Fee Exemptions: Licensing or fee exemptions shall apply
to: (Ord. 01-01, 7-6-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
         a.   Licensed dogs whose owners are nonresidents (temporarily, up to
30 days) within the jurisdiction. Licensed dogs whose owners remain within the
jurisdiction longer than thirty (30) days may transfer the local license upon
payment of a five dollar ($5.00) fee and proof of current rabies vaccination;
         b.   Any dog duly or properly trained to assist those who have sight
or hearing impairment and acting in this capacity shall be licensed and shall
be required to furnish proof of vaccination, but no license fee shall be
required.
         c.   Any dog especially trained to assist officials of government
agencies in the performance of their duties and are owned by such agencies.
      7.   Exemption Not Applicable To Rabies Vaccination: Nothing in this
section shall be construed as to exempt any dog from having a current rabies
vaccination.
      8.   Fee Due And Payable; Delinquency: The fee payable pursuant to this
subsection shall be due January 1 and shall be delinquent after March 1 of each
year. A penalty fee shall be charged on all dogs licensed after March 1 for
delinquent payments.
      9.   Time Limit For Application: The owner of any newly acquired dog of
licensing age, or of any dog which attains licensing age after March 1 of any
year, shall make an application for registration and license within twenty (20)
days after the acquisition date or the date such dog attains the above stated
age. The license fee shall be one-half (1/2) of that required in this
subsection for new applications after June 1 of any year.
      10.   Revocation Of Dog License: If the owner of any dog is found to be
in violation of this chapter on two (2) or more different occasions during any
twelve (12) month period, the animal control officer may revoke for a period of
one year any dog license such person may possess and pick up and impound any
dog kept by the person under such order. Any dog impounded pursuant to such an
order shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for
impounded animals, except that the person under the order of revocation shall
not be allowed to redeem the dog under any circumstances. Fees for impoundment
shall be paid by the person under the order of revocation as provided for by
resolution adopted by the governing body.
      11.   Information Required; Term Of License: The owner shall state at the
time application is made for such license, his/her name and address and the
sex, breed and color of each dog owned or kept by him. The license shall cover
the calendar year the license was issued, expiring on December 31 of the year
issued, regardless of the day issued.
   B.   Tag And Collar: Upon payment of the license fee, the town clerk shall
issue to the owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The tag shall be changed every year and shall have stamped thereon
the year it was issued and the number corresponding to the number on the
certificate. Every dog owner shall provide each dog with a collar to which the
license tag shall be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be
issued by the town clerk upon presentation of a receipt showing payment of the
license fee for the current year and the payment of a duplicate tag fee. Dog
tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another, and no refunds shall be
made on any dog license fee because of death of the dog or the owner leaving
the municipality before the expiration of the license period. It is unlawful to
deprive a registered dog of its collar and/or tag. (Ord. 01-01, 7-6-2001)
   C.   Number Of Dogs Limited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to keep, harbor or maintain more than three (3) dogs per household
or legal building lot as outlined in the town zoning ordinance, except as
provided in section
5-1-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 11-02, 3-22-2011)
5-1-5: KENNELS:
   A.   Commercial Kennels; Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to operate or maintain a commercial kennel, including, but not
limited to, veterinary clinics and animal shelters. (Ord. 13-01, 3-5-2013)
   B.   Noncommercial Kennels; Permitted: It is lawful for any person wanting
to own more than three (3) dogs per household, as outlined in the town zoning
ordinance, to obtain a kennel license changing the number of dogs allowed per
household to six (6).
   C.   Kennel License Fee:
      1.   Any person conducting, operating, or maintaining a dog kennel shall
pay to the town an annual fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the town council.
      2.   The kennel license fee herein required may be changed from time to
time by resolution of the town council.
   D.   Rules Established: The town council may promulgate rules and
regulations covering the conduct and operation of all kennels within the town
by resolution.
   E.   Violation: Persons will be allowed to operate a noncommercial kennel
until such time as:
      1.   The number of dogs maintained in the kennel is increased to more
than six (6); or
      2.   Proper requirements for licensing or vaccination as provided for in
this chapter are not met; or
      3.   Licensing and kennel fees are not paid. (Ord. 11-02, 3-22-2011)
5-1-6: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Dog Pound And Animal Shelter: The governing body may contract with an
appropriate party able to provide the needed services, with an adjoining
municipality or with the county, for the purpose of providing suitable premises
and facilities to be used by the municipality as the dog pound and animal
shelter. It shall be maintained in some convenient location and shall be
sanitary and operated so as to properly feed, water and protect the dogs and
other animals from injury.
   B.   Impounding: It shall be the duty of the animal control officer, a
police officer or other designated official to apprehend any dog or other
animal found running at large, not wearing his tags, or is in violation of this
chapter, and to impound such dog or other animal in the pound or other suitable
place. The animal control officer, or some other designated official, upon
receiving any dog or other animal, shall make a complete registry, entering the
breed, color and sex of such dog or other animal and whether licensed. If
licensed, he shall enter the name and address of the owner and the number of
the license.
   C.   Record Of Impounding Animals: The animal control officer shall keep a
record of each animal impounded, the date of receipt of such animal, the date
and manner of its disposal and, if redeemed or reclaimed, the name of the
person by whom redeemed or reclaimed, the address of such person, the amounts
of all fees received or collected for, or because of, the impounding or
reclaiming, together with the tag number and the date of any tag exhibited or
issued upon the redemption of such animal.
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals: Any animal impounded, whether licensed
or unlicensed, may be redeemed and taken from such pound by the owner or any
authorized person, upon exhibiting to the supervisor or person having charge of
said pound, a certificate of registry as provided in subsection B of this
section, showing that the license imposed by this chapter, if required, has
been paid for such animal and upon paying the person in charge of the pound all
fees imposed by the town before an animal can be redeemed. All impounded
animals not redeemed within three (3) days shall be disposed of in a humane
manner.
   E.   Disposition Of Unclaimed And Infected Animals: All impounded animals
not redeemed within three (3) days of the date of impounding may be humanely
destroyed. In the case of animals severely injured or having a contagious
disease other than rabies which, in the animal control officer's judgment, are
suffering and recovery is doubtful, the animal control officer may destroy, or
authorize the destruction of, the animals without awaiting the three (3) day
period.
   F.   Interference With Impounding Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
to hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the animal control officer or any
of his assistants while engaging in capturing, securing or taking to the pound
any animals liable to be impounded, or to break open or in any manner directly
or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of any pound or
ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for collecting or conveying of animals
to the pound or shelter. (Ord. 01-01, 7-6-2001; amd. Ord. 11-02, 3-22-2011)
5-1-7: FIERCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS AND GUARD DOG RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Vicious Animal Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person to sell,
possess, offer for sale, barter, give away, keep or purchase any "wild" or
"vicious" animal, as defined in section
5-1-1 of this chapter, which is fierce, dangerous, noxious or naturally
inclined to do harm; except an animal shelter, a veterinary hospital, humane
society shelter, public laboratory, circus, sideshow, amusement park or
facility for education or scientific purposes may keep such an animal if
protective devices adequate to prevent such animal from escaping or injuring
the public are provided.
   B.   Guard Dogs: This section shall apply to guard dogs provided for the
protection of property. Guard dogs must be kept in a fenced run or other
suitable enclosure and under absolute control during hours when the property is
opened to the public so they cannot come into contact with the public. Guard
dogs shall be properly restrained at all times.
   C.   Running At Large; Special Provisions:
      1.   Redemption Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to own and/or
possess a vicious dog or other animal within the municipality. Whenever a
prosecution for this offense is commenced under this section, the dog involved
may not be redeemed, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, while awaiting
final decision of the court as to the disposition of such dog.
      2.   Capture: Any vicious dog or other wild or vicious animal running at
large, or which is loose within the premises of the owner or person having
custody or control of such dog or other animal where it is reasonably likely to
endanger the life or limb of or cause injury to any person or other animal
lawfully entering such premises, shall immediately be captured by the animal
control officer, his deputies or any police officer, and be humanely destroyed
or quarantined as provided in subsection
 5-1-3F of this chapter.
      3.   Destruction: If the capture of such dog or other animal cannot be
accomplished without serious risk or harm to the animal control officer, his
deputies or police officers, such dog or other animal may be destroyed by the
animal control officer, his deputies or any police officer, where found, by the
safest and most appropriate means available. It shall be the duty of the owner
or the person having custody of any vicious dog or other animal, upon request,
to assist in the capture of such dog or other animal.
   D.   Dogs Attacking Persons And Animals:
      1.   Attacking Dogs: It is unlawful for the owner or person having
charge, care, custody or control of any dog to allow such dog to attack, chase
or worry any person, any domestic animal, any species of hoofed protected
wildlife or domestic fowl. "Worry", as used in this subsection, shall mean to
harass by tearing, snapping, chasing, biting, shaking with the teeth or other
similar threatening actions.
      2.   Owner Liability: The owner in violation of subsection D1 of this
section shall be strictly liable for violation of this section. In addition to
being subject to prosecution under subsection D1 of this section, the owner of
such dog shall also be liable for damages to any person injured or to the owner
of any property or animals injured or destroyed thereby.
      3.   Defenses: The following shall be considered in mitigating the
penalties or damages or in dismissing the charge:
         a.   That the dog was properly confined on the premises;
         b.   That the dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
      4.   Dogs May Be Killed: Any person may kill a dog while it is committing
any of the acts specified in subsection D1 of this section, or while such dog
is being pursued thereafter, but only by use of reasonable means that do not
endanger other persons or animals.
   E.   Restrictions On Certain Dog Breeds:
      1.   Hereditary Characteristics: There are certain breeds of dogs, which
by their unique hereditary characteristics, owner training and instruction, or
through mistreatment, have a propensity to be vicious. The breeds include, but
are not limited to, the bull terrier, the American staffordshire terrier,
staffordshire terrier, staffordshire bull terrier, American pit bull terrier,
tosa, sharpei, rotweiler, German shepherd, and doberman pinscher. The dogs
identified under this section:
         a.   Must be licensed under the procedures and fees set forth in this
chapter;
         b.   Must be kept in a fenced yard, dog run or other structure which
is at least six feet (6') in height by six feet (6') wide by ten feet (10') in
length;
         c.   Must be on a leash if they are out of a fenced area and left
unattended on the owner's property;
         d.   Must be on a leash and under complete control when being walked
or exercised on public property, subject to the provisions of subsections E1e
and E1f of this section;
         e.   Are not allowed in public places where a program or meeting is in
progress or where children are going to or from school;
         f.   Are not allowed on public property without a leash.
      2.   Knowledge Of Vicious Propensities: It is unlawful for the owner of a
vicious animal, knowing its propensities, to wilfully allow it to go at large
or to keep it without ordinary care. It is unlawful for any animal, while at
large, to cause injury to another animal or to any human being who has taken
reasonable precaution.
      3.   Administrative Remedy:
         a.   Any person required to comply with the provision of this
subsection or any person who is or may be subject to the enforcement of any
provision of this subsection in a civil or criminal proceeding, who disagrees
with the interpretation or application of any provision of this subsection
shall make a written request to the mayor or responsible town council member to
determine whether and how the provisions of this subsection apply to him or her
and to the animals subject to said provisions.
         b.   During the time that the written request is being considered by
the mayor or responsible town council member, no criminal action shall be
enforced under this chapter against the person who has made the request.
         c.   The mayor or responsible town council member shall rule on the
request within five (5) days after the mayor or responsible town council member
receives it. The decision of the mayor or responsible town council member shall
advise the recipient of whether and how the provisions of this subsection apply
to his/her request; and if any provision applies, the decision shall inform the
recipient of how many days the person has to comply with this subsection before
this chapter will be enforced against him or her and the animal which may be
affected by this chapter.
         d.   If any person affected by the provisions of this subsection takes
the position that his or her animal is not within the classifications
established by this subsection, he or she shall make a written request to the
mayor or responsible town council member under this subsection.
         e.   The mayor or responsible town council member may appoint an
expert to advise him/her on matters requiring special knowledge, with the cost
for the expert to be paid by the person making the request prior to the mayor
or responsible town council member engaging the services of the expert prior to
the issuance of a license under this chapter. Where an expert is required to
advise the mayor or responsible town council member, the mayor or responsible
town council member may delay his or her decision until he has received the
recommendation of the expert.
         f.   Nothing in this chapter requires the town to dismiss any criminal
or civil action brought by the town pending his or her decision. (Ord. 01-01,
7-6-2001; amd. Ord. 11-02, 3-22-2011)
5-1-8: NUISANCE ANIMALS DEFINED; PROHIBITED:
Any owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of an animal
causing a "nuisance", as defined in this section, shall be in violation of this
chapter and subject to the penalties provided herein. Any animal is a nuisance
which:
   A.   Causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner;
   B.   Is a "vicious" animal, as defined in section
5-1-1 of this chapter, and kept contrary to this title;
   C.   Causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors;
   D.   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings;
   E.   Defecates on any public sidewalk, path or building, or on any private
property without consent of the owner of such private property unless the
person owning, having a proprietary interest in, having care, charge, control
or custody of such animal shall remove any such defecation to a proper trash
receptacle;
   F.   Barks, whines, howls or makes other disturbing noises in an excessive,
continuous or untimely fashion;
   G.   Molests passersby or chases passing vehicles;
   H.   Attacks other domestic animals;
   I.   Is determined by the animal control officer to be a public nuisance by
virtue of being offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare or safety;
   J.   Any animals which, by virtue of the number maintained, are determined
to be offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare or safety. (Ord. 01-
01, 7-6-2001; amd. Ord. 11-02, 3-22-2011)
5-1-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating this chapter, unless otherwise stated, shall be
punished as allowed for an infraction, and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Upon the trial of any offense under this chapter, the court may, upon
conviction and in addition to the usual judgment of conviction, order the
animal control officer or other authorized personnel of the municipality to put
the dog or other animal to death, or may order such other disposition of the
dog or other animal as will protect the inhabitants of the municipality.
   C.   Any person issued a delinquent dog registration citation must exhibit
to the court clerk, a certificate of registry, showing that the license imposed
by section
5-1-4 of this chapter has been paid for such animal before payment of citation
can be made. (Ord. 01-01, 7-6-2001; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 11-02, 3-22-2011; Ord.
15-01, 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Utah Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-2-1: UTAH CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah criminal code (Utah Code Annotated title 76), as amended,
are hereby adopted by the town. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded
hereunder. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS; CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Findings And Policy
5-3-2: Prohibited Acts
5-3-3: Penalty
5-3-1: FINDINGS AND POLICY:
The town council finds that it is in the best interest of the town and the
citizens thereof to establish a uniform curfew ordinance because it:
   A.   Provides a clear message about appropriate norms for youth in our
community;
   B.   Provides clear boundaries and supervision;
   C.   Reduces crime;
   D.   Provides parents with an extra tool to keep children safe, as youths
who are off the streets at night are less likely to be victims of crimes; and
   E.   Provides police more resources through this written chapter to fight
crime in our community. (Ord. 97-02, 6-3-1997)
5-3-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Sunday Through Friday: It is unlawful for any minor under eighteen (18)
years of age to remain or loiter in any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or
public places in the town between ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. immediately following, from Sunday evening through Friday
morning.
   B.   Friday Through Sunday: It is unlawful for any minor under eighteen (18)
years of age to remain or loiter in any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or
public places in the town between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. immediately following, from Friday evening through Sunday
morning.
   C.   Parent, Guardian Responsibility: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other person having legal care and custody of any minor under
eighteen (18) years of age to allow or permit any such minor to remain or
loiter on any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the town,
within the times provided in subsections A and B of this section, except as
provided in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsections A through C of this section
shall not apply where the minor under the age of eighteen (18) is:
      1.   Married;
      2.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having care
of such minor;
      3.   Returning home from, going to or being in attendance at any
religious or school function, organized dance, theater, sports event or other
such associated activity; provided, however, that going to or from such
activity shall be by a direct route and within a reasonable time of the
commencement or termination of such event;
      4.   Engaged in a legitimate emergency errand;
      5.   Engaged in a legitimate employment and can produce evidence of such
employment; or
      6.   In a motor vehicle engaged in normal travel, while traveling to,
from or through the town on an interstate trip. (Ord. 97-02, 6-3-1997)
5-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2003 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Traffic Control
6-1-4: Parking Regulations
6-1-5: Street Restrictions
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
The Utah traffic code, 2002 edition, as compiled, prepared and published as a
code in book form by the Utah safety council, one copy of which has been filed
for use and examination by the public in the office of the town clerk, hereby
is approved and adopted as the traffic code for the town, except as such code
may be altered or modified by the ordinances of the town. Subsequent editions
shall become the traffic code for the town once one copy has been filed or use
and examination by the public in the office of the town clerk. (1976 Code § 11-
321; amd. 2003 Code)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in the traffic code to:
   A.   The "state road commission" or "state department of transportation"
shall mean the town and its officers, departments, agencies and agents.
   B.   "Local authorities" shall mean the town council.
   C.   "The department of public safety of the state of Utah" shall mean the
county sheriff or his agent.
   D.   "Magistrate" shall mean the justice court judge. (1976 Code § 11-322;
amd. 2003 Code)
6-1-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Prima Facie Speed; Designated Streets:
      1.   Streets With Signs: When appropriate street signs giving notice of
the maximum permitted speed thereon are erected, the prima facie speed limits
designated upon said signs shall apply to the appropriate streets or portions
of streets so posted.
      2.   Streets Not Posted: Unless otherwise provided in this chapter or in
any other ordinance of the town, the prima facie speed limits on the streets of
the town shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour. (1976 Code § 11-323; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   Through Streets Designated; Stop And Yield Intersections: When
appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs are posted at entrances to
intersections identifying them as stop or yield entrances, such streets are
hereby declared to be stop entrances and yield entrances as designated by said
signs. (1976 Code § 11-325)
   C.   Designations Posted: The town council shall designate the places at
which appropriate traffic control devices or regulatory signs shall be placed
relating to maximum speed limits, angle parking, through streets, stop and
yield intersections and other regulations governing traffic. (1976 Code § 11-
326)
   D.   Angle Parking: When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs are
posted permitting angle parking, angle parking shall be permitted on the
streets or parts of streets so posted at the angle designated by the sign.
(1976 Code § 11-324)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating, causing or permitting violation of any
provision of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in state
statute or the adopted traffic code, whichever is applicable. (1976 Code § 11-
327; amd. 2003 Code)
6-1-4: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Signs; Erection: The town council may authorize or direct any person
employed by the town to erect or install any sign or traffic control device
required to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (1976 Code § 11-342)
   B.   Properly Posted Areas: It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to park or leave standing at any time a "motor vehicle", as
defined in the Utah traffic code, as adopted by the town, in any of the places
properly posted, except when necessary to avoid interference with other traffic
or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device. (1976 Code § 11-343; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Blocking Streets Or Highways: In addition to the parking provisions
contained in the Utah traffic code, as adopted by the town, it shall be a class
B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to: (1976 Code § 11-341; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such a
manner as to obstruct the free passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic
thereon.
      2.   Wilfully remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway
in such manner for more than one minute after being requested to move by any
police officer.
      3.   Wilfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of any person or vehicle into or out of any property
abutting upon the street or highway or any property having access to such
street or highway. (1976 Code § 11-341)
   D.   Unlawful Parking:
      1.   Parking At Curb: No motor vehicle shall be parked with the left side
of the vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets. It shall be
unlawful to stand or park any motor vehicle in a street other than parallel
with the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within twelve
inches (12") of the regularly established curb line, except on those streets
which have been marked for angle parking; then vehicles shall be parked at the
angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
      2.   Vehicles For Sale: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any
street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle from
which merchandise is peddled on any business street. (1976 Code § 11-344)
   E.   Winter Parking:
      1.   Roadside parking will be limited from November 15 of each year to
the following March 15 during the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      2.   During the dates and time specified, there shall be no vehicles,
boats, campers, trailers, construction equipment, etc. parked or stored within
ten feet (10') of the edge of the road.
      3.   Following November 15, first offense violations of this subsection
will result in a warning, which will be issued by the county sheriff’s office.
      4.   Second and all subsequent offenses will result in a parking
citation, issued by the county sheriff’s office, and the vehicle will be towed
at the owner’s expense.
      5.   Citation fees for violations shall be in accordance with the Town’s
prevailing fee schedule. (Ord. 98-02, 3-6-1998; amd. Ord. 24-03, 11-12-2024)
6-1-5: STREET RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Injury To Public Streets And Other Improvements Prohibited: It is
unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently cause or permit any injuries
or damages to any street, sidewalk, ditch, curb, gutter, bridge, culvert or
highway sign, or to wilfully or negligently cause or permit any street,
sidewalk or other property to be flooded with water by reason of improper
construction or maintenance of a bridge or culvert.
   B.   Certain Vehicles Prohibited; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or propel across any
bridge or culvert or upon the streets or roads of the town, any engine,
machinery, vehicle or combination of vehicles, which causes any of the injuries
or damages prohibited by subsection A of this section.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any Logan City, Cache
County or any other jurisdiction's garbage transfer trucks or other similar
motor vehicles upon the streets and roads of the town of Clarkston, except in
an emergency, and except to complete the usual and customary, weekly pick up of
garbage, green waste and recycling materials, as currently occurs in the town.
   C.   Damage To Bridge, Culvert, Streets Or Roads; Duty To Report: It shall
be the duty of any person causing or permitting injury or damage to any street,
sidewalk, ditch, curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, highway sign or other such
property, to immediately report the injury or damage caused to the public works
director for the town of Clarkston; and to then repair said damage or injury as
soon as possible, under the direction of said public works director or to
reimburse Clarkston Town for the damages or injuries caused, as may be
determined and assessed by the public works director.
   D.   Penalty For Violation: Any person, firm or corporation, whether as
principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating or causing or permitting a
violation of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor, subject to fines and penalties as herein provided. Upon
conviction, the violator shall be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in jail for a term not
exceeding six (6) months. If the person or entity violating this section is a
corporation, association, partnership or other governmental entity, then upon
conviction, said corporation, association, partnership or other governmental
organization shall be subject to a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Every violator shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each and every day during which any portion of any violation of this section is
committed or continues. (Ord. 12-03, 11-13-2012)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Roads Department
7-1-2: Removal Of Snow
7-1-3: Obstructions In Streets
7-1-4: Openings In Streets; Doors Obstructing
7-1-5: Discharge Of Water
7-1-6: Crossing At Intersections
7-1-7: Sidewalk Regulations
7-1-1: ROADS DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a Roads Department, which shall have
general supervision of streets, sidewalks, bridges, and other public ways.
(1976 Code § 11-311; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Supervisor: The department shall be under the direction and control of
the Supervisor of Streets.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The department shall:
      1.   Have oversight of the construction, maintenance and repair of
streets, sidewalks, bridges, curbs, gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and
other public ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the streets,
sidewalks and public ways whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters.
      2.   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of
defective streets, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks, and other public ways
and, when proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall
report action taken on each complaint to Council member over Roads and/or the
Mayor. (Ord. 18-08, 11-6-2018)
      3.   Enforce the provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances
relating to the maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches,
waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other public ways.
      4.   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the
department's attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the public
from injuries due to such defects pending their repair. (1976 Code § 11-312)
7-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW:
   A.   Failure To Remove Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant, lessor, or agent of any property abutting on a paved sidewalk, to
fail to remove, or have removed from such paved sidewalk, all hail, snow, or
sleet thereon within a reasonable time after such snow, hail, or sleet has
fallen. In the case of a storm between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., such sidewalks shall be cleaned before nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the same day.
   B.   Depositing In Gutter Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person
removing snow from the sidewalk, to deposit snow, dirt, leaves, or any other
material, in the gutter so as to clog or prevent the free flow of water
therein. (1976 Code § 11-361)
7-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to place, or permit to be placed upon or in the sidewalk, parking
area, gutter, or on the half of the street next to such premises:
   A.   Refuse: Any broken wares, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse
matter, ice, snow, water, garbage, ashes, tin cans or other like substances.
   B.   Building Materials: Any wagons, lumber, wood boxes, fencing, building
material, dead trees, tree stumps, merchandise or other thing which shall
obstruct such public street, gutter, parking area or sidewalk, or any part
thereof, or the passage over and upon the same, or any part thereof, except as
expressly authorized by ordinance, without the permission of the Town Council
first had and obtained.
   C.   Permanent Or Temporary Structures: Any permanent or temporary
structure, mechanism, device, vehicle, or other thing of any kind or character
except trees planted pursuant to the provisions of applicable ordinances. (1976
Code § 11-362)
7-1-4: OPENINGS IN STREETS; DOORS OBSTRUCTING:
   A.   Cellars: It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building
having a cellar which opens upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the
door or other covering in good repair and safe for the passage of the customary
traffic on the street or sidewalk. If the owner or occupant of any such
building shall neglect or refuse to repair properly any such door or covering
within twenty four (24) hours after notice from the superintendent of streets
to do so, the superintendent shall forthwith cause such repairs to be made at
the expense of the owner or occupant.
   B.   Coal Holes: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain coal holes or
other openings in streets or sidewalks, except with the special permission of
the town council, and under the direction and supervision of the superintendent
of streets. (1976 Code § 11-363)
   C.   Doors: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning
or having the control or management of any alley, road, or passageway to
construct or hang gates or doors to such alley, road, or passageway so that the
gates or doors thereto, when open, shall project outwardly more than two feet
(2') over or upon the sidewalk beyond the property line. (1976 Code § 11-364)
7-1-5: DISCHARGE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying, or having control of any
premises to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or eaves of
any house, building, or other structure, or from any other source under the
control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk.
(1976 Code § 11-365)
7-1-6: CROSSING AT INTERSECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park a self-propelled vehicle
or lead, drive, or ride any animal upon any sidewalk except across a sidewalk
at established crossings. (1976 Code § 11-366)
7-1-7: SIDEWALK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Businesses To Keep Clean: It shall be unlawful for any owners or
occupants of any place of business to refuse, neglect or fail to cause the
sidewalk abutting thereon to be swept or cleaned each morning before the hour
of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (1976 Code § 11-367)
   B.   Placing Goods For Sale Or Show: No goods, wares, or merchandise shall
be placed, maintained or permitted for sale or show in or on any parking area,
street, or sidewalk beyond two feet (2') from the front line of the lot,
without first obtaining the written approval of the town council. Such approval
shall be granted only when such sale or show shall be a promotional activity
not exceeding forty eight (48) hours and when participated in by a majority of
firms seeking approval in their business areas. The town council's written
approval shall specifically provide that no goods, wares, or merchandise shall
be placed in such a manner as to leave less than a six foot (6') passageway for
pedestrians. (1976 Code § 11-368)
   C.   Placing Goods For Receipt Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk, any goods,
wares or merchandise which he may be receiving or delivering, without leaving a
foot passageway upon such sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any person
receiving or delivering such goods, wares or merchandise to suffer the same to
be or remain on such sidewalk for a longer period than twenty four (24) hours.
(1976 Code § 11-369; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Playing: Every person who obstructs the sidewalk or street by playing
any game or engaging in any activity which obstructs the free travel thereon is
guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 11-370; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Congregating: It is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for any person or persons to congregate about or upon any
sidewalks, stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or dwelling
house, theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by so doing to obstruct
or interfere with the free passage of persons entering, leaving or occupying
such building or premises. (1976 Code § 11-371; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Inspection
7-2-2: Conform To Established Specifications
7-2-3: Changing Existing Construction
7-2-4: Building Materials In Street; Permit
7-2-5: Mixing Concrete On Paved Streets Or Sidewalks; Permit
7-2-6: Overflowing Of Water
7-2-7: Irrigation Ditches
7-2-8: Removal Of Earth
7-2-9: New Street Construction
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION:
   A.   Required: No person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or
employee, shall construct any permanent sidewalk for public use without first
obtaining from the town clerk a permit to do so. The permit shall specify that
the sidewalk be constructed of cement, the character and quality of the cement,
the consistent parts of the mixture, and the thickness of the walk.
   B.   Unlawful Violation Of Specifications: It shall be unlawful to construct
a sidewalk in violation of the specifications given by a proper town official.
   C.   Inspection: All sidewalks shall be inspected by the superintendent of
streets or his duly authorized representative. (1976 Code § 11-352)
7-2-2: CONFORM TO ESTABLISHED SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, servant, contractor
or employee to construct a street or sidewalk which does not conform to
specifications established by the town engineer or other authorized
representative of the town unless special permission to deviate from such
specification is first obtained from the town council. (1976 Code § 11-351)
7-2-3: CHANGING EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across a sidewalk,
or cut or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter without first
making written application and obtaining from the town clerk a permit to do so.
The acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an agreement on the part of such
person to construct said driveway in accordance with specifications furnished
by the town. (1976 Code § 11-353)
7-2-4: BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use any portion of the public
streets when erecting or repairing any building upon land abutting thereon,
without first making application to and receiving from the town council a
permit for the occupation or use of such portions of streets for such periods
of time and under such limitations and restrictions as may be required by the
town council. Any such permit may be revoked by the town council at any time
when the holder thereof fails to comply with any rule or regulation under which
it is granted, or when, in the opinion of the town council, the public interest
requires such revocation. (1976 Code § 11-354)
7-2-5: MIXING CONCRETE ON PAVED STREETS OR SIDEWALKS; PERMIT:
Unless a permit from the superintendent has been obtained, it shall be unlawful
to:
   A.   Place, Pile Or Permit: Place or pile or permit to be placed or piled,
any sand, gravel, lime, cement, mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance
or mixture, or allow the same to remain on any portion of any paved street or
sidewalk.
   B.   Make, Mix Or Permit: Make or mix or permit to be made or mixed any
mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance or mixture on any portion of
any paved street or sidewalk. (1976 Code § 11-355)
7-2-6: OVERFLOWING OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow water to overflow from any ditch,
canal, well or irrigation stream onto the streets, sidewalks or property of the
town. (1976 Code § 11-356)
7-2-7: IRRIGATION DITCHES:
All owners or occupants of lots in the Town who require water from a ditch for
irrigation or other purposes shall dig ditches, erect flumes, lay pipes and
install culverts, as needed, and maintain the same to convey water under
sidewalks to or from their respective lots. All culverts, ditches, pipes and
flumes conveying water under sidewalks shall meet such reasonable standards and
specifications as may be established by the Superintendent of Streets. (1976
Code § 11-357)
7-2-8: REMOVAL OF EARTH:
No person shall dig, cut or remove any sod or earth from any street or other
public place without permission and/or a permit from the Supervisor of Streets.
(Ord. 18-08, 11-6-2018)
7-2-9: NEW STREET CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Responsibility: It is the responsibility of any person, contractor or
agent desiring a new street access to obtain a permit to construct a street or
roadway and said individuals will assume all expenses incurred in the project.
   B.   Right-Of-Way: A new street shall be placed into an existing designated
road right-of-way and shall be established by an independent survey.
   C.   Building Materials: A roadway shall be established and is required to
extend to the farthest point of the property in accordance with the following
specifications: roadway must be at least twenty six feet (26') wide, vegetation
grubbed off twelve inches (12") deep, have eight inches (8") of pit run, and
four (4") inches of road base gravel compacted to make a drivable surface, and
three and one-half (3 ½) inches of asphalt bringing the road to a Class B
standard.
   D.   Water Drainage: Adequate ditches, culverts as needed for drainage which
meets reasonable standard and specifications as established by an authorized
representative of the Town.
   E.   Emergency Vehicles: Any new street must have adequate space for
emergency vehicles, snow removal equipment, and garbage trucks; including
turning around of such vehicles. (Ord. 16-10, 10-18-2016)
   TURNAROUNDS REQUIRED
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bb8413675fd6b9d0f93422ad736bfe05ffef1c1d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-935.jpg]
 
   F.   Inspection: It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent,
contractor or employee to construct a street which does not conform to
specifications established by the Town Engineer or other authorized
representative of the Town. (Ord. 16-10, 10-18-2016; amd. Ord. 18-08, 11-6-
2018; Ord. 22-02, 3-8-2022)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Requirements
7-3-2: Bond Required
7-3-3: Subject And Excluded Excavations
7-3-4: Standards
7-3-5: Protection Of Public; Barricades
7-3-6: Relocation And Protection Of Utilities
7-3-7: Revocation Or Refusal Of Permit
7-3-8: Exception In Emergency
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to break, excavate,
tunnel, undermine or in any manner affect the surface or base of any street or
to place, deposit or leave upon any street any earth or any other excavated
material obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the street,
unless such person shall first have obtained an excavation permit therefor from
the town clerk. (1976 Code § 11-395)
   B.   Streets And Sidewalks:
      1.   No person shall make any excavation in any street, land or alley or
remove any pavement or other material from any street or improvement thereon
without first obtaining a permit from the town clerk, or other authorized
representative of the town.
      2.   No person shall excavate any sidewalk without first obtaining a
permit from the town clerk, or other authorized personnel. (1976 Code § 11-381;
amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Franchise; Public Utility:
      1.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to waive the
franchise required for any person by town ordinances or laws of Utah. (1976
Code § 11-381)
      2.   Any public utility regulated by the state or holding a franchise
from the town which, in the pursuit of its calling, has frequent occasion to
open or make excavations in streets, may, upon application, receive a general
permit from the town to cover all excavations such utilities may make within
the streets of the town. (1976 Code § 11-395)
7-3-2: BOND REQUIRED:
In order to ensure proper backfill and restoration of surface, the permittee
shall deposit a surety bond in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) with the town clerk, payable to the town; except that a public
utility operating or using any of the streets under a franchise from the town
will not be required to furnish such bond, providing such franchise obligates
the holder thereof to restore the streets and to hold the town harmless in the
event of any injury to any person or damage to any property due to negligence
of such holder in conducting excavation and restoration operations under such
franchise. The required surety bond must be: (1976 Code § 11-394; amd. 2003
Code)
   A.   With good and sufficient surety.
   B.   By a surety company authorized to transact business in the state.
   C.   Satisfactory to the town attorney in form and substance.
   D.   Conditioned upon the permittee's compliance with this chapter in order
to secure and hold the town and its officers harmless against any and all
claims, judgments or other costs arising from the excavation and other work
covered by the excavation permit for which the town, the town council or any
town officer may be made liable by reason of any accident or injury to any
person or property through the fault of the permittee arising out of failure to
properly guard the excavation or for any other negligence of the permittee.
   E.   Conditioned to fill up, restore and place in good and safe condition,
as near as may be to its original condition, and to the satisfaction of the
town, all openings and excavations made in streets, and to maintain any street
where excavation is made in as good condition for the period of twenty four
(24) months after the work shall be done, usual wear and tear excepted, as it
was before the work shall have been done. (1976 Code § 11-394)
7-3-3: SUBJECT AND EXCLUDED EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Types Subject To Provisions: The following types of excavations are
subject to the provisions of this chapter: excavations for installation or
repair of water lines, sewer lines, gas lines, electrical cable and conduits,
telephone cable and conduits, and all other excavations for any other purpose
within the street rights of way of the town or in other public places. (1976
Code § 11-383)
   B.   Types Not Subject To Provisions: The following types of excavations do
not come within the scope of this chapter: excavations of any kind in town
streets in projects designed, contracted for and inspected by the town engineer
or other authorized personnel of the town. (1976 Code § 11-382)
7-3-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Preparation And Cleanup: The pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other
surface shall be cut vertically along the lines forming the trench in such a
manner as to not damage the adjoining pavement or hard surfacing. An undercut
bevel at the rate of one inch (1") per foot of thickness will be provided at
the proposed junction between the old and new surfaces. The portion to be
removed shall be broken up in a manner that will not cause damage to the
pavement outside the limits of the trench. However, any pavement damaged by
operations outside the limits of the trench shall be replaced. All waste
material resulting from the excavation shall be removed immediately from the
site of the work. (1976 Code § 11-384)
   B.   Backfill:
      1.   Materials: Materials for backfill will be of select nature. All
broken concrete, peat, decomposed vegetable matter and similar materials
obtained from excavation will be removed from the site prior to beginning of
backfilling. All backfill will be placed in layers not over eight inches (8")
loose measure in thickness. Compaction will be obtained by mechanical rollers,
mechanical tampers or similar means. Material for backfilling will have optimum
moisture to ensure compaction to a degree equivalent to that of the undisturbed
ground in which the trench was dug. Jetting or internal vibrating methods of
compacting sand fill or similar methods of compacting sand or similar granular
free draining materials will be permitted.
      2.   Density: The density (dry) of the backfill under pavements,
sidewalks, curbs or other structures will be not less than that existing prior
to excavation. The fill shall be restored and placed in a good condition which
will prevent settling. (1976 Code § 11-385)
   C.   Restoration Of Hard Surfaces:
      1.   General: All street surfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways
or other hard surfaces falling in the line of the excavation which must be
removed in performance of the work shall be restored in kind by the excavator,
unless otherwise directed by the town council, in accordance with the
specifications contained herein governing the various types of surfaces
involved.
      2.   Protection Of Paved Surfaces: In order to avoid unnecessary damage
to paved surfaces, track equipment shall use pavement pads when operating on or
crossing paved surfaces.
      3.   Time: In traffic lanes of paved streets, the excavator shall provide
temporary gravel surfaces or cold mulch in good condition immediately after
backfill has been placed, and shall complete permanent repairs on the street,
sidewalk, curb, gutter, driveway and other surfaces, within five (5) days from
the date of completion of the backfill, except for periods:
         a.   When permanent paving material is not available.
         b.   When weather conditions prevent permanent replacement.
         c.   When an extension of time is granted by the superintendent of
streets.
      4.   Temporary Repair: If temporary repair has been made on the paved
street with gravel and a permanent repair cannot be made within the time
specified above due to any of the above mentioned conditions, then the
excavator shall be required to replace the gravel with cold mulch as soon as
possible. (1976 Code § 11-386)
   D.   Restoring Bituminous On Concrete Or Asphalt Surfaces:
      1.   Temporary Grade Surface: Where excavations are made in paved areas,
the surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface. The gravel shall
be placed deep enough to provide a minimum of six inches (6") below the bottom
of the bituminous or concrete surface. Normally, this will require nine inches
(9") of gravel for bituminous surfaces, twelve inches (12") of gravel for
concrete, and concrete base for asphalt wearing surfaces. The gravel shall be
placed in the trench at the time it is backfilled. The temporary gravel surface
shall be maintained by blading, sprinkling, rolling, adding gravel, to maintain
a safe, uniform surface satisfactory to the building inspector until the final
surface is laid. Excess material shall be removed from the premises
immediately. Material for use on temporary gravel surfaces shall be obtained
from sound, tough, durable gravel or rock meeting the following requirements
for gradings:
 
Passing 1-inch sieve   100 percent
Passing 3/4-inch sieve 85-100 percent
Passing no. 4 sieve    45-65 percent
Passing no. 10 sieve   30-50 percent
Passing no. 200 sieve  5-10 percent
 
      2.   Bituminous Surface: The exposed edges of existing pavement shall be
primed with type MC-1 bituminous material. The type, grade and mixture of the
asphalt to be used for street surface replacement shall be approved by the
superintendent of streets. The thickness shall be equal to the adjacent surface
thickness but not less than three inches (3"). The complete surface shall not
deviate more than one-half inch (1/2") between old and new work. (1976 Code §
11-387)
   E.   Concrete Surfaces: The subbase for concrete surfaces shall be sprinkled
just before placing the concrete. Joints and surfaces shall be made to match
the original surfaces. The thickness of concrete shall be equal to the adjacent
concrete but in no case less than six inches (6") thick. The mixing, cement,
water content, proportion, placement and curing of the concrete will be
approved by the superintendent of streets. In no case shall the concrete have
less compressive strength than three thousand (3,000) pounds per square inch at
the end of twenty eight (28) days. (1976 Code § 11-388)
   F.   Concrete Base, Bituminous Wearing Surfaces: This type of surfacing
shall be constructed as above described. (1976 Code § 11-389)
   G.   Gravel Surfaces: Trenches excavated through gravel surfaced area, such
as gravel roads and shoulders and unpaved driveways, shall have the gravel
restored and maintained as described in subsection D of this section, except
that the gravel shall be a minimum of one inch (1") more than the thickness of
the existing gravel. (1976 Code § 11-390)
   H.   Jetting Pipe: Jetting pipe by means of water under pressure or
compressed air, is permitted only when approved by the town. (1976 Code § 11-
393)
7-3-5: PROTECTION OF PUBLIC; BARRICADES:
Excavation operations shall be conducted in such a manner that a minimum amount
of interference or interruption of street traffic will result. Inconvenience to
residents and businesses fronting on public streets shall be minimized.
Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades shall be available and used where
necessary to prevent accidents involving property or persons. Barricades must
be in place until all of the excavator's equipment is removed from site and
excavation has been backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface is in place.
From sunset to sunrise all barricades and excisions must be clearly outlined by
acceptable warning lights, lanterns, flares and other devices. Police and fire
departments shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any
planned excavation requiring street closures or detour. (1976 Code § 11-391)
7-3-6: RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES:
An excavator shall not interfere with any existing utility without the written
consent of the town council and without advance notice to the owner of the
utility. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing utility, it shall be
done by its owner unless the owner otherwise directs. No utility, whether owned
by the town or by a private enterprise, shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of such work be borne by the permittee or an
expressly written agreement is made whereby the utility owner and the excavator
make other arrangements relating to such cost. The permittee shall support and
protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other
apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation work, and shall do
everything necessary to support, sustain and protect them under, over, along or
across the work. In case any of the pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus
should be damaged (and for this purpose pipe coating or other encasement or
devices are to be considered as part of a substructure), they shall be repaired
by the agency or person owning them, but the utility owner shall be reimbursed
for the expense of such repairs by the permittee. It is the intent of this
chapter that the permittee shall assume all liability for damage to
substructures, and any resulting damage or injury to anyone because of such
substructure damage and such assumption of liability shall be deemed a
contractual obligation which the permittee accepts upon acceptance of an
excavation permit. The town need not be made a party to any action because of
this chapter. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground utilities and protect the same against damage.
(1976 Code § 11-392)
7-3-7: REVOCATION OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT:
All permits shall be subject to revocation and the town may refuse to issue a
permit for failure of the permittee or applicant to abide by the terms and
conditions of this chapter. (1976 Code § 11-395)
7-3-8: EXCEPTION IN EMERGENCY:
Excavation permits will not be requested prior to excavation in case of
emergency endangering life or property, providing the town is notified as soon
as practicable and a permit is applied for upon the next regular working day
following the emergency. (1976 Code § 11-395)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; USE AND CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Unlawful Use
7-4-2: Repair After Unlawful Use
7-4-3: Franchise; Easement
7-4-4: Acts Exempted
7-4-5: Town Square; Usage Restrictions
7-4-6: Park Rules And Regulations
7-4-7: Rules and Regulations for Personal Use of Public Property
7-4-1: UNLAWFUL USE:
Unless authorized by permit or other written authorization issued by the town
or unless authority is granted by provisions of this code or other ordinance of
the town now or hereafter enacted, it shall be a class B misdemeanor and
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for any person to: (1976 Code § 8-111; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   Property Controlled By Town: Construct, lay, excavate, erect, operate
or maintain over, under, across, in or through any property owned or controlled
by the town, any utility, canal, ditch, construction or building.
   B.   Restricted Areas: Enter upon any property of the town contrary to any
posting or marking restricting or prohibiting use of the area.
   C.   Damage To Property: Intentionally use or perform acts upon property of
the town which materially impairs, alters or damages the property. (1976 Code §
8-111)
7-4-2: REPAIR AFTER UNLAWFUL USE:
The town council, in addition to any other penalty which may be imposed, may
order any person who has damaged, altered or changed any property of the town
to repair or restore the property to its original condition prior to the
damage, alteration or change and shall be entitled to seek civil damages to
compensate for such damage, alteration or change, including costs of recovering
such damages. (1976 Code § 8-112; amd. 2003 Code)
7-4-3: FRANCHISE; EASEMENT:
   A.   Provisions: The town council may grant to any person a franchise or
easement on such terms and conditions as it deems reasonable, for the purpose
of entering upon, constructing, building, operating and maintaining any
business or for other use of the property of the town, and the provisions of
sections
7-4-1 and
7-4-2 of this chapter shall not apply to the extent such provisions are waived,
qualified or made inapplicable to the rights or privileges granted in the
franchise ordinance or easement.
   B.   In Writing: Any franchise or easement granted by the town shall be in
writing and any franchise or easement not in writing shall be void. (1976 Code
§ 8-113)
7-4-4: ACTS EXEMPTED:
It shall not be a violation of this chapter where any person uses the public
property of the town in the manner or for the purpose for which such property
has been made available for public use. (1976 Code § 8-114)
7-4-5: TOWN SQUARE; USAGE RESTRICTIONS:
The Clarkston Town Square (including the playground area, pavilions, ball
diamond, volleyball pit, and all property considered part of the "town square")
shall be closed for use from dusk until dawn with the exception of activities
authorized by the governing body or its agents. (Ord. 04-06, 5-13-2004)
7-4-6: PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   No pets allowed on town square grounds unless they are leashed.
   B.   Town square is closed from dusk until dawn.
   C.   No alcoholic beverages or public consumption of alcohol or illegal
drugs.
   D.   No littering. Use trash cans and dumpsters or pack it out.
   E.   No unauthorized weapons, firearms, or fireworks.
   F.   The sale of goods and services requires approval from town council.
   G.   Motorized vehicles allowed only on roads and in parking areas, this
includes ATVs, motorcycles, and snowmobiles, excepting maintenance vehicles
performing maintenance for the town.
   H.   Fires may only be constructed in firepit at east pavilion. Fires must
be completely extinguished when done. Charcoal grills must be at least twelve
inches (12") off the ground and may not be placed on grass. Thoroughly
extinguish all charcoals, dispose of properly or pack it out.
   I.   Sprinklers including hoses, faucets, and automatic systems shall not be
moved or tampered with.
   J.   Digging of any kind is prohibited. (Ord. 16-03, 10-6-2015; amd. Ord.
21-04, 4-20-2021)
7-4-7:  RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PERSONAL USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Purpose: This shall be known as the Clarkston Town Personal Use of
Public Property Policy, or the "Policy." It has been adopted for the purpose of
regulating the use of town-owned, leased, held, operated or managed equipment,
vehicles, office supplies, devices, tools, facilities and other town-owned
personal and real property (herein "town property").
   B.   Background/Effective Date: The Utah Legislature adopted, and the
Governor signed into law, H.B. 163, with an effective date of July 1, 2019.
H.B. 163 deals with the misuse of public funds and, more specifically, public
property, inasmuch as public property was not previously included in the
criminal statute to the same extent as public funds. Since the misuse of public
property can result in criminal charges, including felony charges, the town
desires to adopt this policy to clarify what may constitute a misuse of town
property and to authorize the personal use of town property under certain
circumstances. This policy shall become effective upon the date this policy is
approved by the governing body of the town.
   C.   Definitions: For purposes of this policy the following words will have
the following meanings:
 
           An elected official of the town; an appointed official of the town; an
           employee, consultant, or independent contractor of the town; or a person
PUBLIC     (including an individual, an entity, or an organization) hired or paid by the
SERVANT:   town to perform a government function. See Utah Code Ann. § 76-1-601(14). A
           person becomes a "public servant" upon the person's election, appointment,
           contracting or other selection, regardless of whether the person has begun to
           officially occupy the position of a public servant.
           Interchangeable and mean and include any real or personal property that is
           owned, leased, held, operated or managed by the town, including public
           property that has been transferred by the town to an independent contractor
PUBLIC     for the purpose of providing a program or service for or on behalf of the
PROPERTY   town. In the event and to the extent the public property is consumed or
and TOWN   rendered effectively valueless to the town as a program or service is provided
PROPERTY:  to the town by an independent contractor or as the public property is utilized
           by town employees, the property shall cease to be public property and may be
           disposed of as the independent contractor or town management deems fit, unless
           otherwise directed by the town. See Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-101(5).
           Any personal use that is authorized pursuant to this policy. As provided in
           Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-402(1), a public servant may use town property for a
           personal matter and personal use of town property is allowed when: (a) (i)
           title public servant is authorized to use or possess the public property to
           fulfill the public servant's duties owed to the town; (ii) the primary purpose
           of the public servant using or possessing the public property is to fulfill
           the public servant's duties to the town; (iii) the personal use is in
           accordance with this policy; and (iv) the public servant uses and possesses
           the town property in a lawful manner in accordance with this policy; or (b)
AUTHORIZED the personal use of town property is incidental, such as when: (i) the value
PERSONAL   provided to the town by the public servant's use or possession of the public
USE:       property for a public purpose substantially outweighs the personal benefit
           received by the public servant's personal incidental use; and (ii) the
           incidental use is not prohibited by an applicable state or federal law. Any
           lawful personal use of town property by a public servant that is not
           prohibited by applicable state or federal law is specifically authorized and
           allowed by this policy. The town recognizes that third parties may benefit
           indirectly or directly from a public servant's personal use, or official use,
           of the town's public property, which benefit is specifically condoned and
           authorized by this policy so long as and to the extent that the benefit does
           not otherwise violate an applicable law, rule or ordinance, including but not
           limited to state statutory law and rules and regulations of the town.
 
   D.   Personal Use:
      1.     Devices: Communication and other devices, such as mobile phones,
landline phones, and computers, that are owned by the town may be used by an
employee for occasional, incidental personal activities such as calling home,
making other personal calls during a break, accepting occasional incoming
personal calls, etc., provided that such personal usage is not excessive.
Similarly, town owned computers and smart phones may be used for personal text
messaging, e-mails and other personal uses, provided that such use is limited,
as much as reasonably possible, to break periods or periods when the employee
is not "on the clock," and is not excessive.
      2.    Physical Facilities: Personal activities by public servants at
town-owned, leased, managed and/or maintained facilities, such as meeting
family members or friends for short periods of time, are allowed, provided they
do not become excessive or disruptive.
      3.    Office Supplies/Shop Supplies/etc: Office supplies, shop supplies
and other town-owned supplies and items of personal property are intended for
uses that directly benefit the town. Incidental personal use of the same by
public servants is allowed, such as the use of town-owned office supplies
including pens, pencils and paper, provided that such incidental personal use
is not excessive.
      4.    Miscellaneous: Any town property that does not fall under any of
the above classifications may nevertheless be utilized by a public servant for
incidental personal uses.
   E.   Subsequent Modifications/Higher Law:
      1.    Policy Not Exhaustive: The governing body of the town reserves the
right to add to, delete from or change this policy at any time. The policy
stated above is not necessarily inclusive because, among other reasons,
unanticipated circumstances may arise and other rules or regulations of the
town may apply. The town may vary from the policy, subject to the application
of applicable state and federal laws, if the circumstances so justify.
      2.     Higher Law to Control: In the event of any conflict between the
policy and any applicable federal or state law, rule or regulation, the law,
rule or regulation, including amendments and modifications thereto, shall
control to the extent of such inconsistency. (Ord. 19-05, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 5
CEMETERY RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Town Cemetery
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Applicability
7-5-4: Cemetery Superintendent
7-5-5: Cemetery Sexton
7-5-6: Cemetery Clerk
7-5-7: Burials
7-5-8: Fees And Charges
7-5-9: Lot Sales
7-5-10: Perpetual Care Lots
7-5-11: Nonperpetual Care Lots
7-5-12: Indigents
7-5-13: Rules And Regulations
7-5-14: Care And Maintenance; Right To Enter
7-5-15: Unlawful Acts
7-5-16: Violations; Penalty
7-5-17: Use Of Amphitheater
7-5-18: Cremains
7-5-1: TOWN CEMETERY:
The burial ground of the town shall be known and designated by the name of
Clarkston cemetery. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases shall have the following meanings unless the
context otherwise clearly requires:
   CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT: The council member responsible for the direction
and supervision of the cemetery unless otherwise appointed by the town council.
   LOT: Means and includes the partial lots or single graves in the town
cemetery.
   LOT OWNER OR PURCHASER AND GRAVE OWNER OR PURCHASER: The owner or purchaser
of burial privileges or the collateral right of use of any burial lot evidenced
by a deed or burial right for described lot or by proved and recognized descent
or devise from the original owner. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-3: APPLICABILITY:
All cemeteries owned and/or maintained by the town or which may hereafter be
acquired by the town wherever situated are declared subject to the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-4: CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of cemetery
superintendent.
   B.   Duties: The cemetery superintendent shall have the general supervision
and administration of the town cemetery, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Recommending to the town council such additional rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the operation, maintenance, use and
protection of the cemetery.
      2.   Recommending to the town council needed or proposed subdivisions of
the cemetery into lots and gravesites.
      3.   Contracting the opening and closing of all graves. (Ord. 07-04, 7-
12-2007)
7-5-5: CEMETERY SEXTON:
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of cemetery
sexton.
   B.   Duties: The cemetery sexton shall have the general maintenance and care
of the town cemetery, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Keeping in proper repair the enclosure around the cemetery and
preventing its being entered by animals and, so far as practical, preventing
the destruction or defacing of any tablet or marker placed or erected therein.
      2.   Marking any graves in the cemetery and preparing to be opened upon
application being made by the cemetery clerk, or by any person having the right
to make such application.
      3.   Removing floral pieces or displays left on any grave as deemed
necessary to the appearance of the cemetery, but such floral pieces or displays
shall not be removed sooner than seven (7) days after original placement except
in emergency. All flowers and decorations picked up are disposed of.
      4.   Keeping the streets, alleys, walks and avenues in the cemetery in
good order and unobstructed.
      5.   Erecting a suitable marker firmly set upon the northwest corner of
each lot with the number of the lot inscribed thereon and which location shall
be shown on the cemetery records.
      6.   Watering and mowing and trimming of grass and keeping in good repair
articles or equipment that are used for such.
      7.   Be present at the time any marker or monument is placed on any lot
in the cemetery. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-6: CEMETERY CLERK:
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of cemetery
clerk.
   B.   Duties: The cemetery clerk, coordinating with the town clerk, shall
have the general supervision and administration of the cemetery records,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Maintaining a record of the location of the graves and preventing
any lot from being used beyond its capacity.
      2.   Keeping a duplicate plat of the cemetery and, at the request of any
person wishing to purchase any of the lots or parts of lots, pointing out any
of the lots or parts of lots for sale.
      3.   Issuing a receipt, after payment of the lot price has been received,
and a certificate of burial rights which shall describe the gravesite(s) to
which the right to burial is granted. A separate certificate shall be issued
for each block and lot. The certificate shall be signed by the mayor and the
cemetery clerk. The original copy shall have the town seal affixed.
      4.   Collecting data and reporting deaths monthly to the local health
department.
      5.   Entering a complete record of deaths in the cemetery database. Upon
receipt of the completed burial request the cemetery clerk will sign as
received. This will serve as the certificate of burial and may be provided to
the cemetery sexton as needed along with a plot map showing the location of the
grave.
      6.   Recommending to the town council from time to time a record keeping
policy to provide for consistency and accuracy in records.
      7.   Providing a report of cemetery record activity to the cemetery
superintendent on a regular basis. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-7: BURIALS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   Before any deceased person or cremains of any deceased person is
buried in the town cemetery, a burial request shall be completed and signed by
the responsible party and submitted to the cemetery clerk. This will serve as
the certificate of burial. In addition to the burial request, when the body is
cremated a photocopy of the death certificate or a certificate from the
crematory stating the name and address of said crematory, information on the
deceased, and the deceased tag number shall be submitted to the cemetery clerk.
These will serve as the certificate of burial.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of a deceased
person in the town cemetery without first obtaining a certificate of burial
right for the lot used or producing satisfactory evidence of a right to burial
based on a properly acquired certificate of burial right.
   B.   Registration:
      1.   Before the remains or cremains of any deceased person may be buried
in the town cemetery, the relatives or person having charge of the deceased
shall provide the cemetery clerk with a written statement which shall be filed
by the Cemetery Clerk, which statement shall contain, if known, information
about the deceased regarding his or her name, when and where born, name of
parents, name of spouse, names of children or siblings, veteran information,
the date and cause of death, age at death, the name of the attending physician,
date of burial, name and address of crematory if applicable, name of lot owner,
and the description of the location of the grave.
      2.   One adult body or two (2) child size bodies, or two (2) cremains
will be allowed per full body gravesite and one (1) cremains will be allowed
per cremation grave site. No burials will be allowed above or below an existing
grave. No burials will be accepted on Sunday or on any Federal or State
Holiday. The opening of a grave requires a four-day notice and commences after
the monument has been removed, if applicable.
   C.   Vault Required:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to be buried in the cemetery unless
the casket shall be placed in a vault made of concrete, fiberglass, steel or
brick lined or of such other material approved by the Town Council,
substantially constructed and covered with a similar durable material.
      2.   No wood shall be used as a permanent part of the construction of any
part of the vault.
   D.   Vault Optional For Cremains:
      1.   The cremated remains of any person may be buried without a vault,
but must be placed in an urn or other sealed container provided by the
mortuary.
      2.   It is unlawful for cremains of any person to be scattered on the
cemetery grounds. All cremated remains shall be in ground burials.
   E.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   It is an infraction subject to penalty, as provided in section
 7-5-16 of this chapter, for any person to:
         a.   Disinter any body buried in any cemetery, except under the
direction of the Cemetery Superintendent who shall, before disinterment,
require a written permission from the County Health Office, the Town Council,
and the owner of the lot or his or her heirs, which written authorization shall
be filed and preserved in a record kept for such purposes.
         b.   Disinter or remove the body of a person who has died from a
contagious disease within two (2) years after the date of burial, unless the
body was buried in a hermetically sealed casket or vault and is found to be so
incased at the time of disinterment.
      2.   It is an infraction subject to penalty, as provided in section
7-5-16 of this chapter, to inter anything other than the remains or cremains of
human bodies in cemeteries.
      3.   It is an infraction subject to penalty, as provided in section 7-5-
16 of this chapter, to bury the body of any person or cremains of any person
within the Town except in the Town Cemetery or a private cemetery, unless by
special permission of the Town Council under such rules and regulations that it
may prescribe. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007; amd. Ord. 17-05, 5-16-2017; Ord. 22-01,
2-15-2022)
7-5-8: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Established; Authority: The Town Council shall from time to time by
resolution fix the size of lots, the price at which burial rights shall be sold
and the fees which shall be charged for the various cemetery services to be
provided.
   B.   Resident Versus Nonresident: The Town Council may vary costs for
services depending on resident or nonresident status as follows:
      1.   Resides in the boundary of Clarkston district limits.
      2.   Resides in the boundary of Clarkston district limits but is
currently away in military service.
      3.   Resides in the boundary of Clarkston district limits but is being
cared for at a medical facility or other location for health reasons.
   C.   Collection: The Cemetery Clerk, or other such persons authorized by the
Town Council, are authorized and required to collect prices and fees for the
opening and closing of graves or other services which shall include, but not be
limited to, properly disinterring bodies and properly restoring the earth and
grounds, recording each burial, disinterment or removal, and raised monument
privileges. The fees shall be determined by the Town Council from time to time
by resolution.
   D.   Opening Graves:
      1.   No grave shall be opened in the Town Cemetery until payment of a fee
for the labor and expense in so opening the grave shall be paid.
      2.   The presentation of a receipt from the Cemetery Clerk, or persons
designated by the Town Council, when presented to the Cemetery sexton, shall be
authority to open a grave for the burial of a deceased person. However, upon a
contract being entered into between any mortician and the town wherein the
mortician agrees to be responsible and liable for fees for the opening of a
grave, and wherein the mortician will be personally liable for such fees, the
cemetery clerk or authorized person may give the cemetery sexton authority to
open graves without the presentation of a receipt from the cemetery clerk or
authorized person. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-9: LOT SALES:
   A.   Authority; Records: The cemetery clerk, and such other person as the
town council may designate, are authorized to sell the use of lots in the
municipal cemetery for burial purposes only and to collect all sums arising
from the sale. The cemetery clerk shall keep a complete record of all sales,
which record shall describe the location of the lot purchased and the price
paid therefor. The cemetery clerk or designated person shall deliver to each
purchaser a certificate of burial rights for each lot purchased, which
certificate shall, among other things, describe the location of the lot, and
the purchase price as provided in the prevailing fee schedule.
   B.   Purchase Price, Scope Of: A certificate and rights to burial shall be
exempt from execution, taxation or assessment for care and maintenance from and
after full payment of the purchase price, except as may be provided by the town
council after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section.
Payments made pursuant to this section shall not be construed to be payment for
cemetery services other than perpetual care or prepaid continued maintenance.
   C.   Services Included: Payment of the burial fees shall be deemed to
include the filling of the grave, the placing of topsoil upon the grave,
seeding the grave with grass (or resodding), and watering and cutting the
grass. No other services are included.
   D.   Improvements: No other improvements, changes or service(s) shall be
made on any lot without the certificate holder or his heirs first submitting to
and receiving from the cemetery superintendent, with the approval of the town
council, written approval for such improvements, changes or services, which
improvements, changes or services shall be subject to the rules and regulations
promulgated by the town council.
   E.   Lots Restricted:
      1.   The sale of lots shall be restricted to four (4) burial spaces per
head of household. Special exceptions will be considered upon request.
      2.   It is prohibited for Clarkston residents to buy cemetery lots for
any non-resident. This includes relatives. Non-residents shall pay the Non-
resident Grave Sale Rate.
      3.   The percentage of full burial non-resident lot sales shall not
exceed twenty-five (25%) percent of the total available lots. From and after
September 1, 2023 the total number of non-residents lots that can be sold is
one-hundred (100).
      4.   The sale of lots will be confined to existing platted areas.
   F.   Restrictions Of Resale:
      1.   From and after September 1, 2023, the lots sold by this municipality
shall not be further sold, transferred, conveyed or assigned to any person
except the municipality unless authorized by the city recorder or cemetery
clerk. The municipality agrees to buy back any municipal cemetery grave lot
which it may hereafter sell. The repurchase of such lots shall be for the
original price paid by the purchaser, or the current selling price of the lot,
whichever is less, less a recording fee as set by the prevailing fee schedule.
      2.   Whenever a certificate to burial rights or lots reverts to the
municipality, as provided for in this chapter, or becomes vested in the
municipality for any reason, before new certificates are issued, the original
certificate shall be canceled, or in the absence of original certificate a
quitclaim deed signed by the owner or his or her heirs and the record shall be
so changed.
      3.   The certificates shall be issued and signed by the mayor and shall
be attested by the cemetery clerk. All lots or parts of lots, as provided in
this section, together with all improvements, shall be exempt from execution
and from taxation and assessment for care and maintenance charges from and
after said payment.
      4.   Cemetery lots are not intended for purchase as an investment for
personal gain, therefore at the discretion of the cemetery clerk, sale of lots
may be denied until approved by the town council.
   G.   Nonuse For Sixty Years: Anyone claiming an interest in any certificate
of title or certificate of right to burial to any lot or other portion of the
town cemetery who has not so used the respective lot or portion of the cemetery
for burial purposes for more than sixty (60) years from the date when such
person claims the certificate was first obtained, then such person must submit
in writing to the town within sixty (60) days of service of notice (or if not
personally served, then thirty (30) days from the publication of the resolution
on the public notice website), a satisfactory declaration of interest in the
lot or portion of the cemetery, and an intention to use the respective lot or
portion of the cemetery for a burial. If such a declaration is not received by
the claimant within the time period described, then all interest in the
respective lot or portion of the cemetery shall revert back to the town to be
resold, all pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 8-5-6.
(Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007; amd. Ord. 21-07, 8-3-2021; Ord. 23-08, 9-19-2023)
7-5-10: PERPETUAL CARE LOTS:
   A.   Scope Of Care: The town will not be responsible for inadvertent
scratches and chips that occur from routine maintenance. The essential
perpetual care that the town agrees to give shall consist of care of the
cemetery generally, and shall include, but is not limited to, mowing of all
lots and graves at reasonable intervals, resodding, seeding, and filling in
sunken graves, sodding the surface of the graves to lot level, removing dead
flowers and trimming trees and shrubbery when necessary, raking and cleaning
the lots, but shall not include raising, leveling, repairing, or replacing
markers or memorial structures of any nature, except when the damage is
directly caused by the town. (Ord. 11-05, 12-5-2011)
   B.   Contracting For Care: No grave shall be hereafter sold in the cemetery
of the town until perpetual care upon the lot where the grave is to be sold
shall have perpetual care thereon paid. Should it be the desire of any person
to have a grave opened and the body interred therein and perpetual care shall
not have been previously paid in full for the lot therein, the person shall pay
the full price of perpetual care, as outlined in subsection F of this section.
   C.   Annual Maintenance Fee: The town shall have the power to fix, by
resolution, a fee, in addition to the purchase price charged and paid at the
time of purchase, for the annual maintenance and care of a cemetery lot or
portion thereof from any person now owning a cemetery lot or portion thereof,
when appropriate, and from any person purchasing a cemetery lot or portion
thereof after the effective date hereof. The imposition of such a fee shall be
by specific action of the town council, as it is the intention of the town
council, at the time these amendments are adopted, that the fees paid at the
time of purchase shall be all that is charged a purchaser for the maintenance
and upkeep of the lot or portion thereof purchased. The town will provide the
care referred to in this section without further charge, until further action
by the council as provided in this subsection. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
   D.   Fund Created; Use:
      1.   There hereby is established a perpetual care fund according to the
laws of the state and this chapter. All funds received from the sale of
perpetual care services shall be placed in a special perpetual care fund,
invested in compliance with the laws of the state and used for the purposes
herein provided.
      2.   The principal portion of the fund shall be part of a trust fund. The
principal of the fund will be protected so that it can continue to create
income needed in the future.
      3.   The interest accrued from the perpetual care fund shall be used to
help pay the upkeep, development, and other expenses of maintaining the
cemetery. (Ord. 11-05, 12-5-2011)
      4.   The town may borrow from the fund from time to time, but any funds
borrowed shall be repaid to the fund with interest thereon at the prevailing
rate paid by the town to borrow funds from commercial lenders. The interest
rate shall be reviewed and adjusted annually. The total amount borrowed may not
exceed an amount greater than twenty five percent (25%) of the existing balance
in the perpetual care fund. (Ord. 16-01, 7-7-2015)
   E.   Duties Of Officials:
      1.   Treasurer: It shall be the duty of the town treasurer to keep an
accurate record of the perpetual care trust fund account, including
investments, to see that the principal portion thereof is properly invested in
accordance with resolutions of the town council and the laws of the state, and
to advise the mayor when funds are available for investment in the amount of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more. The mayor shall advise the town
council of the availability of such funds.
      2.   Town Council: It shall be the duty of the town council, when funds
are available for investment, to direct by resolution all purchases of
securities for the perpetual care fund or to name a suitable trustee for such
investment.
      3.   Investment Income: All interest accrued and other income from
investments held in the perpetual care fund shall be annually credited to the
cemetery account of the Clarkston Town general fund for use in providing the
perpetual care as required herein. (Ord. 11-05, 12-5-2011)
   F.   Fees:
      1.   The fee for perpetual care for each grave is fifty dollars ($50.00),
which shall be paid at the time of purchase.
      2.   Gravesites cannot be transferred from one person to another until
the perpetual care fee is paid.
      3.   The cemetery clerk shall keep a record of what lots have had
perpetual care fees paid. The town may alter this system from time to time, but
no lot on which the fee has been paid shall be reassessed. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-
2007)
7-5-11: NONPERPETUAL CARE LOTS:
   A.   Reversion Of Nonpaying Lots:
      1.   When any owner of any lot or portion of a lot in the cemetery shall
have failed to pay the cost of services rendered by the town or its employees
in watering, beautifying, maintaining or caring for any lots or portions
thereof in the town cemetery for which perpetual care has not been purchased in
accordance with the provision of this chapter, and such failure to pay has
continued for a period of six (6) months, the town may cancel the owner's
certificate or deed representing rights to burial on the unoccupied lots or
portions of a lot and causing ownership of a lot or portions thereof to revert
back to the town cemetery by following the procedure set forth in subsection B
of this section.
   B.   Procedure For Reversion Back To Town:
      1.   The town may terminate the owner's right to use of unoccupied lot or
lots in the town cemetery when there has been a six (6) month failure to pay
the costs of maintenance provided by the town in the following manner:
         a.   The town council shall fix a time and place of hearing before the
town council at which the owner shall be given the opportunity to present good
cause as to why his right to future use of the lot or lots involved shall not
be terminated and as to why the ownership of the lot or portions of lot shall
not revert back to the town for resale by it.
         b.   A notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to forfeit
the owner's interest in the lot or portion of the lot shall be given by
personal delivery of a written notice of the time, place and purpose of the
meeting of the town council or by mailing a copy of the notice to the last
known address of the owner or owners.
            In the absence of an ability to make personal delivery of the
written notice to the owner or owners, a notice of the hearing to forfeit
rights to said lot or portions of a lot shall be published at least once in a
newspaper having general circulation in the county. The publication shall be
made at least three (3) weeks prior to the date of the hearing.
         c.   If the owner is known to be deceased, then mailing of notice or
delivery of notice shall be made to the last known address of any known heirs.
         d.   Copies of the notice shall also be posted in a conspicuous place
in the offices of the town.
         e.   At the time and place set for the hearing before the town
council, the town council shall give the owner or owners an opportunity to be
heard, a right to present witnesses and to submit evidence showing cause why
the lot or portion of the lot shall not be forfeited to the town.
         f.   After due consideration of all the facts presented at such
hearing, the town council may order, if it finds that there has been a failure
to make payment of such costs or if no satisfactory arrangement has been
proffered for making the immediate payment of such costs, that the lot or
portions of the lot shall revert to the town for resale and that all of the
rights and privileges of the owner in the lot or lots are terminated.
      2.   Thereafter, the town may make sale of the lots in the same manner as
it makes sales of all other lots within the cemetery. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-12: INDIGENTS:
   A.   The town council may by resolution designate a portion of the town
cemetery to the burial of indigents. Whenever it is made to appear to the mayor
by proof submitted to him by the cemetery clerk that any person who has died
does not have an estate sufficient to pay the purchase price of a lot in the
cemetery, and that the nearest relative or representative of such deceased
person desires to have the body of such deceased interred in the cemetery, the
mayor may grant burial space for such deceased person at the request made to
him by the cemetery clerk.
   B.   The mayor shall communicate his decision to both the cemetery clerk and
the cemetery superintendent. The mayor shall give report of this decision,
whether affirmative or negative, to the town council at its next regular
meeting. All strangers without funds or other persons who may die in the town
may be granted the privilege granted herein. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-13: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority To Regulate; Procedure:
      1.   The town council may promulgate by resolution such additional rules
and regulations concerning the care, use, operation and maintenance of the
cemetery as it shall deem necessary.
      2.   The cemetery clerk may from time to time under the direction of the
town council compile and publish a booklet of rules and regulations for the
convenience of the purchasers of lots in the town cemetery. Such rules and
regulations shall constitute a part of the terms and conditions under which
owners and users may utilize the cemetery.
      3.   Any changes in the rules and regulations shall be adopted by the
town council before such changes shall be official.
   B.   Lots Sold: Every lot or single grave sold is subject to rules and
regulations that have been or may be adopted. The rules and regulations shall
be subject to such changes as are found necessary for the protection of lot
owners, the remains of the dead and the preservation of the cemetery.
   C.   Traffic Control:
      1.   The provisions of the town traffic ordinances relative to the
operation of vehicles and conduct of pedestrians shall be in effect in the
cemetery, except as otherwise modified by this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive within the town
cemetery at a speed greater than ten (10) miles per hour.
   D.   Children: Children under the age of eight (8) years shall not be
allowed in cemeteries unless accompanied by their parents or other adults,
except for the purposes of attending authorized funerals or, in the company of
adults, placing flowers on the grave of a deceased relative or friend, or
performing any other customary evidence of respect in accordance with their
religious principles.
   E.   Animals: No animal shall be allowed in any cemetery except in the
confines of a vehicle and must be at all times retained within the confines of
said vehicle while the vehicle remains in the cemetery.
      1.   Exceptions: Requests for exceptions to this subsection E may be made
in writing to the town council prior to the special event. The town council is
hereby given authority to approve exceptions to this subsection E for special
events. Exceptions include the following:
         a.   Any dog duly or properly trained to assist those who have sight
or hearing impairment and acting in this capacity.
         b.   Any dog especially trained to assist officials of government
agencies in the performance of their duties and are owned by such agencies.
   F.   Decorum: Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment and
repose of the dead. Strict observance of decorum due such a place shall be
required of all persons.
   G.   Errors In Opening Graves: Under no circumstances will the town assume
responsibility for errors in opening graves when orders are given by telephone.
(Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-14: CARE AND MAINTENANCE; RIGHT TO ENTER:
The town reserves the right to enter upon any grave and to perform all work
necessary for the care and upkeep of all lots and graves in its cemeteries.
(Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-15: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Injury To Property:
      1.   It is a class B misdemeanor for any person to tie or attempt to tie
any horse, animal or motor vehicle to any monument, gravestone, tablet, marker,
tree, shrub, fence or enclosure on the premises of the cemetery for the purpose
of injuring, defacing or attempting the removal of same.
      2.   It shall be an infraction subject to penalty as provided in section
7-5-16 of this chapter for any person to injure, deface, break, destroy or
remove any headstone, tombstone, monument, tree, shrub or any other property in
the cemetery, unless authorized by the cemetery superintendent.
   B.   Landscaping By Private Persons: Except as provided by the rules and
regulations of the town council, it is unlawful for any person to erect or
maintain any fence, corner post, coping or boundary of any kind, to plant any
vegetation upon any lot or lots, street, alley or walkway in the cemetery or to
grade the ground or land thereof. The cemetery sexton shall, whenever required,
furnish the true lines of any lots according to official survey, shall prevent
and prohibit any markings of the same except by official landmarks and shall
prevent and prohibit any grading thereof that might destroy or interfere with
the general slope of the land. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
   C.   Placement Of Markers:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or dealer to erect, place or
cause to be placed any marker or monument on any lot in the cemetery without
authorization from the cemetery clerk.
      2.   The presence of the cemetery superintendent or the cemetery sexton
is required at the time of placement.
      3.   Memorials will be placed in an orderly manner in predesignated rows.
      4.   Only one marker is permitted per grave. A second marker on the same
grave is permitted if installed flush with the surface of the lawn. (Ord. 11-
05, 12-5-2011)
      5.   To allow for mowing on the southwest hill of the cemetery grounds,
all headstones or markers placed south of the south paved cemetery road west of
the amphitheater are required to be flush with the surface of the lawn. This
includes all existing plotted graves and any additional graves which hereafter
shall be created within the same designated area.
      6.   A monument must be placed within the boundary of the grave or graves
of the owner in conformity with established rows.
      7.   Headstones raised and flat must have a concrete border six inches
(6") wide installed flush with the surface of the lawn.
      8.   Headstones are personal property. All monuments within the cemetery
are the property of lot owners, their heirs, or the responsible party that
ordered and placed them. All care and upkeep of the monuments are the
responsibility of the owner.
      9.   Placing markers in the cemetery is a privilege and must follow the
guidelines and restrictions required herein. (Ord. 16-01, 7-7-2015)
7-5-16: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter, unless otherwise stated, shall be punished
as allowed for in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-04, 7-12-2007)
7-5-17: USE OF AMPHITHEATER:
In order to protect the sacredness of Clarkston' s cemetery and ensure any and
all activities comply with the values of our community the following
regulations will be used to govern the use of this venue:
   A.   Rallies, movies, concerts, theatrical productions, and political events
will not be allowed.
   B.   Maximum capacity shall not exceed 300; including spectators and
participants. Events where anticipated assembly of persons, including
spectators and participants is greater than 100, additional restroom facilities
will be required and provided by requestor.
   C.   Application for a permit to hold an event shall provide a detailed
description of event, content, purpose of gathering, and duration. This
information must be submitted for approval by Clarkston's Town Council at least
thirty (30) calendar days in advance of such assembly. Clarkston Town reserves
the right to repudiate any request that does not meet the Town's objective to
maintain the sanctity of the cemetery and is not approved by majority vote of
the Town Council.
   D.   All usage of this site will require:
      1.   A permit authorizing use of amphitheater; and
      2.   A hold harmless agreement between the Town of Clarkston and those
requesting use before any event is allowed.
   E.   Since this area is not regularly maintained fees will be imposed for
clean-up prior to and after scheduled events. Fees for larger gatherings will
be proportionate to size of gathering. (Ord. 21-01, 1-19-2021; amd. Ord. 21-09,
10-5-2021)
7-5-18: CREMAINS:
The south west hill of the cemetery will be designated solely for cremains
burials only. (Ord. 17-09, 9-5-2017)
CHAPTER 6
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Telecommunications Act Adopted By Reference
7-6-1: TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah telecommunications act (Utah Code Annotated title 54,
chapter 8B), as amended, are hereby adopted by the town. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if
proceeded hereunder. (Res. 98-02, 2-6-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Application For Connection And Service
8-1-2: Fees, Rates And Charges
8-1-3: Use Without Payment Prohibited
8-1-4: Injuring Or Impairing Water System Prohibited
8-1-5: Billing And Delinquency
8-1-6: Separate Connections Required For Each User
8-1-7: Unauthorized Users
8-1-8: Use By Visitors In Recreational Vehicles
8-1-9: Maintenance And Protection Of Apparatus
8-1-10: Water Pipes; Specifications, Installation
8-1-11: Water Use Prohibitions
8-1-12: Vehicles For Sprinkling Regulation
8-1-13: Inspection; Access Authority
8-1-14: Liability For Damages; Disclaimer
8-1-15: Use Of Water For Driving Machinery
8-1-16: Multiple Outlets And Sprinklers
8-1-17: Scarcity Of Water; Authority To Limit Use
8-1-18: Wasting Water
8-1-19: Water Meters
8-1-20: Water Lines
8-1-21: Compliance With Building And Plumbing Codes
8-1-22: Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-23: Fire Hydrants
8-1-24: Extension Of Water Mains
8-1-25: Connections Outside Town Limits
8-1-26: Penalty
8-1-27: Winter Water Running
8-1-1: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION AND SERVICE:
   A.   Application For Connection By Individuals: Any person, other than a
subdivider or developer seeking multiple connections, who desires or is
required to secure a new connection to the municipal water system, shall file
with the water department for each such connection a written and signed
connection application in substantially the form set out in exhibit 1-010,
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the town
office. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Application For Connection By Developers: Whenever a subdivider or
developer desires or is required to install water connections and extensions
for a subdivision or development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into
a written extension agreement with the town after review from the planning
commission, and recommendations are received from the commission, which
agreement shall constitute an application for permission to make the extensions
and connections and an agreement specifying the terms and conditions under
which the water extensions and connections shall be made, and the payments that
shall be required. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
   C.   Application For Service By Owners: Any person who desires or is
required to secure water service when such service is available from the
municipal water system, shall file with the water department a written
application and agreement for the service which shall be in substantially the
forms set out in exhibits 1-030a and 1-030b, which are attached to the
ordinance codified herein and on file in the town office. A new service
application fee in such amount as established by resolution of the town council
must be paid at the time of application. The fee for new service application
may be changed or fixed from time to time by resolution enacted by the
governing body.
   D.   Application For Service By Tenants: Applications for water service made
by the tenant of an owner must, in addition to the requirements set out in
subsection C of this section, be guaranteed by an agreement signed by the owner
of the premises or his duly authorized agent in substantially the form set out
in exhibit 1-040, which is attached to the ordinance codified herein and on
file in the town office. A new service application fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the town council must be paid at the time of
application. The fee for new service application may be changed or fixed from
time to time by resolution enacted by the governing body. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-
2002; amd. 2003 Code)
8-1-2: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Method Of Fixing; Uniformity Required: The rates, penalty fee for
delinquency in payment, collection fee, reservoir fee, inspection fee,
application fee and other charges incidental to connection and services from
the municipal water system shall be fixed from time to time by resolution
enacted by the governing body. The governing body may from time to time
promulgate rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting charges for
water services and all other rules necessary for the management and control of
the water system. Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with respect to
each class or classes of service established or that may hereafter be
established.
   B.   Special Rates And Conditions; Filing; Purpose: The governing body may
from time to time fix by agreement or resolution special rates and conditions
for users using exceptionally large amounts of water service or making use of
the water system under exceptional circumstances, upon such terms and
conditions, as they may deem proper.
   C.   Assessments; Complaints: The governing body constitutes a board of
equalization of water rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any
assessments deemed to be illegal, unequal or unjust. They may, if they see fit,
rebate all or any part of the water bill of any indigent person. (Ord. 02-01,
10-10-2002)
8-1-3: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants or agents to utilize
the municipal water system without paying therefor, as herein provided or,
without authority, to open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve or other fixtures
attached to the system of water supply unless it is done pursuant to proper
application, agreement or resolution. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-4: INJURING OR IMPAIRING WATER SYSTEM PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to injure, deface or impair any part or appurtenance of the
water system, or to cast anything into any reservoir or tank belonging to the
water system. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-5: BILLING AND DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Frequency: The town shall furnish to each user, or mail to or leave at
the place of residence or usual place of business, a written or printed
statement stating thereon the amount of water service charges assessed against
the customer (hereinafter "customer") once each month or at such other regular
intervals as the town council shall direct.
   B.   Contents; Delinquent Payment; Notice Of Intent To Disconnect Service:
The monthly statement shall specify the amount of the bill for the water
service, the billing date, the place of payment and the date due. The payment
due date is the tenth day of the following month of the billing cycle as
indicated on the statement and if not paid by the due date the account is
delinquent. If any statement is not paid by the due date, the town may give the
customer notice in writing of intent to discontinue water service to the
premises of the customer unless the amount due is paid in full within fifteen
(15) days from the date of the notice.
   C.   Delinquent Notice Fee: A delinquent notice fee shall be charged to any
customer receiving a notice in writing of intent to discontinue water service.
The delinquent notice fee may be set from time to time by resolution of the
town council.
   D.   Termination Of Service Fee: If water service is discontinued for
failure to make payment of the service charges due, a termination of service
fee will be charged to the customer who has had service discontinued. The
termination of service fee may be set from time to time by resolution of the
town council.
   E.   Requirements For Reconnection: If water service is discontinued for
failure to make payment of the service charges due, then before water service
to the premises shall again be provided, all delinquent water service charges,
delinquent notice fees, termination of service fees and restoration fees, must
have been paid to the town. Furthermore, in addition to such payments and
penalties, the delinquent customer shall be required to make and file a new
application. The town is authorized and empowered to enforce the payment of all
delinquent water charges by legal action (including recovery of the town's
attorney fees) and may require payment in cash or cashier's check.
   F.   Interest: Any delinquent customer account shall be charged interest of
one and one-half percent (11/2%) per month (18 percent annual percentage rate)
on the delinquent balance for water service, from the due date until paid.
   G.   Service Restoration Fee: Any water service discontinued as a result of
nonpayment shall be subject to a service restoration fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the town council.
   H.   Unauthorized Use After Disconnection: It is unlawful for any person,
after the water has been discontinued (turned off) from the premises for
nonpayment of water charges or other violation of the ordinances, rules,
regulations or resolutions pertaining to the water supply, to turn on or allow
the water to be turned on or used. (Ord. 16-09, 9-4-2016)
8-1-6: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED FOR EACH USER:
It is unlawful for two (2) or more families or service users to be supplied
from the same service pipe, connection or water meter. In all such cases, a
failure on the part of any one of the users to comply with this section shall
warrant a withholding of a supply of water through the service connections
until compliance or payment has been made, and in any event, the property owner
shall be primarily liable to the municipality for all water services utilized
on all such premises. Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude the power of
the municipality to require separate pipes, connections or meters at a
subsequent time. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-7: UNAUTHORIZED USERS:
It is unlawful for any water service user to permit any person from other
premises or any unauthorized person to use or obtain water services regularly
from his premises or water facilities, either outside or inside his premises.
(Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-8: USE BY VISITORS IN RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Individuals visiting the premises of an authorized user in a recreational
vehicle, not including a mobile home, and continuing to live therein during the
period of visitation may receive water service from the service pipes or
facilities of the host during the visitation period which shall not exceed one
month. Continued use thereafter shall be deemed unauthorized and in violation
of the provisions of this chapter relating to separate connections and
unauthorized use. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-9: MAINTENANCE AND PROTECTION OF APPARATUS:
All users of water services shall keep their service pipes and connections and
other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense.
No person, except under the direction of the water supervisor, shall be allowed
to dig into or under the street for the purpose of laying, removing or
repairing any service pipe. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-10: WATER PIPES; SPECIFICATIONS, INSTALLATION:
   A.   All service and other pipe used in conjunction with the water services
of the municipality shall be of such material, quality and specifications as
the governing body may from time to time by resolution provide, and shall be
installed at such distances below ground as may be specified by regulations
relating to the water department. All work, alterations or extensions affecting
water pipes shall be subject to the acceptance of the water supervisor, and no
connections with any water mains shall be made without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the town clerk.
   B.   No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots or
buildings to adjoining premises without permission from the water supervisor
and subject to such requirements relating to controls as may be imposed by him.
(Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-11: WATER USE PROHIBITIONS:
Except as provided in section
8-1-27 of this chapter, it is unlawful for any water user to:
   A.   Waste water;
   B.   Allow it to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes, or
to allow tanks or water troughs to leak or overflow;
   C.   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops, or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus; or
   D.   Use the water for purposes other than for which he has applied, or to
use water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the water
supply. (Ord. 17-04, 2-21-2017)
8-1-12: VEHICLES FOR SPRINKLING REGULATION:
Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the water
department through the supervisor of the water department. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-
2002)
8-1-13: INSPECTION; ACCESS AUTHORITY:
The water supervisor and his agents shall at all ordinary hours have free
access to any place supplied with water services from the municipal system for
the purpose of examining the apparatus and ascertaining the amount of water
service being used and the manner of its use. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-14: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; DISCLAIMER:
The municipality shall not be liable for any damage to a water service user by
reason of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by
fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which
occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other
unavoidable cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the liability
of the municipality beyond that provided in the governmental immunity act.
(Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-15: USE OF WATER FOR DRIVING MACHINERY:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the municipal water system for the
purpose of driving motor, siphon, turbine or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose
except by special permission of the governing body. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-16: MULTIPLE OUTLETS AND SPRINKLERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to use such number of outlets
simultaneously or to use such sprinklers or combinations of sprinklers or
outlets as will in the opinion of the governing body materially affect the
pressure or supply of water in the municipal water system or any part thereof,
and the governing body may from time to time, by resolution, specify
combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such effect.
   B.   The governing body shall, after determining that such improper use
exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the premises whereon
such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such use discontinued
and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-17: SCARCITY OF WATER; AUTHORITY TO LIMIT USE:
In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the
governing body be necessary, the governing body shall by proclamation limit the
use of water to such extent as may be necessary. It is unlawful for any person,
his family, servants or agents to violate any proclamation made by the
governing body in pursuance of this authority to limit use. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-
2002)
8-1-18: WASTING WATER:
   A.   Except as provided in section
8-1-27 of this chapter, users of water from the municipal water system shall
not permit water to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to
conserve water. If, in the judgment of the water supervisor or of any of the
officers of the municipality, a user of municipal water engages in practices
which result in the needless waste of water and continues so to do after
reasonable notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the supervisor or
any officer may refer the matter to the governing body. (Ord. 17-04, 2-21-2017)
   B.   The governing body may thereupon consider terminating the right of the
individual to use culinary water. If it elects to consider the matter of
termination, it shall give notice to the water user of the intention to
terminate his/her water connection at least five (5) days prior to the meeting
of the governing body at which termination of the water service is to be
considered. The notice shall inform him of the time and place of the meeting
and of the charges which led to the consideration of the termination.
   C.   A water user whose right to utilize municipal water is being reviewed
shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and present his
reasons why his water service should not be discontinued.
   D.   After due hearing, the governing body may arrive at a determination. If
the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's service
connection, it shall notify him/her of the decision and of the period during
which the service will remain discontinued. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-19: WATER METERS:
   A.   Number Required: Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this
chapter, all structures, dwelling units, establishments and persons using water
from the municipal water system must have such number of water meters connected
to their water system as are necessary in the judgment of the supervisor to
adequately measure use and determine water charges to the respective users.
   B.   Furnished By Municipality: Meters will be furnished by the municipality
upon application for a connection, and upon payment of such connection fees and
other costs as may be established by the governing body from time to time by
resolution.
   C.   Property Of Municipality; Disputes: Meters shall be deemed to be and
remain the property of the municipality. Whenever a dispute between supervisor
and the property owner arises as to the appropriate number of meters to be
installed on any premises, the matter shall be heard and determined by the
governing body after due notice in writing to the parties involved.
   D.   Readings: The supervisor shall cause meter readings to be taken
regularly and shall advise the town clerk thereof for the purpose of recording
the necessary billings for water service.
   E.   Inspections: Meters may be checked, inspected or adjusted at the
discretion of the municipality, and they shall not be adjusted or tampered with
by the customer. Meter boxes shall not be opened for the purpose of turning on
or off the water except by an authorized representative of the municipality,
unless special permission is given by the municipality through its
representatives to the customer to do so. Any person needing water shut off at
the meter in case of an emergency may do so. Any damage to the meter, lines or
connections will be the property owner's responsibility.
   F.   Testing: If a customer submits a written request to the supervisor to
test his/her water meter, the municipality may, if under the circumstances it
deems it advisable and in its discretion, order a test of the meter measuring
the water delivered to such customer. If such request is made within twelve
(12) months after the date of the last previous test, the customer may be
required to pay the cost of such test. If the meter is found in such test to
record from ninety seven percent to one hundred three percent (97% - 103%) of
accuracy under methods of testing satisfactory to the governing body, the meter
shall be deemed to accurately measure the use of water.
   G.   Failure To Register: If the municipality's meter fails to register at
any time, the water delivered during the period of failure shall be estimated
on the basis of previous consumption during a period which is not questioned.
In the event a meter is found to be recording less than ninety seven percent
(97%) or more than one hundred three percent (103%) of accuracy, the
municipality shall make such adjustments in the customer's previous bills as
are just and fair under the circumstances.
   H.   Damage Or Injury: All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other
materials of the municipality on or near the customer's premises caused by any
act or neglect of the customer shall in the discretion of the municipality be
repaired by and at the expense of the customer, and the customer shall pay all
costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, which may arise or
accrue to the municipality through its efforts to repair the damage to the
lines, meters or to other equipment of the department, or collect such costs
from the customer. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-20: WATER LINES:
   A.   Connection, Repair, Alteration And Installation:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to lay, repair, alter or connect any
water line to the municipal culinary water system without first having received
a construction permit from the office of the town clerk or from the water
supervisor. The water supervisor may inspect any work allowed by permit, as
herein provided. This is not intended to prohibit a property owner or water
user from maintaining or installing water lines that are not owned by the town.
Any such maintenance must be done in accordance with applicable regulations.
(Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002; amd. Ord. 14-01, 1-7-2014)
      2.   In order to provide minimum water pressure to Clarkston (as per
"Utah Administrative Rules For Public Drinking Water Systems Rule: R309-105-9,
Minimum Water Pressure", and "Clarkston Utah Culinary Water Impact Fee Analysis
section 7.1 paragraph 2") any buildings with plumbing fixtures above five
thousand feet (5,000') mean sea level shall not be allowed to connect to the
Clarkston Town culinary water system. Developments with plumbing fixtures above
five thousand feet (5,000') mean sea level will be required to provide public
water infrastructure as required and directed by the town. The infrastructure
will become property of Clarkston Town. The infrastructure may include, but not
be limited to, tanks, transmission lines, pump stations, and distribution water
lines. (Ord. 14-01, 1-7-2014)
   B.   Moving Or Replacement: In the event that the municipality in its sole
discretion determines that any water line of the municipality must be moved or
replaced, the municipality shall bear that portion of the cost of such move or
replacement which applies to the main lines up to the property line of the
customer. The cost of reconnecting such new line or lines from the house of the
customer to his property line shall be borne by the customer. (Ord. 02-01, 10-
10-2002)
8-1-21: COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODES:
Permission to connect with the municipal water system shall not be given unless
the plumbing in the house or building to be connected meets the provisions of
the building and plumbing codes of the municipality. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-22: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Any customer desiring to discontinue service shall notify the municipality in
writing of such fact at least ten (10) days before the date when such service
shall be discontinued. On giving such written notice, the customer shall not be
responsible for water bills incurred after the date specified in the notice.
Any credit balance in favor of the customer as a result of an advance payment
of bills will be refunded upon discontinuance of service. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-
2002)
8-1-23: FIRE HYDRANTS:
Water for fire hydrants will be furnished free of charge by the municipality.
Installation and repairs on such hydrants shall be at the expense of the
municipality and shall be made under the direction of the municipality. All
customers shall grant the municipality, upon demand, a right of way or easement
to install and maintain such hydrants on their premises if the municipality
concludes that the hydrants shall be so installed for the protection of the
residents of the municipality. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-24: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS:
   A.   Within Town Limits:
      1.   Any person (excluding any subdivider or person who, at the time of
extension, has subdivided, or will subdivide the property serviced by the
requested extension, into a platted subdivision) who desires to have the
culinary water mains extended within town limits, shall submit an application
in writing to the town containing:
         a.   A description of the proposed extension;
         b.   A map showing the location thereof.
      2.   The town shall consider all such applications for extensions of
water mains in the order of receipt but may exercise sole discretion as to
priority and order of installation regardless of application order.
      3.   Should the town approve an application for a water main extension,
the applicant shall deposit with the town an amount equal to the estimated cost
of design and bidding of the extension (if bidding is required under town
purchasing policies). Once the bid cost is known, the applicant shall deposit
with the town an amount equal to the bid (or estimate if the project does not
require bidding), plus ten percent (10%) contingency (any unused portion of
which will be refunded to the applicant upon completion of the project), plus
the estimated cost of inspection and project management (any unused portion of
which will also be refunded to the applicant upon completion of the project)
before the town shall proceed to install the extension, either of its own
accord or under contract let to a qualified contractor. All persons connecting
to said water main extension, including the petitioner, shall be required to
remit all applicable connection and impact fees in effect at the time of
connection. The town reserves the right to delay connections to the water main
extension until after completion of such capital facilities plans and impact
fee studies as may be required by law in order to determine and adopt
appropriate connection and impact fees and determine adequate line sizes to
serve potential growth. The town reserves the right to determine line size and
to require any or all extensions to be sized for future growth. Under these
circumstances, the town may elect to pay all or a portion of the added cost to
install the larger line.
      4.   The town engineer shall be responsible for design of the water main
extension and preparation of the plans and specifications for the project. The
applicant shall be responsible for securing and recording any required rights
of way or easements for said extension.
      5.   The town reserves the exclusive right to approve or disapprove any
and all requests or petitions for line extensions based upon all criteria
determined applicable by the town, including, but not limited to, available
water supply, and available capacity on existing distribution lines from which
the extension will be served or until completion of any engineering studies to
determine line size and connection fees and impact fee studies to establish
impact fees.
      6.   Any person desiring extension of the water mains whose petition
meets the requirements of subsection A1 of this section, shall submit payment
in full of the estimated costs, fees and charges for such extension as
determined by the town engineer, which shall include, but not be limited to,
engineering costs, legal fees, materials, labor, construction contracts, plus
administrative and supervisory expenditures of the municipal water department.
The petitioner, upon completion of the project, shall pay any expenses that
exceed the estimated total before water service will be provided. Such
extensions shall be the property of the town and will not be subject to cost
recovery measures for any portion thereof by the petitioner, and any
connections to the extension will be subject to the applicable connection and
impact fees.
   B.   Outside Town Limits:
      1.   The town reserves the right to further extend water mains located
outside the town limits to serve users within newly annexed territory or other
users located inside town limits.
      2.   The town reserves the right to extend water mains and provide
connections for government entities, including federal and state government, or
branches thereof, such as counties, school districts, municipalities, etc. Said
government agencies shall not be restricted as to use or application of such
connections.
   C.   Extension By Subdivider: Any subdivider or other person who owns
property that has been or will be divided, as a platted subdivision, must
pursue the extension under the regulations and conditions of the municipal
subdivision ordinance and this chapter.
   D.   Specifications For Extension: Unless otherwise specified by the town,
all extensions shall be of the size of line, type of material, etc., as
determined by the town engineer and/or specifications adopted by the town, and
shall be laid according to specifications, which include the number of valves,
meters, fire hydrants, etc., as determined by the town engineer. Nothing in
this subsection shall be interpreted to preclude the town's right to designate
smaller or larger diameter pipe, as circumstances warrant, or alternative
materials. The town also reserves the right to require any or all extensions to
be sized for future growth. Under these circumstances, the town may elect to
pay all or a portion of the added cost to install the larger line.
   E.   Maintenance: Unless otherwise provided in the petition for extension or
in the subsequent approval of the town engineer, the town will own, operate and
maintain all extensions made under this chapter. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-25: CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS:
No further connections to municipal water mains presently located outside town
limits, nor extension of water mains to serve property outside town limits,
will be approved, with the exceptions as described in subsection
 8-1-24B of this chapter. All persons and other potential users, excepting
those connected to the system as of the date of this enactment, who request
service from existing municipal water mains located inside and outside town
limits must annex prior to receiving service from the municipal culinary water
system. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002)
8-1-26: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter, unless otherwise stated, shall be guilty of
a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 02-01, 10-10-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
8-1-27: WINTER WATER RUNNING:
   A.   As used in this section, the term "winter water months" means the three
(3) month period between December 1 through February 28 of each year.
   B.   Notwithstanding sections
8-1-11 and
 8-1-18 of this chapter, during the winter water months users of water from the
municipal water system may continuously run water, without overage charges
being applied, only so far as needed to prevent or reduce the likelihood of the
freezing of pipes, connections, or other apparatus of the municipal water
system, provided that such continuous running of water does not: threaten the
health and safety of any person or animal, damage or create the potential for
damage to any real or personal property, create a nuisance under
title 4, chapter 2 of this code, or violate any other state or federal law,
rule or regulation.
   C.   The governing body may fix, suspend, or alter the rates for water use
during the winter water months in accordance with the provisions of section
8-1-2 of this chapter.
   D.   The governing body may fix, suspend, or alter from time to time by
resolution any limits on the number of gallons of water that may be used for
continuous running of water under this section. (Ord. 17-04, 2-21-2017)
CHAPTER 2
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PLAN
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose Of Chapter
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Responsibility
8-2-4: Plumbing Official
8-2-5: Certified Backflow Assembly Technician
8-2-6: Policy
8-2-7: Requirements
8-2-8: Public Notification
8-2-9: Records
8-2-10: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: PURPOSE OF CHAPTER:
   A.   To protect the public potable water supply of Clarkston Town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within the user's
internal distribution system(s) or private water system(s) such contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow into the public water systems;
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the user's in-plant potable water system(s), and
nonpotable water system(s), plumbing fixtures and industrial piping system(s);
and
   C.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems. (Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
herein ascribed to them:
   APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: A device currently listed as acceptable by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the municipality's public water supply will be considered as an
auxiliary water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
municipality's public potable water supply or any natural source(s) such as a
well, spring, river, stream, harbor, etc., or "used waters" or "industrial
fluids". These waters may be contaminated or polluted or they may be
objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the
municipality does not have authority for sanitary control.
   BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the distribution of pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source(s) other than the intended source.
   BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source(s)
other than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
   BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained
within the Utah plumbing code, chapter 10 (appendix J), and the cross
connection control program for Utah. All backflow prevention assemblies must be
approved by the Utah department of health, bureau of general sanitation, prior
to installation. A listing of these approved backflow prevention assemblies may
be found in the cross connection control program for Utah.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
sewage, industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a
degree which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two (2) otherwise separate piping systems one of which
contains potable water and the other nonpotable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur
into the potable water system. This would include any temporary connections,
such as swing connections, removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools,
dummy sections of pipe, swivel or changeover devices or sliding multiport
tubes.
   CROSS CONNECTION CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved backflow
assembly at the water service connection to a customer's premises where it is
physically and economically infeasible to find and permanently eliminate or
control all actual or potential cross connections within the customer's water
system; or, it shall mean the installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer's
water system where there are actual or potential cross connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross connection
(isolation).
   CROSS CONNECTION CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly
installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   WATER SUPERVISOR: The person designated to be in charge of the water
department of Clarkston Town and who is invested with the authority and
responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross connection control
program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 04-01,
4-8-2004)
8-2-3: RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   The water supervisor shall be responsible for the protection of the
public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to
the backflow of contaminants or pollutants through the water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the water supervisor an approved backflow
prevention assembly is required (at the user's water service connection; or,
within the user's private water system) for the safety of the water system, the
water supervisor or his designated agent shall give notice in writing to said
user to install such an approved backflow prevention assembly(ies) at specific
location(s) on his premises. The user shall immediately install such approved
assembly(ies) at the user's own expense; and failure, refusal or inability on
the part of the consumer to install, have tested and maintain said assembly
(ies) shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises
until such requirements have been satisfactorily met.
   B.   In the absence of a designated water supervisor, the town engineer
shall assume the powers and responsibilities of the water supervisor as
designated in this chapter. (Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
8-2-4: PLUMBING OFFICIAL:
   A.   The building inspector for Clarkston Town has the responsibility not
only to review building plans and inspect plumbing as it is installed, but he/
she has the explicit responsibility of preventing cross connections from being
designed and built into the structures within his/her jurisdiction. Where the
review of building plans suggests or detects a potential for a cross connection
being made an integral part of the plumbing system, the building inspector has
the responsibility to require such cross connections be either eliminated, or
provided with an approved backflow prevention assembly in accordance with the
plumbing code. (Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
   B.   The building inspector's responsibility begins at the point of service
(the downstream side of the meter) and carries throughout the entire length of
the customer's water system. The building inspector should inquire about the
intended use of water at any point where it is suspected that a cross
connection might be made or where one is actually called for by the plans. When
such a cross connection is discovered, it will be mandatory that a suitable,
approved backflow prevention assembly be required by the plans and be properly
installed, in accordance with the international plumbing code as adopted by
Clarkston Town (section
9-3-1 of this code). (Res. 10-12, 8-10-2010)
8-2-5: CERTIFIED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY TECHNICIAN:
   A.   When employed by the user to test, repair, overhaul and/or maintain
backflow prevention assemblies, a backflow prevention assembly technician will
have the following responsibilities:
      1.   Be responsible for ensuring acceptable testing equipment and
procedures are used for testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention
assemblies;
      2.   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the user, water
supervisor and the bureau of public water supplies on forms approved for such
use by the bureau of public water supplies;
         a.   Such reports shall include the list of materials or replacement
parts used;
      3.   It is the technician's responsibility to ensure replacement parts
are equal in quality to parts originally supplied by the manufacturer of the
assembly required;
      4.   It will be the technician's responsibility not to change the design
material or operational characteristics of the assembly during repair or
maintenance;
      5.   A certified technician shall perform the work and be responsible for
the competence and accuracy of all tests and reports;
      6.   It will be the technician's responsibility to ensure his license is
current, the testing equipment being used is acceptable to the state and is in
proper operating condition;
      7.   Failure to report a failing assembly to the bureau of public water
supplies and the municipality in writing within five (5) working days may be
grounds for revocation of the technician's certification;
      8.   He shall be equipped with and be competent to use all necessary
tools, gauges and other equipment necessary to properly test, repair and
maintain backflow prevention assemblies;
      9.   The certified technician must tag each double check valve, pressure
vacuum breaker, reduced pressure backflow assembly and air gaps, showing the
serial number, date tested and by whom. The technician's license number must
also be on this tag. (Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
   B.   In the case of user requiring a commercially available technician, any
certified technician is authorized to make the test and report the results of
that test to the user, and the municipality. (Res. 10-12, 8-10-2010)
8-2-6: POLICY:
   A.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the municipality unless the water supply is protected as required
by state laws, regulations, codes and this chapter. Service of water to any
premises shall be discontinued by the municipality if a backflow prevention
assembly required by this chapter for control of backflow and cross connections
is not installed, tested and maintained, or if it is found that a backflow
prevention assembly has been removed, bypassed or if an unprotected cross
connection exists on the premises. Service will not be restored until such
conditions or defects are corrected.
   B.   The user's system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable times
to authorized representatives of the municipality to determine whether cross
connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violation of
this chapter, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the water
superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected
the condition(s) in conformance with the state and town statutes relating to
plumbing, water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   C.   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line to a customer's water system, at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line, whenever the water
superintendent deems the protection of the water supply to be in the best
interest of the water supply customer. (Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
   D.   The type of protective assembly required under subsection B of this
section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists at the point of
cross connection (whether direct or indirect), as stipulated in the
international plumbing code, chapter 6. (Res. 10-12, 8-10-2010)
   E.   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved assemblies for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under subsections A and B of this section, be excluded from the
requirements of these rules so long as the water supervisor is assured that
they will satisfactorily protect the public water system. Whenever the existing
assembly is moved from the present location or requires more than minimum
maintenance or when the water supervisor finds that the maintenance of this
assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by an
approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
8-2-7: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the user at any premises
where backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have certified inspection
and operational tests made at least once per year at the user's expense. In
those instances where the water superintendent deems the hazard to be great, he
may require certified inspections and tests at a more frequent interval. These
inspections and tests shall be performed by a certified backflow assembly
technician, licensed through the state department of health. It shall be the
duty of the water supervisor to see that these tests are made according to the
standards set forth by the state department of health.
   B.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed whenever the water
supervisor deems the protection of the water supply to be in the best interest
of the water supply customers. The supervisor shall also decide which backflow
prevention assemblies will be installed in water supply lines to provide at
least a degree of protection stipulated in the international plumbing code,
chapter 6. (Res. 10-12, 8-10-2010)
   C.   All backflow prevention assemblies installed in a potable water supply
for protection against backflow shall be maintained in good working condition
by the person or persons having control of such assemblies. The state
department of health, bureau of public water supplies and the municipality
having jurisdiction, may inspect such assemblies and, if found to be defective
or inoperative, shall require the replacement thereof. No assembly shall be
removed from use, relocated or another assembly substituted without the
approval of the municipality.
   D.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested within ten (10)
working days of installation.
   E.   No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed so as to create a
safety hazard (example: installed over an electrical panel, steam pipes,
boilers, pits or above ceiling level). (Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
8-2-8: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:
Although failure of a consumer to be aware of this chapter shall be no defense
to violation, the water department shall use reasonable means to notify its
customers of the hazards of cross connections and the need for annual
inspection of backflow assemblies. (Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
8-2-9: RECORDS:
The water department shall keep reasonable records of cross connection hazards
and the condition of backflow assemblies, including those records required by
state and federal agencies. (Ord. 04-01, 4-8-2004)
8-2-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and punished accordingly and subject to such fine and
imprisonment allowed for a class B misdemeanor under this code. (Ord. 04-01, 4-
8-2004)
CHAPTER 3
UTILITY CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Unlawful Connection
8-3-1: UNLAWFUL CONNECTION:
It shall be unlawful for any utility company to provide service to any
structure or building, or to service equipment or wiring for which a permit is
required, until approval is granted by the building official. The building
official may order utility services terminated at any location where the use is
not authorized or is in violation of the building, zoning or other ordinances
of the town. (Res. 10-12, 8-10-2010)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Building Inspector
9-1-3: Building Permit Required
9-1-4: Fee Schedule
9-1-5: Penalty; Exception
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The international building code, as adopted by the state, shall be the building
code for the town. (1976 Code § 9-531; amd. 2003 Code)
9-1-2: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of building official who
shall also be known as the building inspector. (1976 Code § 9-511)
   B.   Powers:
      1.   Stop Order: The building inspector shall have the power to order all
work stopped on construction, alteration or repairs of buildings in the town
when such work is being done in violation of any provisions of any ordinance
relating thereto, or in violation of the subdivision or zoning titles of the
town. Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such order, except on the
written permission of the inspector; provided, that if the stop order is an
oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such
written stop order may be served by any peace officer or other authorized
person. (1976 Code § 9-512)
      2.   Entry: The building inspector shall have the power to enter into any
building or the premises where the work of altering, repairing or constructing
any building or structure is going on, for the purpose of making inspections at
any reasonable hour, pursuant to any of the provisions of this title and title
4 of this code. (1976 Code § 9-513)
   C.   Duties: The building inspector shall, in addition to all other duties
imposed on him by the town: (1976 Code § 9-514)
      1.   Enforce the provisions of the building code. (1976 Code § 9-514;
amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Inspect all buildings, structures, ditches, signs, fences and
objects to determine their safety and effect on the persons who are within the
town.
      3.   Until such time as a plumbing inspector is appointed or designated,
the building inspector shall be responsible for enforcing chapter 3 of this
title.
      4.   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a location
that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial
improvement (including prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
         a.   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         b.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         c.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      5.   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to
assure that:
         a.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
         b.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage; and
         c.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      6.   Require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary
sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters,
and require on site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding. (1976 Code § 9-
514)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Application And Plans: A building permit shall be secured from the Town
Clerk on written application accompanied by plans and specifications, in
duplicate, which must state the specific nature of the construction or
alterations to be made. The plan must be verified by the person who will
perform or be in charge of the construction or alteration.
      1.   Uninhabited Properties: Professional surveys are required to be
conducted on all uninhabited properties prior to building permit approval.
   B.   Variations From Plan Prohibited: No material variation from the
approved plan shall be allowed unless such variations shall first have been
approved in writing by the building inspector.
   C.   Approval Of Plan: The application and plans shall be forwarded from the
Town Clerk to the building inspector, who shall review the plan to determine
whether the proposed construction or alteration conforms to the Building Codes
and ordinances of the Town. The building inspector shall return the plans to
the Town Clerk within ten (10) days with the statement "approved" if the plans
do conform or "disapproved" if the plans do not conform. If the plans are
disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be annexed to the plans. On receipt of
an approved plan, the Town Clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant,
together with one set of the approved plan. One set of the plans shall be
retained by the building inspector. The building inspector may revoke at any
time a permit which has been issued for any building constructed or being
constructed or which would be or result, if constructed, in violation of any
ordinance of the Town.
   D.   Agricultural Structures:
      1.   As used in this subsection, the term "agricultural building" means a
structure which is used solely for agriculture purposes, and not for human
occupancy, including structures such as, but is not limited to, pole barns,
stables, crop protection shelters, shade shelters, storage structures for
equipment and machinery used exclusively in agriculture.
      2.   Upon the written request of the applicant for a building permit for
an agricultural building, and upon the applicant's acknowledgment of the
applicant's responsibilities under subsection D3 of this section, the building
inspector may waive the requirement for construction documents from a design
professional in accordance with Utah State Code. In doing so, the building
inspector shall be relieved of any personal liability as provided in Utah State
Code.
      3.   Any applicant who requests a waiver under subsection D2 of this
section assumes all risks associated therewith and agrees to defend, indemnify,
and hold Clarkston Town and any of its officials, officers, agents, employees,
and contractors, including the building inspector, harmless from and against
any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and obligations of any kind
and description, including any reasonable attorney fees, which arise out of the
agricultural building that is the subject of the application or any matters
related thereto.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to use any agricultural building for human
occupancy. Any change of use of an agricultural building requires the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy for the new use in accordance with the provisions
of the State Construction Code and this Code. (Ord. 18-02, 5-15-2018)
9-1-4: FEE SCHEDULE:
Building permit fees shall be in such amounts as established by resolution of
the Town Council. (2003 Code)
9-1-5: PENALTY; EXCEPTION:
   A.   It shall be a Class C misdemeanor for any homeowner and a Class B
misdemeanor for any person who receives payment or anything of value to
construct or alter any building or structure, except a fence or temporary
movable building 1
, without first securing the permit required by this chapter. Violators shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this Code. (1976 Code § 9-521; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 16-11, 11-15-
2016)
   B.   This section shall not apply where the retail cost of the materials
used in the construction or alteration is less than one hundred dollars
($100.00), except that it shall apply in all cases where the construction or
alteration results in an enlarged structure or affects the walls of the
building or structure. (1976 Code § 9-521; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-2-9 of this Code.
ARTICLE A. IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Report Adopted
9-1A-2: Impact Fees Imposed
9-1A-3: Service Area
9-1A-4: Time Of Collection
9-1A-5: Adjustment Of Impact Fees
9-1A-6: Administrative Challenges And Appeals Procedure
9-1A-1: REPORT ADOPTED:
The reports from Sunrise Engineering, Inc., entitled "Clarkston Town Culinary
Water and Road Impact Fee Analysis," dated February 2019 (the "Study"), and the
analysis reflected therein for water and road impact fees are hereby adopted as
the town's impact fee facilities plan and impact fees analysis required by the
Utah Impact Fees Act. (Ord. 01-05, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-01, 3-19-2019)
9-1A-2: IMPACT FEES IMPOSED:
No building permit shall be issued for development activity within the service
area unless an impact fee is calculated and imposed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter. The following impact fees are hereby imposed as a condition to
the issuance of a building permit by the town for development activity:
 
IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE
Water $5,000.00 per ERC
Road  $2,500.00
 
B.   The Equivalent Residential Connection ("ERC") is defined as the average
water use by a residential unit or single-family dwelling as calculated and set
forth in the Study. The water impact fee imposed under this section shall be
calculated by multiplying the ERC factor for the project by schedule listed
above. The ERC factor shall be calculated based on the estimated water use of
the project evaluated for the winter season and summer season separately and in
consideration of the size and number of water connections. (Ord. 01-05, 1-7-
2002; amd. 2003 Code; amd. Ord. 19-01, 3-19-2019)
9-1A-3: SERVICE AREA:
The service area for the impact fees imposed by this chapter includes the
entire political boundaries of the town. (Ord. 01-05, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-
01, 3-19-2019)
9-1A-4: TIME OF COLLECTION:
Unless otherwise provided by the town council, impact fees shall be paid to the
town prior to the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 01-05, 1-7-2002; amd.
Ord. 19-01, 3-19-2019)
9-1A-5: ADJUSTMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The town may adjust the impact fees imposed pursuant to this article as
necessary in order to:
      1.   Respond to:
         a.    Unusual circumstances in specific cases; or
         b.     A request for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for
the development activity of the state, a school district, or a charter school
and an offset or credit for a public facility for which an impact fee has been
or will be collected; and
      2. Ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly.
   B.   The town may also adjust the impact fees for a particular development
based upon studies and data submitted by the developer of the particular
development.
   C.   The town may adopt other policies consistent with this chapter to
assist in the implementation, administration and interpretation of this
chapter.
   D.   A developer may receive a credit against or proportionate reimbursement
of an impact fee if the developer:
      1.     Dedicates land for a system improvement;
      2.    Builds and dedicates some or all of a system improvement; or
      3.     Dedicates a public facility that the town and the developer agree
will reduce the need for a system improvement.
   E.   A developer shall receive a credit against impact fees for any
dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements provided by the developer if the facilities:
      1.    Are system improvements; or
      2.     Are dedicated to the public and offset the need for an identified
system improvement. (Ord. 01-05, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-01, 3-19-2019)
9-1A-6: ADMINISTRATIVE CHALLENGES AND APPEALS PROCEDURE:
A.   Authority: Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee imposed by
the town who believes the fee does not meet the requirements of law may file a
written request for information with the town as provided by law.
B.   Written Analysis: Within two (2) weeks of the receipt of the request for
information, the town shall provide the person or entity with the information
required by law.
C.   Within thirty (30) days after paying an impact fee, any person or entity
who has paid the fee and wishes to challenge the fee shall file a written
appeal with the town clerk setting forth in detail all factual and legal
grounds in support of the appeal and challenge to the impact fee, and which is
relied upon by the appealing party with respect to the fees challenged.
D.   Upon receipt of the written appeal, the town clerk shall forward the
appeal, together with a recommendation, to the town council and shall schedule
a public hearing before the town council on the appeal for the purpose of
receiving input from all interested persons. The town council shall thereafter
render its decision on the appeal no later than thirty (30) days after the date
the appeal was filed with the town clerk. (Ord. 01-05, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-
01, 3-19-2019)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Electrical Code Adopted
9-2-2: Enforcement Official
9-2-3: Permit Required
9-2-4: Permit Fees
9-2-5: Electrical Installations
9-2-6: Inspection
9-2-7: Electrical Disturbances
9-2-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The National Electrical Code, as adopted by the State, shall be the Electrical
Code for the Town. (1976 Code § 9-540; amd. 2003 Code)
9-2-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The building inspector shall perform all functions of electrical inspection and
shall, among other things, inspect and supervise the construction, installation
and repairs of all electric light and power wiring, fixtures, appliances or
apparatus installed within the limits of the Town and shall require compliance
with the provisions of the Electrical Code. Wiring, fixtures and apparatus
heretofore installed need not necessarily be made to conform strictly to all
the provisions of the Electrical Code. The building inspector shall require the
correction of such defects as he deems actually dangerous to life or property.
Those same enforcement standards established in the Building Code shall be
followed by the building inspector for all electrical work. (1976 Code § 9-541;
amd. 2003 Code)
9-2-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No alterations or additions shall be made in existing wiring, nor shall any
wiring or any apparatus which generates, transmits, transforms or utilizes any
electricity be installed without first obtaining a permit therefor, except
minor repair work such as repairing flush and snap switches, replacing fuses,
changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints and repairing drop
cords. Applications for such permit describing such work shall be made in
writing and shall conform as far as practicable to the requirements set forth
in subsection
 9-1-3A of this title. This section shall not apply to installations in
powerhouses and substations belonging to electric light companies. No permit
shall be issued to any applicant for a permit during the time that he shall
fail to correct any defective electrical installations after he has been duly
notified to correct such defective work by the building inspector. (Ord. 18-02,
5-15-2018)
9-2-4: PERMIT FEES:
Electrical permit fees shall be in such amounts as established by resolution of
the Town Council. (2003 Code)
9-2-5: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS:
   A.   Business License Required: No person shall engage in the installation,
alteration, repair or construction of any electrical work, wiring, fixtures,
appliances or equipment inside or outside of any building, except work done for
or on the property of the Town, without first securing a business license and
paying such fee therefor as provided in section
9-2-4 of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-551)
   B.   Notification To Building Inspector: It shall be unlawful for any person
to do or cause to be done any electrical wiring or other electrical
installation in a building or structure within the Town without first notifying
the building inspector of the kind and nature of such electric wiring or other
electrical installation and the location of the building or structure in which
the same is to be installed. (1976 Code § 9-552)
   C.   Subject To Supervision And Inspection: All electric wiring or other
electrical installations shall be subject to supervision and inspection by the
building inspector. It shall be unlawful for any person to do or cause to be
done any electrical wiring or electrical installations without first obtaining
the permit required by section of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-553)
   D.   Unlawful Installation:
      1.   Disconnection; Seal: If the building inspector shall find any part
of any electric light or power wiring, appliances, apparatus or fixtures in or
upon any building in the Town to have been installed without permit, or
installed not in accordance with the provisions of the electrical code, or to
be dangerous to life or property, the inspector shall have the right and power
to disconnect such defective work, fixtures, appliances or apparatus and place
a seal upon the same, and shall at the same time give written notice of such
disconnection to the owner or occupant of the building.
      2.   Removal Of Seal: After such disconnected wiring, fixtures,
appliances or apparatus have been put in the condition required by this
chapter, the seal so placed shall be removed by order of the inspector. (1976
Code § 9-554)
9-2-6: INSPECTION:
   A.   Notification; Issuance Of Certificate: Upon completion of the
installation of any electrical wiring, fixtures, appliances or apparatus in or
on any building, it shall be the duty of the person doing the work to notify
the building inspector, who shall cause the same to be inspected and, if
approved, to issue a certificate of inspection which shall contain the date of
such inspection and a statement that the installation is approved.
   B.   Unlawful To Connect Current Without Certificate: It shall be unlawful
for any person to turn on or connect the current with such installation until
such certificate shall be issued, and it shall also be unlawful to make any
change, alteration or extension in or to the installation of any electrical
wiring, fixtures, appliances or apparatus in or on any building after
inspection without notifying the municipal wiring inspector and securing a
permit to do so.
   C.   Exception: The requirement of permits, inspection and supervision shall
not apply to minor repair work such as repairing flush and snap switches,
replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints and
repairing drop cords, and wiring for appliances and devices operating at less
than twenty five (25) volts. (1976 Code § 9-555)
9-2-7: ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCES:
   A.   Declared Nuisance: Electrical installations for signs, equipment or
other facilities which create electrical disturbances that cause interference
with normal radio or television reception beyond the immediate vicinity of such
electrical installations are hereby declared to be a nuisance. The owners or
operators thereof shall so install and maintain such installations as to avoid
or eliminate such interference, using all known means and devices for such
purpose, such as proper grounding, connections, condensers, resistors and live
chokes.
   B.   Abatement: The building inspector shall withhold or withdraw approval
of any electrical installation causing the above disturbance, and is hereby
authorized to take all steps necessary for the abatement of such conditions.
(1976 Code § 9-544)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-3-2: Applicability
9-3-3: Plumbing Inspector
9-3-4: Permits
9-3-5: Allowance For Exception
9-3-6: Right Of Entry
9-3-7: Interest In Sale Of Equipment Prohibited
9-3-8: Power To Condemn
9-3-9: Failure To Comply
9-3-10: Penalty
9-3-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
The International Plumbing Code, as adopted by the State, shall be the Plumbing
Code for the Town. (1976 Code § 9-561; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to, but not be limited to, all new
construction, relocated buildings and to any installation, alteration, repair
or reconstruction of a plumbing system within the Town, except as otherwise
provided for in this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-562)
9-3-3: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of plumbing inspector.
   B.   Duties: The plumbing inspector shall issue permits to properly
licensed, bonded and registered persons. Licensing should be for work to be
done within the scope of this chapter. The plumbing inspector:
      1.   Shall order changes in workmanship and/or materials essential to
enforce compliance with all provisions of the Plumbing Code.
      2.   Shall investigate any construction or work regulated by this chapter
and issue such notices and orders as are necessary to prevent or correct
dangerous or unsanitary conditions.
      3.   May recommend the revocation of any license to the State Department
of Business Regulation for cause and report to the Department of Business
Regulation all violations of this chapter by journeymen, apprentices or
contractors. (1976 Code § 9-563)
9-3-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Required; Application: No plumbing shall be installed, nor additions or
alterations made in existing plumbing, except as provided in subsection C of
this section, without first obtaining a permit. Application for such permits
shall be in writing to the Town Clerk and shall describe the nature of the work
to be done and affirm that the plumbing will conform to the Plumbing Code. No
permit shall be issued to any applicant during the time that he shall fail to
correct any defective plumbing installed by him after he has been notified in
writing by the plumbing inspector of the defective work. (1976 Code § 9-568)
   B.   Homeowners Permit: Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to
any person to do any plumbing or drainage work regulated by this chapter in a
single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes, including the
usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such buildings, in
the event that any such person is the bona fide owner of any such dwelling and
accessory buildings and quarters, and that the same are occupied by or designed
to be occupied by the owner; and further provided, that the owner shall furnish
the plumbing inspector with a complete layout drawing of the proposed work,
satisfies the plumbing inspector that he has a working knowledge of the
requirements contained in this chapter, pays the necessary fees and calls for
all inspections required by this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-573)
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Repairs which involve only the working parts of a faucet or valve,
the clearance of stoppages, the repairing of leaks or the replacement of
defective faucets or valves may be made without a permit; provided, that the
permits shall be procured to replace fixtures, traps, soil, waste and vent
pipes, unless waived by the plumbing inspector.
      2.   Any person regularly employed by an owner or lessee of property, or
his agents, for the sole purpose of operating and maintaining such property and
to make minor repairs thereto, and any owner or lessee of property, shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter when doing work for which permits
are not required. (Ord. 18-02, 5-15-2018)
   D.   Denial: The plumbing inspector may refuse to issue permits for any
plumbing work to any person who has had a permit revoked in accordance with
this chapter during such time as such person fails to perform plumbing work in
conformance with this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-571)
   E.   Expiration: Every permit issued by the plumbing inspector shall expire
and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced
within sixty (60) days from the date such permit is issued, or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days or more. (1976 Code
§ 9-570)
   F.   Revocation: The plumbing inspector may revoke any permit when the
person to whom the permit is issued fails, neglects or refuses to do the work
thereunder in conformance with this chapter, or when the permit is issued in
error. (1976 Code § 9-569)
9-3-5: ALLOWANCE FOR EXCEPTION:
Where structural conditions impose extreme difficulty in fully complying with
the plumbing regulations of this chapter, any aggrieved party may apply in
writing to the plumbing inspector for special permission to deviate from the
regulations. If, in the judgment of the plumbing inspector, such deviation is
reasonable and does not create an unsanitary or unsafe condition, he shall
recommend to the Town Council that the request for deviation be approved or
disapproved, or that approval is subject to such conditions as the Town Council
may require. The Town Council, on review, may approve or disapprove the
application or vary the conditions on which approval is granted. (1976 Code §
9-564)
9-3-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The plumbing inspector shall have the right of entry within reasonable hours to
any building or premises for the purpose of inspection or to investigate any
work or conditions governed by this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-565)
9-3-7: INTEREST IN SALE OF EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED:
The plumbing inspector and his assistants shall not in any way engage in the
sale or installation of plumbing equipment upon which they are required to make
inspection hereunder. (1976 Code § 9-567)
9-3-8: POWER TO CONDEMN:
The plumbing inspector is hereby empowered to condemn and order repaired,
removed, replaced or changed any plumbing found in any unsanitary condition or
not in accordance with this chapter. Failure to comply with the order within a
reasonable time is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1976 Code § 9-566; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-9: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or occupant of any building or
premises to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, remove, replace or change,
within ten (10) days after written notice to do so from the plumbing inspector,
any plumbing condemned by such inspector; provided, that this section shall not
apply to any occupant not responsible for the installation or repair of the
condemned plumbing. (1976 Code § 9-576)
9-3-10: PENALTY:
   A.   Homeowner: The violation of any provision of this chapter by any
homeowner, building owner or manager of any building, apartment, hotel, motel
or other structure shall be an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Person Receiving Payment: The violation of any provision of this
chapter by any person who receives payment or anything of value for performing
such work shall be a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1976 Code § 9-577; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Residential Code Adopted
9-4-2: Scope
9-4-3: Permit Required
9-4-4: Establishment Of Housing Advisory And Appeals Board
9-4-5: Violations
9-4-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
The international residential code, as adopted by the state, shall be the
residential code for the town. (2003 Code)
9-4-2: SCOPE:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of the residential code shall apply to
all buildings or portions thereof used, designed for or intended to be used for
human habitation. Occupancies in existing buildings may be continued as
provided in the building code, except for such structures as are found to be
"substandard", as defined in the residential code. (1976 Code § 9-652; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   Alterations To Existing Buildings: Existing buildings which are altered
or enlarged shall be made to conform to the residential code, insofar as the
new work is concerned. (1976 Code § 9-653; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Relocation Of Existing Buildings: Existing buildings which are moved or
relocated shall be considered as new buildings and shall comply with all
requirements of the residential code. (1976 Code § 9-654; amd. 2003 Code)
9-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure,
cause or allow the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate building
permit for each such building or structure from the building official in the
manner and according to the applicable conditions prescribed in the residential
code. (1976 Code § 9-657; amd. 2003 Code)
9-4-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF HOUSING ADVISORY AND APPEALS BOARD:
In order to interpret the provisions of the residential code and to hear
appeals provided for hereunder, there is hereby established the housing
advisory and appeals board, consisting of five (5) members, who shall not be
employees of the town. The building inspector shall be an ex officio member of
and shall act as secretary to the board. The housing advisory and appeals board
may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its business. Its
decisions and findings shall be in writing, copies of which shall go to the
appellant and to the building official. Appeals to the board shall be processed
in accordance with the provisions contained in residential code. Copies of all
rules or regulations adopted by the board shall be delivered to the building
official who shall make them available to the public without cost. (1976 Code §
9-655; amd. 2003 Code)
9-4-5: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of the residential code or any order issued by the building official
pursuant thereto. (1976 Code § 9-656; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings Code Adopted
9-5-2: Scope
9-5-3: Dangerous Buildings Declared Nuisance
9-5-4: Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings
9-5-5: Establishment Of Board Of Appeals
9-5-1: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE ADOPTED:
The uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, printed as a code in
book form by the International Conference of Building Officials (providing for
a just, equitable and practicable method whereby buildings or structures which
from any cause endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or
welfare of the general public or their occupants, may be required to be
repaired, vacated or demolished), one copy of which has been filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the town clerk, is hereby approved
and adopted as the abatement of dangerous buildings code of the town. (1976
Code § 10-341; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-2: SCOPE:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings shall apply to all dangerous buildings as therein defined,
which now exist or which may exist or hereafter be constructed in the town.
(1976 Code § 10-342)
   B.   Alterations, Additions And Repairs: All buildings or structures which
are required to be repaired under the provisions of the uniform code for the
abatement of dangerous buildings shall be subject to the provisions of the
building code. (1976 Code § 10-343; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-3: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DECLARED NUISANCE:
All dangerous buildings within the terms of this chapter are hereby declared to
be public nuisances and shall be vacated or demolished as hereinbefore and
hereinafter provided. (1976 Code § 10-346)
9-5-4: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
All buildings or portions thereof which are determined, after inspection by the
building official to be dangerous, as defined in the uniform code for the
abatement of dangerous buildings, are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in
accordance with procedures specified in the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings. (1976 Code § 10-344; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD OF APPEALS:
In order to interpret provisions of the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings and to hear appeals provided for thereunder, there is
hereby established an abatement of dangerous building board of appeals,
consisting of five (5) members, who shall not be employees of the town. The
building inspector shall be an ex officio member of and shall act as secretary
to the board. The board may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing
to the applicant with a copy to the building official. Appeals to the board
shall be processed in accordance with the provisions contained in the adopted
codes. Copies of all rules and regulations adopted by the board shall be
delivered to the building official who shall make them accessible to the public
without cost. (1976 Code § 10-345)
CHAPTER 6
WASTEWATER DISPOSAL CODES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Individual Wastewater Disposal Code Adopted
9-6-2: Small Underground Wastewater Disposal System Code Adopted
9-6-1: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL CODE ADOPTED:
Part IV, "individual wastewater disposal systems", of the code of waste
disposal regulations, adopted by Utah division of health and Utah state
committee on water pollution in May 1965, as revised by action of the board in
June 1967, and issued and published as a code in book form, one copy of which
has been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the town
clerk, and which established rules and regulations relating to the disposal of
domestic wastewater discharge from single homes, multiple-dwellings containing
not more than four (4) individual units, and commercial installations serving
not more than fifty (50) persons per day, is hereby adopted by the town as the
ordinance relating to individual wastewater disposal systems within the town
except as such code may be altered or modified by the provisions of this
section. (1976 Code § 9-610)
9-6-2: SMALL UNDERGROUND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM CODE ADOPTED:
Part V, "small underground wastewater disposal systems" of the code of waste
disposal regulations, adopted by the Utah division of health and Utah state
committee on water pollution in May 1965, as revised by action of the board
June 2, 1967, and June 21, 1967, and issued and published as a code in book
form, one copy of which has been filed for use and examination by the public in
the office of the town clerk, is hereby adopted by the town as the small
underground wastewater disposal systems code within the town, except as it may
be altered or modified by the provisions of this title. Occupancies in existing
building may be continued as provided in the building code, except as to those
structures which are found to be substandard as defined in the residential
code. (1976 Code § 9-620; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-7-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-7-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The International Mechanical Code adopted by the State of Utah shall be the
Mechanical Code for the Town. (Ord. 18-02, 5-15-2018)
CHAPTER 8
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
9-8-1: Energy Conservation Code Adopted
9-8-1: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED:
The international energy conservation code, as adopted by the state, shall be
the energy conservation code for the town. (Res. 10-12, 8-10-2010)
CHAPTER 9
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
9-9-1: Fuel Gas Code Adopted
9-9-1: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
The international fuel gas code, as adopted by the state, shall be the fuel gas
code for the town. (Res. 10-12, 8-10-2010)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Conflict
10-1-5: Effect Upon Previous Ordinance And Map
10-1-6: Definitions
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF CLARKSTON, UTAH, and may
be so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the town, including, amongst other things, the lessening
of congestion in the streets or roads, securing safety from fire and other
dangers, providing adequate light and air, classification of land uses and
distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the tax base,
securing economy in governmental expenditures, fostering the town's commercial
growth, and the protection of both residential and nonresidential development.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes
set forth. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-1-4: CONFLICT:
This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements, other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-1-5: EFFECT UPON PREVIOUS ORDINANCE AND MAP:
The existing zoning ordinance of the town, including the maps, is hereby
superseded and amended to read as set forth herein; provided, however, that
this title shall be deemed a continuation of the previous ordinance and not a
new enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of the previous ordinance
is included, whether in the same or in different language; and this title shall
be so interpreted upon all questions of construction, including, but not
limited to, questions of construction relating to tenure of officers and boards
established by previous ordinances and to questions of conforming or
nonconforming uses, buildings or structures, and to questions as to dates upon
which such uses, buildings or structures became conforming or nonconforming.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular
number include the plural and the plural the singular; words not included
herein but defined in the building code shall be construed as though defined
herein.
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as follows:
   AGRICULTURE: The science, art or occupation concerned with cultivating land,
raising crops, and feeding, breeding and raising domestic livestock and fowl;
also farming and the production of crops, livestock or poultry, but excluding
concentrated animal operations.
   ALLEY: A public thoroughfare twenty six feet (26') or less in width.
   APARTMENT COURT: Any building or group of buildings, which contain dwelling
units. See definition of Dwelling, Group.
   APARTMENT HOTEL: Any buildings, which contain dwelling units, and also
satisfies the definition of a "hotel", as defined in this section.
   APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
   APARTMENT MOTEL: Any building or group of buildings, which contain dwelling
units, and also satisfies the definition of a "motel", as defined in this
section.
   BASEMENT: A story partly underground. A basement shall be counted as a story
for purposes of height measurement if its height is one-half (1/2) or more
above grade.
   BOARDING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms where, for
compensation, meals are provided for at least five (5) but not more than
fifteen (15) persons.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A detached subordinate building clearly incidental to
and located upon the same lot occupied by the main building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the mean height level between the ridge and eaves of a gable, hip or gambrel
roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building or one of the principal buildings
upon a lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing the
principal use upon a lot.
   BUILDING, PUBLIC: A building owned and operated or owned and intended to be
operated by a public agency of the United States Of America, of the state of
Utah, or any of its subdivisions.
   CARPORT: A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this title, a carport shall be subject to all the regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
   CHILD NURSERY: An establishment for the care and/or instruction, whether or
not for compensation, of six (6) or more children other than members of the
family residing on the premises.
   CLUB, PRIVATE: An organization, group or association supported by the
members thereof, the sole purpose of which is to render a service customarily
rendered for members and their guests, but shall not include any service, the
chief activity of which is customarily carried on as a business, and does not
include labor union organizations or similar labor or business organizations.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL; PROHIBITED: A kennel established for the purpose of
boarding, breeding, and harboring of seven (7) or more animals for financial
gain.
   CONDITIONAL USE: The use of land for which a conditional use permit is
required pursuant to chapter 11 of this title.
   COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, or group of buildings, which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by
such building or buildings. The width of a court is its least horizontal
dimension, measured between opposite sides in the same general direction as the
yard or lot line on which the court opens. The length of a court is its least
horizontal dimension measured at right angles to its width.
   DAIRY: A commercial establishment for production, manufacture or processing
of dairy products.
   DISTRICT: A portion of the area of Clarkston, Utah, shown on a map attached
to the zoning ordinance codified herein and given a district name.
   DORMITORIES: Any building arranged or designed for two (2) or more dwelling
units and with three (3) or more sleeping rooms per unit.
   DWELLING: Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed for use for
residential purposes and shall not be less than twenty four feet (24') wide and
not less than thirty five feet (35') long, and shall not be less than one
thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet, excluding garage or carport.
All dwellings shall be required to have a permanent foundation that meets the
current building code. "Dwelling" shall not include hotels, apartment hotels,
boarding houses, lodging houses, motels, apartment motels, fraternities,
sororities, trailers, mobile homes or dormitories.
   DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
four (4) families, the structure having only four (4) dwelling units.
   DWELLING, GROUP: Two (2) or more dwelling structures occupying the same lot
and having yards and open spaces in common.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
more than four (4) families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
three (3) families, the structure having only three (3) dwelling units.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
(2) families, the structure having only two (2) dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment hotel or apartment
motel, designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping purposes
and having kitchen facilities for the use of not more than one family (other
than hot plates or other portable cooking units).
   FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption,
occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, as
distinguished from renters, roomers or as a group occupying a "boarding house",
or "hotel", as herein defined.
   FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION OR RECREATIONAL ANIMALS: The keeping of not more than
four (4) large animals (horses, cattle, llamas) and their offspring of less
than six (6) months, or not more than five (5) small animals (sheep, goats) and
their offspring of less than six (6) months, or not more than one hundred (100)
domestic fowl for each lot of one-half (1/2) acre or five-eighths (5/8) acre. A
proportionate increase is allowed based upon a ratio of that property to one
and one-fourth (11/4) acres. All animals are to be maintained in a husbandlike
manner.
   FRONTAGE: All property fronting on one side of the street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right of way,
waterway, end of dead end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured
along the street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary
of the frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
accessory; provided, that on a lot occupied by a multiple dwelling, the private
garage may be designed and used for the storage of two (2) times as many
automobiles as there are dwelling units in the multiple dwelling. A garage
shall be considered part of a dwelling if the garage and dwelling have a roof
or wall in common.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling or
storing motor driven vehicles.
   GRADE:
   A.   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the sidewalk
at the center of that wall adjoining the street.
   B.   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalks at the centers of all walls adjoining the streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the ground (finished surface) adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
All walls approximately parallel to and not more than five feet (5') from a
street line are to be considered as adjoining a street.
   HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation performed wholly within a residence, or the
yard and accessory buildings, being a part of such residence. Home occupations
shall not change the character of the residence or the residential
neighborhood. A business license is required for a home occupation. The license
shall be issued for a one year period and is renewable. The town council may
review a license in reaction to neighbors complaints and may revoke it if
evidence warrants this action. Home occupation standards are as follows:
   A.   The exterior of the home will not be modified in any way to accommodate
the home occupation (i.e., loading ramps, loading doors, etc.).
   B.   The occupation will be conducted entirely within the house, yard and
existing outbuildings.
   C.   The home occupation license covers only residents of the home.
   D.   No outside storage of goods or materials is permitted.
   E.   Pedestrian and vehicular traffic will not be in excess of that normally
associated with a residential neighborhood.
   F.   One sign will be permitted on the property. The sign must be approved
by the town council. The town council may review the sign in reaction to
neighbors complaints and require its removal or modification if evidence
warrants this action.
   G.   The home occupation must be operated in full conformity with fire,
health, building, electrical and plumbing codes, and all state and town laws
and ordinances.
   H.   No noise, odor, light, vibrations or dust, in excess of that normally
associated with a residential neighborhood, shall pass beyond the premises.
   I.   State licenses will be required for "professional childcare".
   J.   "Home occupation" shall include the care of not more than five (5)
children other than members of the family residing in the dwelling. A home
occupation in a multiple-dwelling unit (2 or more units) will be considered as
one of the units in determining the allowable number of units.
   HOTEL: A building designed or occupied as the more or less temporary abiding
place of fifteen (15) or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged,
with or without meals, and in which no provision is made for cooking in any
individual room or suite.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept
for company or pleasure, such as dogs and canaries, but not including a
sufficient number of dogs to constitute a "kennel", as defined in this section.
   JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, wood,
rubber, debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles or parts
thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
   JUNKYARD: Any place, establishment or business maintained, used or operated
for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the maintenance or
operation of an automobile graveyard, and the term includes garbage and
sanitary fills.
   LIVESTOCK FEED YARD: A commercial operation on a parcel of land where
livestock are kept in corrals or yards for extended periods of time at a
density which permits little movement, and where all feed is provided for the
purpose of fattening or maintaining the condition of livestock prior to their
shipment to a stockyard for sale, etc.
   LODGING HOUSE: A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
five (5) or more persons.
   LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building, or
group of buildings (main and accessory), together with such yards, open spaces,
lot width and lot area, as are required by this title, and having frontage upon
a street. Except for group dwellings, not more than one dwelling structure
shall occupy any one lot.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) intersections or intercepting streets
where the interior angle or intersection or interception does not exceed one
hundred thirty five degrees (135o).
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
   MOTEL: A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping rooms designed for or used temporarily by automobile tourists or
transients with garage attached or parking space conveniently located to each
unit.
   NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
springs, gullies or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by
the building inspector or state engineer's office, in which areas no buildings
shall be constructed.
   NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL; PERMITTED: Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or
maintaining four (4) or more dogs over the age of six (6) months old, shall be
considered to be operating a noncommercial dog kennel. The maximum number of
dogs allowed per household is six (6).
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure, or portion
thereof, lawfully existing at the time the ordinance codified herein, or
amendment to it, became effective, which does not conform to all the height,
area and yard regulations herein prescribed in the zone in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE: A use, which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
time the ordinance codified herein, or an amendment to it, became effective and
which does not conform to the use regulations of the zone in which it is
located.
   NURSING HOME: An institution providing residence and care for the aged.
   PARKING LOT: An open area, other than a street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether
free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE: Space within a building, lot or parking lot for the parking
or storage of one automobile.
   RESTRICTED LOT:
   A.   A parcel of land severed or placed in separate ownership after January
7, 2002, and which does not meet all the area, width, yard, frontage and other
requirements of this title for a lot; or
   B.   A parcel of land which does meet all the requirements of this title for
a lot but the creation of which has caused any adjacent or contiguous lot from
which it was severed to be insufficient in area, width, setback, yard, frontage
or other requirements of this title.
   ROOMER: One who occupies a hired room in another's house.
   SIGN: Any device used for visual communication to the general public and
displayed out of doors, including signs painted on exterior walls and interior
illuminated signs to be viewed from out of doors, but not including any flag,
badge or ensign of any governmental agency.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign, which directs attention to a use, product,
commodity or service not related to the premises.
   SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign, which directs attention to a use conducted, product
or commodity sold, or service performed upon the premises.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION: A sign displayed to indicate the name or nature of
buildings or uses other than commercial or industrial uses located upon the
premises.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and/or occupation of a person or
persons residing on the premises or legally occupying the premises, or
indicating a home occupation legally existing on the premises.
   SIGN, PROPERTY: A sign related to the property on which it is located and:
a) offering such property for sale or lease, or b) advertising contemplated
improvements, or c) announcing the name of the builder, owner, designer or
developer of the project, or d) warning against trespassing.
   SIGN, PUBLIC INFORMATION: A sign erected by a public or nonprofit agency,
service club, etc., giving information to direct the public to both public and
private facilities and major uses.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY: Temporary signs shall include any sign, banner, pennant or
advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard,
wallboard, or other light materials, with or without frames, intended to be
displayed for a short period of time only.
   STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses
owned by the occupants of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or
sale.
   STABLE, PUBLIC: A stable other than a private stable.
   STORY: The space within a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the ceiling next above.
   STORY, HALF: A story with at least two (2) of its opposite sides situated in
a sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the
floor immediately below it.
   STREET: A public thoroughfare, which affords the principal means of access
to abutting property and is more than twenty six feet (26') wide within a
minimum sixty foot (60') right of way.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground. Any "structure"
shall be considered part of a dwelling or building if the structure and
dwelling or building have a roof or wall in common.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE: A building without any foundation that is intended to
be on the parcel no longer than six (6) months and includes a soft-sided or
other structure designed to serve as a temporary garage, storage shelter, or
greenhouse, but does not include an accessory building or is not intended for
single family residential occupancy such as a mobile home or other similar
structure, and cannot be connected to permanent utilities. No temporary
structure shall be greater than two hundred (200) sq ft. It does require that a
zoning clearance permit be obtained from the planning commission before it is
constructed.
   TRAILER CAMP OR MOBILE HOME PARK: Any area or tract of land used or designed
to accommodate two (2) or more trailers or camping parties.
   TRAILER, MOBILE HOME OR CAMPER: A vehicle, with or without motive power or
wheels, designed to be used for human habitation.
   USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon
the same lot occupied by a main use.
   VETERINARY OR ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A building and runs where both large and
small animals are kept and/or treated by a licensed veterinarian.
   WIDTH OF LOT: The distance between the side lot lines at the distance back
from the front lot line required for the depth of the front yard.
   YARD: A space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from
the ground upward by buildings, except as otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT: A space on the same lot with a building between the front line
of the building (exclusive of steps) and the front lot line and extending
across the full width of the lot.
   YARD, REAR: A space on the same lot with a building between the rear line of
the building (exclusive of steps and chimneys) and the rear line of the lot and
extending the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE: A space on the same lot with a building between the side lines
of the building (exclusive of steps or open stairways) and the side lines of
the lot and extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
   ZONE: A portion of the area of Clarkston, Utah, shown on the zoning map
attached to the zoning ordinance codified herein, and given a zone name; and
may include one or more "districts", as defined and designated by this title.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code; per correspondence dated 1-18-2008; Ord.
13-02, 3-19-2013; Ord. 16-11, 11-15-2016; Ord. 17-01, 1-3-2017; Ord. 23-07, 8-
19-2023)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION; PERMITS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Building Inspector To Enforce
10-2-2: Permits To Comply
10-2-3: Powers And Duties Of Building Inspector
10-2-4: Changes And Amendments
10-2-5: Areas Annexed
10-2-6: Licensing
10-2-7: Building Permit Required
10-2-8: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
10-2-9: Zoning Permit Required
10-2-10: Validity
10-2-11: Penalty
10-2-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ENFORCE:
The certified building inspector, appointed under the provisions of the
building code of the state as adopted by the town council, is hereby designated
and authorized as the officer charged with the enforcement of this title;
however, the town council, by resolution or ordinance, may from time to time
entrust such administration, in whole or in part, to any other officer of the
town without amendment to this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-2-2: PERMITS TO COMPLY:
From the time of the effective date hereof, the building inspector shall not
grant a permit for the construction or alteration of any building or structure,
or the moving of a building or structure onto a lot, if such building or
structure would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor
shall any town officer grant any permit or license for the use of any building
or land if such use would be in violation of this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to inspect, or cause to be
inspected, all buildings in the course of construction or repair. He/she shall
enforce all the provisions of this title, entering actions in the court when
necessary, and his/her failure to do so shall not legalize any violation of
such provisions. The building inspector shall not issue any permit unless the
plans of and for the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use fully conform to all zoning regulations in effect. (Ord. 01-
04, 1-7-2002)
10-2-4: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
This title, including the maps, may be amended from time to time by the town
council after fourteen (14) days' notice and public hearing, but all proposed
amendments shall be first proposed by the planning commission or shall be
submitted to the planning commission for recommendation, which shall be
returned to the town council for its consideration within thirty (30) days.
Failure of the planning commission to submit its recommendation within the
prescribed time shall be deemed approval by such commission of the proposed
change or amendment. The town council may overrule the planning commission's
recommendations by a majority vote of its members. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-2-5: AREAS ANNEXED:
   A.   Policy: All annexations to the incorporated boundaries of Clarkston
Town shall be made in accordance with the latest requirements for annexations
as outlined in the Utah Code Annotated, 10-2-4, (1953 as amended) which are
incorporated in this chapter by reference.
   B.   Annexation Policy Plan: An annexation policy plan, developed in
accordance with the provisions of section 10-2-401.5 Utah Code Annotated (1953
as amended) has been adopted and shall be used as a guide in making decisions
relative to all annexation requests.
   C.   Application Fee: An application fee, as established in the most current
version of the adopted prevailing fee schedule, shall be paid at the time the
application for annexation is filed with the town clerk.
   D.   Areas Annexed: New areas annexed to the town shall automatically be
classified as being in the A-10 agricultural zone until such classification
shall have been changed by an amendment to this title, as provided by law.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 22-07, 10-4-2022)
10-2-6: LICENSING:
All departments, officials and public employees of the town, which are vested
with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses, shall conform to the
provisions of this title and shall issue no permit or license for uses,
buildings or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this title, and any such permit or license, if used in conflict with the
provisions of this title, shall be null and void. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-2-7: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
The construction, alteration, repair, removal or occupancy of any structure, or
any part thereof, as provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be
commenced or proceeded with except after the issuance of a written permit for
the same by the building inspector. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-2-8: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
No land shall be used or occupied, and no building hereafter structurally
altered or erected shall be used or changed in use, until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the building inspector stating that the
building, or the proposed use thereof, or the use of the land, complies with
the provisions of this title, or for the renewing, changing or extending of a
nonconforming use. A certificate of occupancy, either for the whole or a part
of a building or structure, shall be applied for coinciding with the
application for a building permit and shall be issued within ten (10) days
after the erection or structural alteration of such building or structure, or
part thereof, shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-2-9: ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A building permit is not required for buildings or structures two
hundred (200) square feet or less; and
   B.   Buildings or structures, measuring fifty (50) square feet to two
hundred (200) square feet, including metal storage or shipping containers of
any kind or size, must adhere to the zoning regulations; and
   C.   To ensure that zoning regulations are adhered to on the above mentioned
buildings or structures, the town of Clarkston has determined the need to
implement a zoning clearance permit; and
   D.   The zoning clearance permit application filing fee shall be in the
amount as established by the town council. (Ord. 16-06, 2-2-2016; amd. Ord. 21-
05, 5-18-2021)
10-2-10: VALIDITY:
Should any section, clause or provision of this title be declared by the courts
to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of the title as a whole,
or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid. (Ord. 01-
04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 16-06, 2-2-2016)
10-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, violating or causing or permitting the violation of the provisions
of this title, including the provisions of a validly issued conditional use
permit, shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed to be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during which any portion of
any violation of this title is committed, continued or permitted by such
person, firm or corporation. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 16-06,
2-2-2016)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Created; Compensation
10-3-2: Members; Terms; Removal; Vacancies
10-3-3: Qualifications Of Members
10-3-4: Officers
10-3-5: Meetings
10-3-6: Quorum
10-3-7: Powers And Duties
10-3-8: Voting
10-3-9: Reports And Records
10-3-1: CREATED; COMPENSATION:
There is created a planning commission to be composed of four (4) members.
Members of the planning commission shall serve without compensation, except for
reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties as members of the
commission. A member of the town council will be appointed as chairperson and
as an active member of the planning commission. Additional members may be
appointed to the planning commission on a temporary basis as determined by the
town council. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 21-03, 3-2-2021)
10-3-2: MEMBERS; TERMS; REMOVAL; VACANCIES:
The terms of the planning commission shall be staggered. Each member of the
planning commission shall serve for a term of four (4) years and until their
successor is appointed; provided, that the term of the first members shall be
such that the term(s) of one member(s) shall expire each year. Terms of members
of the planning commission shall begin on or before the first Monday in January
of each year. The town council may remove any member of the planning commission
for cause after review. Vacancies shall be promptly filled in the same manner
as the original appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term. (Ord. 01-
04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 21-03, 3-2-2021)
10-3-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS:
Members of the planning commission shall, at the time of appointment and
throughout their term of service, reside within the corporate limits of the
town. Members shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of
the town council and shall be selected without regard to political
consideration and solely upon their qualifications for the position. Members
may serve multiple terms. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 21-03, 3-2-2021)
10-3-4: OFFICERS:
The chairperson shall select a vice chair from members of the planning
commission. The members of the planning commission adopt rules and regulations
for their organization and for the transaction of business and the conduct of
their proceedings. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 21-03, 3-2-2021)
10-3-5: MEETINGS:
The members of the planning commission shall meet at least once each month at a
regular time as determined by the commission. The chairperson or a quorum of
the commission may call additional meetings as conditions require or as the
commission may determine.
   A.   In the intervening time between the meetings the chairperson will have
the responsibility of approving non-contested permit applications after review
with the vice chair and communicating decisions to other commission members.
   B.   In the event the chairperson or vice chair deems the permit requires
commission review or discussion, notification will be provided to the chair who
will schedule a commission meeting or add the permit review to the next
scheduled meeting if the scheduled meeting will take place within fourteen (14)
days. Any request for a subdivision will be brought before the planning
commission at the next regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd.
Ord. 21-03, 3-2-2021)
10-3-6: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the planning commission shall constitute a quorum. (Ord.
01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 21-03, 3-2-2021)
10-3-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning and zoning commission is an advisory commission to the town
council in all matters dealing with land use matters. The planning commission
shall keep with the laws of the state of Utah. At a minimum, the planning and
zoning commission shall:
   A.   Conduct regular, advertised meetings at least once each month and at
such other times as the planning and zoning commission may determine to be
necessary.
   B.   Prepare or review the general plan and recommend the general plan, and
amendments of the general plan to the town council.
   C.   Prepare or review and recommend land use, development and management
ordinances, zoning maps, and amendments thereto to the town council.
   D.   Review, gather data, and recommend approval or denial of subdivision
applications to the town council.
   E.   Review, gather data, and recommend changes to the annexation policy
plan.
   F.   Review, gather data, compare with the intentions of the general plan,
and recommend approval or denial of requests to rezone land within the boundary
of the town to the town council. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 21-03, 3-2-
2021)
10-3-8: VOTING:
A minimum of three (3) "yes" votes shall be required for the planning
commission to take any action. The chairperson will have no voting rights
except in the event of a tie; then the chairperson will place the tie breaking
vote. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 21-03, 3-2-2021)
10-3-9: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
Reports of official acts and recommendations of the planning commission shall
be public and shall be made in writing by the town’s deputy clerk, who shall be
an employee of the town. The report shall indicate the vote of the commission
on each item brought before the body. Any member of the commission may also
make a concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to the town council.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 21-03, 3-2-2021)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-4-1: Organization
10-4-2: Powers And Duties
10-4-3: Voting
10-4-4: Variance; Time Limit
10-4-5: Fee For Variance
10-4-1: ORGANIZATION:
A board of adjustment is hereby established and shall consist of five (5)
members appointed by the town council, for a term of five (5) years; provided,
that the terms of the members of the first board so appointed shall be such
that the term of one member shall expire each year. The town council shall
promptly fill any vacancy occurring on the board by reason of death,
resignation, removal or disqualification for the unexpired term of such member.
One member shall be a member of the planning commission. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-4-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Appeals: It shall be the duty of such board to hear all appeals taken
by any person aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the
town affected by any decision of the officer in charge of the administration of
this title. Said board shall adopt rules for the regulation of its proceedings
and conduct of its duties, and not inconsistent with the provisions of this
title or of state law.
   B.   Variances, Exceptions, Interpretation, Special Questions: In addition
to any other powers given by state law or town ordinance, the board, after
proper notice and public hearing, shall have the following powers:
      1.   Variances: When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or
shape of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the
ordinance codified herein, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions
or other extraordinary and exceptional situations or conditions of such piece
of property, the strict application of the provisions of this title would
result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and
undue hardship upon the owner of the property, the board may authorize, upon an
appeal relating to said property, a variance from such strict application so as
to relieve such difficulties or hardship, provided such relief may be granted
without substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially
impairing the intent and purpose of this title.
      2.   Special Exceptions: The board may permit a temporary building for
commerce or industry or residential use, which building is incidental to a
permitted use, such permit to be issued for a period of not more than one year.
      3.   Interpretation: The board may hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision or refusal made in the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-
2002)
      4.   Special Questions:
         a.   Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in single ownership at
the time of the passage of the ordinance codified herein, the board may permit
a use authorized on either portion of such lot to extend not more than five
feet (5') into the other portion of the lot. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003
Code)
         b.   The board may permit the enlargement of or addition to a
nonconforming building or structure, or a building or structure occupied by a
nonconforming use.
         c.   The board may permit the relocation on a lot of a nonconforming
building or structure, or a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming
use.
         d.   The board may reduce the amount of off street parking required,
where acquisition of land for such use would cause exceptional hardship. (Ord.
01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-4-3: VOTING:
The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be necessary to
reverse an order, requirement or determination of any administrative official,
or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter on which it is required to
pass or to effect any such variation in this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-4-4: VARIANCE; TIME LIMIT:
A variance shall be null and void twelve (12) months after the date of its
approval unless substantial work shall have been accomplished towards the
completion or other construction for which it was issued. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-
2002)
10-4-5: FEE FOR VARIANCE:
Each applicant filing a request for a variance shall pay a nonrefundable
filling fee to the town. This fee may be set and amended from time to time by
town council resolution. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
CHAPTER 5
ZONES ESTABLISHED
SECTION:
10-5-1: Establishment Of Zones
10-5-2: Boundaries Of Zones
10-5-3: Filing Of Ordinance And Map
10-5-4: Rules For Locating Boundaries
10-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
For the purpose of this title, the following four (4) zones are created to be
applied as necessary to regulate the development of the land in the town:
 
R-1-1/2 1/2 acre residential
R-2-5/8 5/8 acre residential
A-10    10 acre agriculture (low density residential)
C       commercial
 
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-5-2: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
The boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as described
herein or shown on the map entitled "Zoning Map of Clarkston, Utah," which map
is attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the town office,
and all boundaries, notations and other data shown thereon are made by this
reference as much a part of this title as if fully described and detailed
herein. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
10-5-3: FILING OF ORDINANCE AND MAP:
This title and map shall be filed in the custody of the town clerk and may be
examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established by the
town clerk. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-5-4: RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the
centerline of a street, alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless
otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the centerline of such street, alley
or block, or such property line, shall be construed to be the boundary of such
zone.
   B.   Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal or other waterway, or
public park or other public land, or any section line, then in such case the
center of such stream, canal or waterway, or the boundary lines of such public
land or such section line, shall be deemed to be the boundary of such zone.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
CHAPTER 6
AGRICULTURAL ZONE (A-10)
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Permitted Uses
10-6-3: Conditional Uses
10-6-4: Height Regulations
10-6-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
10-6-6: Modifying Regulations
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to preserve appropriate areas of the town for
permanent agricultural use. Uses normally and necessarily related to
agriculture are permitted, and uses inimical to the continuance of agricultural
activity are not allowed. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
10-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted in this zone are:
Accessory buildings and uses.
Agriculture.
Home occupation.
Household pets.
Livestock, poultry.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
10-6-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses in this zone requiring a conditional use permit are:
Airports.
Buildings covering more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot.
Cemeteries.
Church.
Concentrated animal operations.
Country clubs.
Fur farm, livestock feed yard, corral, silage pit, chicken coop.
Public riding stables.
Public school.
Public utilities.
Rear yard accessory buildings covering more than twenty five percent (25%) of
the rear yard.
Stands for sale of produce grown on the premises.
Single-family dwelling, subject to the following conditions in addition to any
others that may be imposed by the planning commission:
   A.   The allowed dwelling shall be maintained or constructed on a separately
described lot with a minimum area of one acre, which shall be part of a larger
parcel of real property of not less than ten (10) acres.
   B.   All other requirements of this title and this chapter shall be complied
with.
   C.   The separately described lot shall have frontage on an existing street
with access to an adequate water line, with the adequacy of any water line to
be determined by the planning commission with the approval of the town council,
and the decision of the town council shall be final.
   D.   The entire parcel of not less than ten (10) acres, which includes the
separately described parcel referred to above, shall be subject to an
agricultural land parcel declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions,
which shall be executed by the owner(s) of said parcel(s) and recorded,
together with a copy of the conditional use permit, with the County Recorder.
The forms for both documents shall be provided by the Town.
   E.   No more than one (1) single-family dwelling per ten (10) acres shall be
allowed.
Other uses similar to the above, judged by the Planning Commission to be in
harmony with the character and intent of this zone. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd.
2003 Code)
10-6-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The maximum height of each structure shall be established by the Planning
Commission, but in no case shall a structure be allowed to exceed thirty five
feet (35') in height. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-6-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
District Area     Lot Width In Front Yard      Side Yards In Rear Yard In Feet
                  Feet         Setback In Feet Feet
A-10     10 acres 300          30              12 and 12     30
 
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-6-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yards: Main buildings, other than dwellings, shall have a minimum
side yard of twenty feet (20'), and the total of the two (2) side yards shall
be forty feet (40'). Private garages and other accessory buildings located at
least ten feet (10') behind the main building may have a side yard of one foot
(1'), provided the slope of the roof is not toward the property line. If the
slope of the roof is toward the property line, the side yard has to be five
feet (5') from the roof overhang.
   B.   Setback To Adjacent Streets: All structures will have a setback of
thirty feet (30') on all adjacent streets.
   C.   Rear Yards: Private garages and accessory buildings located at least
ten feet (10') behind the main building may have a rear yard of five feet (5');
provided, that on corner lots rearing on the side yard of another lot, the
minimum rear yard for all buildings shall be ten feet (10'). (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-
2002)
   D.   Distance Between Buildings: No building, structure, or enclosure
housing animals or fowl shall be constructed closer to a dwelling on an
adjacent lot less than sixty feet (60'). (Ord. 17-08, 6-6-2017)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES (R-1-1/2, R-2-5/8)
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Conditional Uses
10-7A-4: Height Regulations
10-7A-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
10-7A-6: Modifying Regulations
10-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide appropriate locations where low density
residential neighborhoods may be established, maintained and protected. The
regulations also permit the establishment of, with proper controls, the public
and semipublic uses such as churches, schools, libraries, parks and
playgrounds, which serve the requirements of families. The regulations are
intended to prohibit those uses that would be harmful to a single-family
neighborhood. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted in this zone are:
Accessory uses and buildings.
Food production and recreational animals.
Home occupations.
Household pets.
Single-family dwellings.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 17-02, 1-3-2017)
10-7A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses in this zone requiring a conditional use permit are:
Art museum, public.
Buildings covering more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot.
Church.
Library, public.
Park or playground, public.
Parking lot for permitted use.
Public building.
Public school.
Public utility.
Rear yard accessory buildings covering more than twenty five percent (25%) of
the rear yard. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
10-7A-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No main building or structure shall be erected to a height greater than two and
one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-7A-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
District Area     Minimum Lot   Front Yard      Side Yards In Rear Yard In Feet
                  Width In Feet Setback In Feet Feet
R-1-1/2  1/2 acre 100           30              5 x 15        20
R-2-5/8  5/8 acre 100           30              5 x 15        20
 
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. per correspondence dated 1-18-2008)
10-7A-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yard: Main buildings, other than dwellings, shall have a side yard
of twenty feet (20') and a total of the two (2) side yards shall be forty feet
(40'). Private garages and other accessory buildings located at least ten feet
(10') behind the main building may have a side yard of one foot (1'), provided
the slope of the roof is not toward the property line. If the slope of the roof
is toward the property line, the side yard has to be five feet (5') from the
roof overhang.
   B.   Setback To Adjacent Streets: All structures will have a setback of
thirty feet (30') on all adjacent streets.
   C.   Rear Yard: Private garages and accessory buildings located at least ten
feet (10') behind the main building may have a rear yard of five feet (5');
provided, that on corner lots rearing on the side yard of another lot, the
minimum rear yard for all buildings shall be ten feet (10'). (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-
2002)
   D.   Distance Between Buildings: No building, structure, or enclosure
housing animals or fowl shall be constructed closer to a dwelling on an
adjacent lot less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 17-08, 6-6-2017)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL ZONE (C)
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Purpose
10-8A-2: Permitted Uses
10-8A-3: Conditional Uses
10-8A-4: Special Provisions
10-8A-5: Height Regulations
10-8A-6: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
10-8A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide areas for community retail and service
activities in locations to conveniently serve the residents. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-
2002; amd. 2003 Code)
10-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted in this zone are:
Altering and repair of wearing apparel.
Art needlework shop.
Art shop.
Artists' supplies.
Athletic goods store.
Babysitters' agency
Bakery in which manufacture is limited to goods retailed on the premises only.
Barber shop.
Beauty parlor.
Bicycle shop.
Book store.
Camera and photo supplies.
Candy store.
Catering establishment.
Confectionery, cafe or refreshment stand.
Dairy products store.
Dramatics school.
Frozen food lockers.
Fruit and vegetable stand.
Fruit juice store
Gift shop
Greenhouse.
Grocery.
Hardware store.
Hobby supply store.
Ice cream shop.
Ice store or vending station.
Locksmith, commercial.
Newsstand notions.
Office, business or professional.
Paint and wallpaper store.
Photo studio.
Photographer or sale of photographic supplies.
Plant materials.
Popcorn or nut shop.
Post office.
Private schools.
Radio and television sales and repair.
Shoe repair shop.
Sidewalk cafe.
Stationery and greeting card sales.
Studios for professional work or teaching any form of fine arts.
Toy store.
Variety store, limited to selling only items which may be sold by any other use
by right in this article.
Accessory uses and buildings, customarily incidental to and subordinate to the
above uses and devoted exclusively to the main permitted use of the premises.
Similar businesses to the above, judged by the planning commission to be in
harmony with the character and intent of this zone. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd.
2003 Code)
10-8A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses in this zone requiring a conditional use permit are:
Automobile service station, including the repairing, painting or upholstering
of motor vehicles.
Buildings covering more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot.
Coal and fuel sales office.
Garden supplies store.
Kindergarten or nursery school.
Manufacture of goods to be sold at retail on the premises, provided such
manufacture is conducted within a completely enclosed building and is clearly
incidental to the operation in connection with a use permitted in this article.
Parking lot; public building and services; public utility stations.
Public utilities.
Rear yard accessory buildings covering more than twenty five percent (25%) of
the rear yard.
Schools. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
10-8A-4: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
The above specified stores, shops or business shall be retail establishments
only and shall be permitted only under the following conditions:
   A.   Such business shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building
except for parking of automobiles and service to persons in automobiles.
   B.   All products, whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail on
the premises.
   C.   No entertainment, except music, shall be permitted on cafes,
confectioneries or refreshment stands.
   D.   All uses shall be free from objections because of odor, dust, smoke,
noise or vibration, or other causes. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-8A-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building or structure shall be erected to a height greater than two and one-
half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-8A-6: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
                Lot Width In Front Yard      Side Yards In
                Feet         Setback In Feet Feet          Rear Yard In Feet
District Area
C        1/2 acre 80           30              10 x 15       35
 
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
CHAPTER 9
OTHER BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATION
SECTION:
10-9-1: Effect Of Chapter
10-9-2: Lots In Separate Ownership
10-9-3: Yard Space For One Building Only
10-9-4: Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot
10-9-5: Separately Owned Lots; Reduced Yards
10-9-6: Private Garage With Side Yard; Reduced Yards
10-9-7: Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions
10-9-8: Area Of Accessory Buildings
10-9-9: Exceptions To Height Limitations
10-9-10: Minimum Height Of Main Building
10-9-11: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-9-12: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space; Restricted Lots
10-9-13: Coverage Regulations
10-9-14: Trash and Debris Control
10-9-15: Toilet Facilities For Workers
10-9-1: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter supplement the zoning
regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord.
19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-2: LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:
Any single lot or parcel or land which was under a separate ownership from
adjacent lots and of record on January 7, 2002, but does not meet the
requirements of the district in which it is located for minimum lot width and
area, may be utilized for a single-family dwelling, accessory buildings and
uses, a private garage, and agriculture related buildings if all other
requirements of this title are met. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-
7-2019)
10-9-3: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building, nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon
a building is to be erected or established. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord.
19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-4: EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT:
Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a "lot", as defined in
section
10-1-6 of this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-5: SEPARATELY OWNED LOTS; REDUCED YARDS:
In any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record on
January 7, 2002, and such lot having a smaller width than required for the zone
in which it is located, the width of each of the side yards for a dwelling may
be reduced to a width which is not less than the same percentage of the width
of the lot as the required side yard would be of the required lot width;
provided, that on interior lots, the smaller of the two (2) yards shall be in
no case less than five feet (5'), or the larger less than eight feet (8'), and
for corner lots the side yard on the side street shall in no case be less than
fifteen feet (15'), or the other side yard be less than five feet (5'). (Ord.
01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-6: PRIVATE GARAGE WITH SIDE YARD; REDUCED YARDS:
On any interior lot where a private garage, containing a sufficient number of
parking spaces to meet the requirements of this title, has a side yard equal to
the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same zone, the width of
the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal that of the
minimum required side yard, and on any lot where such garage has such side
yard, the rear yard of the dwelling may be reduced fifteen feet (15'), provided
the garage also has a rear yard of at least fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 01-04, 1-
7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-7: YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed except for
accessory buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projections of skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, roof overhangs, chimneys, flues, and other
ornamental features which project into a yard not more than four feet (4') and
open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than five feet (5').
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-8: AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings in any residential zone
shall cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard, except as
allowed by a conditional use permit. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-
7-2019)
10-9-9: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys,
smoke stacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, silos or similar
structures may be erected above the height limits herein prescribed, but no
space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing
additional floor space. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-10: MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDING:
No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade. (Ord.
01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-11: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of
two feet (2') in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular
area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them at points
of forty feet (40') from the intersection of the street lines, except a
reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to
automobile drivers. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-12: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE; RESTRICTED LOTS:
   A.   A restricted lot which meets all the requirements of this title for a
lot, but the creation of which has caused an adjacent lot from which it was
severed to be insufficient in area, width, yard, frontage or other
requirements, may be considered otherwise by adding or designating sufficient
acreage to the adjacent lot to meet all the requirements of this title for a
lot in the zone in which it is located. The added or designated land must then
be duly recorded in the office of the county recorder, before a building permit
may be issued.
   B.   Building permits will not be issued on restricted lots. (Ord. 01-04, 1-
7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-13: COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
In no zone shall a building or group of buildings with their accessory
buildings cover more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot, except as
allowed by a conditional use permit. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-02, 5-
7-2019)
10-9-14: TRASH AND DEBRIS CONTROL:
Every construction site shall have a means of containing construction debris
and waste (dumpster).
   A.    It shall be the responsibility of the general contractor or individual
obtaining the building permit to provide a dumpster on the construction site
for trash and debris control.
   B.    Where a contractor or individual obtaining a building permit has more
than one structure under construction on adjacent properties dumpsters for
trash and debris control may be so located as to service adjoining lots or
construction sites.
   C.    Dumpster facilities are prohibited from being located within the
public right-of-way.
   D.   Dumpsters shall not be located:
      1.    Within the sight triangle forty (40) feet of an intersection of two
(2) streets;
      2.     Within ten (10) feet of a fire hydrant or in such a manner as to
block view or access;
      3.    Within ten (10) feet of a public or private driveway or its
approach;
      4.     In such a way as to be an obstruction to a public works project;
      5.    On a sidewalk;
      6.    So as to block a U.S. postal box or any other type of mail box;
      7.     Within thirty (30) feet of the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign, yield sign, regulatory sign, or traffic control signal located at
the side of the roadway; or
      8.    In such a manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic or the public.
   E.   Any dumpster which is declared a nuisance, or does not comply with
section
10-9-14 -(4), may be cited in accordance with 1-4-1-D2. (Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
10-9-15: TOILET FACILITIES FOR WORKERS:
Toilet facilities shall be provided for construction workers and such
facilities shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
   A.    On every construction site that does not have functional, permanently
plumbed facilities available to the workers portable chemical toilet facility
(s) shall be provided.
   B.   The number of facilities to be provided for each sex shall be based
upon the number of employees of that sex for whom the facilities are furnished
and shall be in accordance with the following table. Where single-occupancy
toilet rooms have more than one toilet facility, only one such facility in each
toilet room shall be counted for the purpose of this table.
MINIMUM NUMBER OF TOILET FACILITIES
Number of Employees Minimum number of toilet facilities
MINIMUM NUMBER OF TOILET FACILITIES
Number of Employees Minimum number of toilet facilities
If serviced once per week*
1-10                1
11-20               2
21-30               3
Over 30             1 additional facility for each 10 additional employees
If serviced more than once per week*
1-15                1
16-35               2
36-55               3
Over 55             1 additional facility for each 20 additional employees
 
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the general contractor or individual
obtaining the building permit to provide toilet facilities sufficient for the
total number of workers on a construction site.
   D.   It shall be the responsibility of the employer to insure that all
toilet rooms and facilities are maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
If toilet facilities are of the type that require periodic servicing, it shall
be the responsibility of the contractor or individual obtaining the permit to
provide sufficient servicing of the facilities and shall also assure ready
access to the toilet facilities by the required servicing equipment.
   E.    Toilet facilities for construction sites shall not be located within
an existing or proposed public right-of-way.
   F.   Where a contractor or individual obtaining a building permit has more
than one structure under construction on adjacent properties toilet facilities
may be so located as to service multiple construction sites. The total number
of workers on all of the construction sites shall determine the number of
facilities.
   G.    The requirements of subsections 2. through 7. above do not apply to
mobile crews or to normally unattended work locations so long as employees
working at these locations have transportation immediately available to toilet
facilities that meet the other requirements of this section. The determination
of whether work crews are mobile is dependent upon factors such as worksite,
distance to toilet facility. (Ord. 19-02, 5-7-2019)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Maintenance Permitted
10-10-2: Repairs And Alterations
10-10-3: Additions, Enlargements And Moving
10-10-4: Alteration Where Parking Insufficient
10-10-5: Restoration Of Damaged Buildings
10-10-6: One Year Vacancy
10-10-7: Continuation Of Use
10-10-8: Occupation Within One Year
10-10-9: Change Of Use
10-10-10: Nonconforming Use Of Land
10-10-1: MAINTENANCE PERMITTED:
A nonconforming building or structure may be maintained. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-10-2: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or
to a building housing a nonconforming use. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-10-3: ADDITIONS, ENLARGEMENTS AND MOVING:
   A.   A building or structure nonconforming as to use regulations shall not
be added to or enlarged in any manner, unless such building or structure,
including such additions and enlargements, is made to conform to all the
regulations of the zone in which it is located, except as permitted by the
board of adjustment; provided, that the board of adjustment may allow the
addition to or enlargement of a single-family dwelling, but only if such
addition or enlargement can be accomplished without further or increased
nonconformance with applicable height, area or yard regulations. The permitted
addition or enlargement may be allowed to be nonconforming to the same extent
as the original single-family dwelling.
   B.   A building or structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard
regulations shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such
additions or enlargements conform to all the regulations of the zone in which
it is located, except as permitted by the board of adjustment; provided, that
the board of adjustment may allow the addition to or enlargement of a single-
family dwelling, but only if such addition or enlargement can be accomplished
without further or increased nonconformance with applicable height, area or
yard regulations. The permitted addition or enlargement may be allowed to be
nonconforming to the same extent as the original single-family dwelling. (Ord.
01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-10-4: ALTERATION WHERE PARKING INSUFFICIENT:
A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in
connection therewith, as required by this title, may be altered or enlarged,
provided additional automobile parking space is supplied to meet the
requirements of this title for such alteration or enlargement. (Ord. 01-04, 1-
7-2002)
10-10-5: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
A nonconforming building or structure or a building or structure occupied by a
nonconforming use which is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind,
earthquake or other calamity or act of God, or the public enemy, may be
restored, and the occupancy or use of such building, structure, or part
thereof, which existed at the time of such damage or destruction, may be
continued or resumed; provided, that such restoration is started within a
period of one year and diligently pursued to completion. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-10-6: ONE YEAR VACANCY:
A building or structure, or portion thereof, occupied by a nonconforming use,
which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied for a continuous
period of one year, except for dwellings, shall not thereafter be occupied
except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the zone in which it
is located. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-10-7: CONTINUATION OF USE:
The occupancy of a building or structure by a nonconforming use, existing at
the time the town's original zoning ordinance, or an amendment or revision
thereto, was first adopted, which made a use nonconforming, may be continued.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-10-8: OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR:
A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building
or structure was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one
year after the use became nonconforming. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-10-9: CHANGE OF USE:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure may not be changed except to a
conforming use, but where such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be
changed back to a nonconforming use. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-10-10: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time the ordinance codified
herein became effective, may be continued; provided, that no such nonconforming
use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or
adjoining property; and provided, that if such nonconforming use of land, or
any portion thereof, is abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more,
any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
CHAPTER 11
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Conditional Use Permit
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of uses to ensure
their compatible integration in the land use pattern of the town. (Ord. 01-04,
1-7-2002)
10-11-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Required: An approved conditional use permit shall be required for each
conditional use listed in this title. No officer nor employee of the town shall
issue a building permit or other permit or license for a conditional use unless
a conditional use permit shall have been approved.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a conditional use permit shall
be made at the office of the town clerk on forms provided for that purpose.
   C.   Development Plan: The applicant for a conditional use permit shall
prepare a site plan of the proposed conditional use, drawn to scale, and
showing all existing and proposed buildings, fences, landscaping, automobile
parking and loading areas, and any other information the planning commission
may deem necessary.
   D.   Fee For Permit And Costs: The initial and renewal conditional use
permit fee and other costs shall be as set by resolution by the town council.
   E.   Hearing: A hearing need not be held, however, a hearing may be held
when the planning commission shall deem a hearing to be necessary to serve the
public interest.
   F.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission may approve, modify
and approve, or deny the conditional use application. In approving any
conditional use, the planning commission shall impose regulations and
conditions as necessary to protect the public welfare within the bounds of this
title. In approving a conditional use, the planning commission shall find that:
      1.   The proposed use is necessary or desirable and will contribute to
the general well-being of the community.
      2.   The use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to
property or improvements in the vicinity.
      3.   The proposed use will comply with the regulations of this title.
      4.   The proposed use is in harmony with the intent of the master plan.
   G.   Appeals: Appeals of any decision of the planning commission shall be to
the town council 1
. Appeals shall be in writing and shall be filed at the office of the town
clerk not more than ten (10) working days after the decision by the planning
commission. The town council may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the
planning commission; however, the town council shall present, in writing, the
reasons for its action.
   H.   Inspection: The building inspector shall inspect the conditional use
during the course of construction to ensure that it complies with the
conditions of the use permit.
   I.   Time Limit: A conditional use permit shall be null and void one year
after approval unless substantial work shall have been accomplished toward its
completion.
   J.   Revocation: A conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to
comply with the conditions imposed with the original approval of the permit.
   K.   Permit Review: Conditional use permits may be reviewed annually or at
other intervals as stipulated by the planning commission. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-
2002)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-9-407 for provisions authorizing the town council to hear and
  decide appeals for conditional use permits.
CHAPTER 12
PARKING AND LOADING SPACE
SECTION:
10-12-1: Off Street Parking Required
10-12-2: Parking Space For Dwellings
10-12-3: Parking Space For Buildings Or Uses Other Than Dwellings
10-12-4: Location Of Parking Space
10-12-5: Parking Lot Regulations
10-12-6: Off Street Truck Loading Space
10-12-7: Parking Prohibited
10-12-1: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED:
There shall be provided at the time of erection of any building, or at the time
any main building is enlarged or increased in capacity, minimum off street
parking space with adequate provisions of ingress and egress by standard sized
automobiles, as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-12-2: PARKING SPACE FOR DWELLINGS:
In all zones, there shall be provided in a private garage, or in an area
properly located for a future garage, a hard surfaced space for the parking of
one automobile for the first six hundred (600) square feet, or fraction
thereof, of gross floor area in a new dwelling, plus one extra parking space
for each additional eight hundred (800) square feet, or fraction thereof, plus
one additional parking space for each six hundred (600) square feet of such
space added in the case of the enlargement of an existing building. In no case
shall there be less than one such parking space nor more than three (3) such
parking spaces required for each dwelling unit. There shall be no change of use
without the attendant space to accommodate the increased off street parking
needs. A minimum parking space shall be at least nine feet by twenty feet (9' x
20'). (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-12-3: PARKING SPACE FOR BUILDINGS OR USES OTHER THAN DWELLINGS:
For a new building, or for any enlargement or increase in seating capacity,
floor area, or guest rooms of any existing main building, there shall be at
least one permanently maintained parking space of not less than one hundred
eighty (180) square feet net area (9 feet by 20 feet) as follows:
Churches, schools and theaters,         At least 1 parking space for every 5
general auditoriums, and other similar  fixed seats provided in said buildings
places of assembly                      or structures.
                                        At least 1 parking space for each 2
Hospitals                               beds, including infants cribs and
                                        children's beds.
                                        At least 15 parking spaces; provided,
                                        that 3 additional parking spaces shall
Medical and dental clinics              be provided for each doctor or dentist
                                        having offices in such clinic in excess
                                        of 3 doctors or dentists.
Tourists courts and apartment motels    At least 1 parking space for each
                                        individual sleeping or living unit.
                                        At least 1 parking space for each 2
                                        sleeping rooms up to and including the
Hotels and apartment hotels             first 20 sleeping rooms, and 1 parking
                                        space for each 3 sleeping rooms over 20
                                        sleeping rooms.
                                        At least 1 parking space for every 11/
Boarding houses or lodging houses       2 persons for whose accommodation the
                                        building is designed or used.
Restaurants or establishments that      At least 1 space for each 100 square
serve meals, lunches or drinks to       feet of floor space in the building,
patrons, either in their cars or in     and 1 space for each 2 employees
the building, for retail stores         working on the highest employment
selling directly to the public, and     shift, or 5 parking spaces, whichever
recreational places of assembly         requirement is the greater.
All business or industrial uses not     1 parking space for each 2 employees
listed above, not providing customer    working on the highest employment
services on the premises                shift.
 
In no case shall a building be constructed, altered or increased where the
foregoing parking provisions are inadequate to provide sufficient spaces for
all employees and customers combined. The provision of adequate parking spaces
shall supersede any and all foregoing formulas. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-12-4: LOCATION OF PARKING SPACE:
Parking space, as required above, shall be on the same lot with the main
building or, in the case of buildings other than dwellings, may be located not
farther than five hundred feet (500') therefrom. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-12-5: PARKING LOT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Surfacing Material: Every parcel of land hereafter used as a parking
lot shall be paved with a surfacing material of oil, asphalt or concrete
composition, and shall have appropriate bumper guards where needed, as
determined by the building inspector.
   B.   Illumination: Any lights used to illuminate the lot shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any
residential zone. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-12-6: OFF STREET TRUCK LOADING SPACE:
On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof, erected
and occupied or increased in capacity after the effective date hereof, for
manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, department store, grocery,
hotel, hospital, laundry, or other use similarly involving the receipt or
distribution by vehicle of materials or merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained on the lot adequate space for standing, loading and unloading
services in order to avoid undue interference with public use of streets or
alleys. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-12-7: PARKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, trailer or equipment to be parked or left
standing on any street or town property for seventy two (72) consecutive hours,
and any vehicle, trailer or equipment so parked or left standing may be
impounded and removed by the county sheriff's office. For the purpose of
impoundment and removal, the county sheriff's office may impound and remove any
vehicle, trailer or equipment which reasonably appears to have remained unmoved
for seventy two (72) consecutive hours. This offense shall result in a parking
citation and the cost of impoundment and removal shall be charged to the owner
or any person who claims the impounded vehicle. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
CHAPTER 13
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Business Requiring Access
10-13-2: Roadways And Curbs
10-13-3: Location Of Gasoline Pumps
10-13-1: BUSINESS REQUIRING ACCESS:
Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots, and all other
businesses requiring motor vehicle access, shall meet the requirements as
hereinafter provided or as prescribed in the Utah department of transportation
manual entitled "Manual For Accommodation Of Utilities And The Control And
Protection Of State Highway Rights Of Way" (whichever requirements are
greater). Access to state highways is controlled and regulated by the Utah
department of transportation regulations. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-13-2: ROADWAYS AND CURBS:
Access to the station or other structure or parking lot shall be controlled as
follows:
   A.   Access shall be not more than three (3) roadways for each one hundred
feet (100'), or fraction thereof, of frontage on any street, and in no event
shall such roadways exceed in width seventy percent (70%) of the entire street
frontage.
   B.   No two (2) of said roadways shall be closer to each other than twelve
feet (12'), and no roadways shall be closer to a side property line than one
and one-half feet (11/2').
   C.   Each roadway shall not be more than thirty six feet (36') in width,
measured at right angles to the centerline of the driveway, except as increased
by permissible curb return radii. The entire flare of any return radius shall
fall within the right of way.
   D.   No roadway shall be closer than ten feet (10') to the point of
intersection of two (2) property lines at any corner as measured along the
property line, and no roadway shall extend across such extended property line.
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
   E.   In all cases where there is an existing curb and gutter or sidewalk on
the street, the applicant for a permit shall provide a safety island along the
entire frontage of the property, except for the permitted roadways. On the two
(2) ends and street side of such island shall be constructed a concrete curb,
the height, location and structural specifications of which shall be approved
by the town engineer. Maximum and minimum curb return radii are permitted, and
minimum roadway approach angles to the centerline of the street are required as
part of this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Where there is no existing curb and gutter or sidewalk, the applicant
may at his/her option install such safety island and curb or, in place thereof,
shall construct along the entire length of the property line, except in front
of the permitted roadways, a curb, fence or pipe rail not exceeding two feet
(2') or less than eight inches (8") in height. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-13-3: LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS:
Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than twenty four feet (24') from any
street line to which the pump island is vertical, and eighteen feet (18') from
any street line to which the pump island is parallel, and not less than sixteen
feet (16') from any residential zone boundary line. If the pump island is set
at an angle on the property, it shall be so located that automobiles stopped
for service will not extend over the property line. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
CHAPTER 14
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Signs Allowed
10-14-2: Animated, Flashing Or Intermittent Signs
10-14-3: Construction
10-14-4: Illumination
10-14-5: Location Of Signs
10-14-6: Roof And Ground Signs
10-14-1: SIGNS ALLOWED:
The following described signs shall be allowed as indicated in the accompanying
table. All signs on state highways must conform to Utah department
transportation regulations.
 
Type Of Sign (See Maximum Size In Maximum Height In Permitted Use Type Of
Definitions)      Feet            Feet*             Zone          Illumination
Business          8 x 20          35                C             Indirect neon
Nameplate         1 x 2           8                 All zones     Indirect
Property          2 x 3           8                 All zones     None
Temporary         8 x 12          16                All zones     None
*The distance from the top of the sign to the ground supporting it.
 
(Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-14-2: ANIMATED, FLASHING OR INTERMITTENT SIGNS:
Animated, flashing or intermittent signs are not allowed in any of the zones in
this title. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-14-3: CONSTRUCTION:
All signs in commercial zones shall have a surface of noncombustible material;
provided, however, that combustible structural trim may be used thereon. (Ord.
01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-14-4: ILLUMINATION:
All signs, except business signs, shall be illuminated by indirect lighting,
the source of which shall not be visible from the street. In no case shall
direct rays of light be permitted to penetrate a property in a residential zone
or used for residential purposes. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-14-5: LOCATION OF SIGNS:
All signs shall maintain a clear view of intersecting streets as provided in
section
10-9-11 of this title. In any zone requiring a front yard, all ground signs in
that zone shall adhere to the front yard requirements. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
10-14-6: ROOF AND GROUND SIGNS:
Roof signs shall be permitted only in the C zone. Ground signs shall not
project above the roofline of the highest building located on the same
premises. (Ord. 01-04, 1-7-2002)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: General Purpose Of Title
11-1-3: Authority To Regulate
11-1-4: Severability
11-1-5: Enforcement
11-1-6: Violation
11-1-7: Penalty
11-1-8: Appeals
11-1-9: Notice Of Noncompliance
11-1-10:Definitions
11-1-11: General Considerations Fees
11-1-12: General Responsibilities
11-1-13: Compliance Required
11-1-14: Required Certificates, Permits And Reviews
11-1-15: Fees
11-1-16: Flow Chart Table
11-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the Subdivision Ordinance of the Town of
Clarkston, Utah. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-2: GENERAL PURPOSE OF TITLE:
The purpose and intent of this ordinance is:
   A.   To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of residents of the
Town of Clarkston, to provide for the orderly division of land and growth
within the incorporated area of Clarkston, Utah and maintain the type of
community envisioned in the General Plan.
   B.   To assure that a proper survey of the properties is made to avoid land
discrepancies.
   C.   To assure that each lot meets the zoning requirements.
   D.   To assure that each lot is adequately provided with proper street
frontage and access, utility easements, culinary water, sanitary sewer, fire
protection, drainage, etc., to the standards of The Town of Clarkston.
   E.   To ensure that the subdivider(s) bear all costs of improving and
providing land for streets and easements, and for extending culinary, sanitary
sewer, storm drains where applicable to the subdivision site.
   F.   To assure that the development, including on-site and off-site
improvements, does not impact any wetlands or encroach upon flood plains.
   G.   To restrict development on land which is unsuitable because of poor
drainage, or severe septic tank limitations. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord.
24- 02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-3: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE:
The Town Council of Clarkston Town adopted this Subdivision Ordinance pursuant
to the Municipal Land Use Development Management Act, Title 10, Chapter 9a, of
the Utah Code Annotated and such other authorities and provisions of Utah
statutory and common laws that are relevant and appropriate. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-
2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision, sentence, or clause of this title is declared
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such determination shall
not impair the validity of the remainder of this title which shall remain in
full force and effect. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The Planning Commission, the Town Engineer, the Town Council and such other
departments and agencies of Town government as are specified under the
provisions of this title are hereby designated and authorized as the agencies
charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this title and shall enter
such actions in court as are necessary. Failure of such departments to pursue
appropriate legal remedies, shall not legalize any violation of such
provisions. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-6: VIOLATION:
No person shall subdivide any tract or parcel of land located wholly or in part
in the Town, except in compliance with the provisions of this title. No person
shall purchase, sell or exchange any parcel of land which is any part of a
subdivision, or a proposed subdivision submitted to the Town, nor offer for
recording in the office of the County Recorder, any deed conveying such parcel
of land or any fee interest therein, unless such subdivision has been created
pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of this Title. (Ord. 22-06,
8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Violations of any of the provisions of this ordinance is an infraction.
Clarkston Town may bring an action against an owner to require the property to
conform to the provisions of this ordinance. An action may include an
injunction or any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or enjoin
the violation. Clarkston Town only needs to establish the violation to obtain
the injunction in accordance with State Code 10-9a-611.
   B.   Clarkston Town may, in its discretion, void transfers of land done
pursuant to an invalid subdivision.
   C.   The violator of any provision of this Title shall be liable to the Town
for all costs and attorney fees incurred by the Town in enforcing this Title
against the violator. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-8: APPEALS:
Any adversely affected person shall have the right to appeal approval of the
preliminary plat for or against a proposed subdivision by the Planning
Commission to the Appeals Authority within ten (10) days of the date of such
action. Any action taken and not appealed within said ten (10) days shall be
final. When a written appeal is received by the Appeal Authority within ten
(10) days of the time the action was taken, the Town will publish notice of the
appeal hearing fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled date by publishing
according to State Code. Action by the Appeal Authority will be final. (Ord.
22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-9: NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Upon inspection and discovery that any provision of the Town's
Subdivision Code has been or is being violated, the Town may provide written
Notice of Violation to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
violation and to any other party who may be responsible for the violation.
   B.   The written Notice of Violation shall:
      1.   Indicate the nature of the violation;
      2.   Identify the action necessary to correct the violation;
      3.   Give the property owner fourteen (14) days from the date of receipt
of the Notice to correct the violation;
      4.   State the action the Town intends to take if the violation is not
corrected within the fourteen (14) day period; and
      5.   State that the property owner may request a hearing with the
Planning Commission if the property owner disagrees with the determinations set
forth in the Notice of Violation.
   C.   The Notice of Violation shall be served upon the property owner and/or
the violator by personal delivery, by certified mail, return receipt required,
to the address listed on the County Assessor's records for the property.
   D.   Within fourteen (14) days of the day on which the Notice of Violation
is served on the property owner, the property owner may request a hearing with
the Planning Commission to present facts and argument as to why the property
owner is entitled to relief from the Notice of Violation. The property owner
shall file the request for a hearing in writing with the Town Clerk. The
written request for a hearing shall set forth the property owner's position as
to why the property owner is entitled to relief. The Town clerk shall notify
the Planning Commission of the request for a hearing and the request shall be
placed on the agenda for the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning
Commission, but in no event later than thirty (30) days from the date the Town
Clerk receives the request for a hearing. The Planning Commission shall review
the Notice of Violation, the written request for a hearing, and any other
information that the property owner or any other interested party may present
and make a determination as to whether the violation set forth in the Notice of
Violation has taken place or exists. The Town shall have the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence the violation took place or exists.
   E.   If the property owner has not requested a hearing with the Planning
Commission within the fourteen (14) day period, or if after a hearing on the
matter the Planning Commission determines that the violation set forth in the
Notice of Violation has taken place, the Planning Commission or any other
person designated by the Town may record a Notice of Noncompliance on title to
the property that is the subject of the Notice of Violation. The Notice of
Noncompliance shall generally explain the nature of the violation, indicate
that no permits or licenses, including but not limited to, a building permit,
may be issued for any structure located on the subject property, and meet all
other requirements for the recording of documents in the Cache County
Recorder's Office.
   F.   If the Town subsequently determines that the violation of the Town's
Subdivision Code for which a Notice of Noncompliance has been recorded has been
cured or that the property which is the subject of the Notice of Noncompliance
is otherwise no longer in violation, the Planning Commission, Town Council or
other person designated by the Town shall record a release of the Notice of
Noncompliance on title to the subject property.
   G.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any ordinance or code of
the Town, until such time as the violation for which a Notice of Noncompliance
issued under this Section has been cured or otherwise resolved, the Town may
withhold or deny the issuance of any permits, licenses, or connections of any
kind including but not limited to, a building permit, water connection, or
other similar permit or connection, for the property in violation or any
structure thereon. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-10: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms used in this chapter shall have the respective meanings
hereinafter set forth:
ALLEY: A narrow public or private way less in size than a street, designed for
the special accommodations of the property it reaches, and not intended for
general travel. (A public thoroughfare less than twenty six feet (26') wide.)
ARTERIAL (MAJOR) STREETS: A street existing or proposed which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic way, as a controlled or limited access
highway, major street parkway or other equivalent term to identify those
streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan. Arterial Streets
through subdivisions shall have expanded open space adjacent to the right-of-
way. Arterial Streets run North and South.
BENCHMARK: A mark affixed to a permanent or semipermanent object along a line
of survey to furnish a datum level.
BLOCK: A piece of land surrounded by streets or other rights-of-way, other than
an alley, or land which is designated as a block on any recorded subdivision
plat.
CMC: An acronym for Clarkston Municipal Code.
COLLECTOR (MINOR) STREET: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
the major street system, including the principal entrance streets of
residential developments and primary circulating streets within such a
development. Collector Streets run East and West.
CONCEPT PLAN: A forecast of the development potential of the property. A map
and summary of the proposed development or land use, indicating the lands to be
included, a brief description of the proposed project, a timeline for the
proposed project, and any other information the applicant deems necessary to
provide the Town with a general overview of the proposed project. The Planning
Commission may only provide comments to current zoning.
CONTRACTOR: The person in charge of construction, who is duly licensed by the
State of Utah. This person may also be the subdivider.
CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY: The Clarkston Town Engineer.
EASEMENT: A quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege or
advantage in land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the
land, is granted to the public or some entity or part of the public.
FINAL PLAT: A subdivision map prepared in accordance with the provisions of
this title that is accurately surveyed and such survey marked on the ground so
that the streets, alleys, blocks, lots and other divisions thereof can be
identified, and which is designated to be placed on record in the office of the
County Recorder and the Town Clerk.
GENERAL PLAN: A plan on record at the office of the Town clerk, including maps
or reports or both, which has been recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the Town Council which helps to establish lines of current and
future land use, be it water, growth, roads etc. as provided in Utah Code.
INSPECTOR: The authorized inspector or representative of the Town.
LOT: A portion of the subdivision or parcel of land intended as a unit for
building development or transfer of ownership.
LOT FRONTAGE: The distance along the front of the lot bordering a street as
required in the various zones.
LUDMA: An acronym for Land Use Development Management Act.
MASTER STREET PLAN: That portion of the general plan which defines the future
alignments of major streets and their right of way, including maps or reports
or both, which have been approved by the Planning Commission and Town Council
as provided in chapter 9 of title 10 of the Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as
amended.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Clarkston Town Planning Commission.
PARCEL OF LAND: A contiguous quantity of land in the possession of, or owned
by, or recorded as the property of, the same claimant or person(s) or entity
(ies).
PLAT: A map or drawing on which the subdivision plan or project is submitted,
together with such information supporting data and other requirements as are
necessary to effect compliance of the subdivision project.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Planning Commission and Town Council for approval.
PROTECTION STRIP: A strip of land bordering a subdivision, or a street within a
subdivision, which serves to bar access of adjacent property owners to required
street improvements installed within the subdivision until such time as the
adjacent owners share in the cost of such improvements.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Construction of any work or product that becomes the
property of the Town. Such improvements may include, but are not limited to,
the construction and installation of roads, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, drainage
systems, water systems, fire hydrants, accesses to public rights-of-way and
such other construction required by this subdivision ordinance.
SECURITY OF PERFORMANCE: Financial assurance provided by the subdivider to the
Town that all improvements are constructed in accordance with all relevant Town
ordinances, regulations and standards, and that all expenses incurred for labor
and materials used in the construction of the improvements are paid for by the
subdivider.
SHALL: Shall is mandatory.
SPECIFICATIONS: The rules and regulations that govern development.
STREET: A public way for sidewalk, roadway, and utility installations, being
the entire width from lot line to lot line, and including the terms "road",
"highway", "land", "place", "avenue" or other similar designations.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, persons or corporation dividing or proposing to divide
land so as to constitute a subdivision to be shown on a recorded plat. May also
be referred to as a developer.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed
to be divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease, or development either on an installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms, and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
      1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for all residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be
used for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable
zoning ordinance;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not result in a violation of applicable
zoning ordinances; or
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one legal
description encompassing all such parcels of property.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision" under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the Town's subdivision ordinance.
TOWN ENGINEER: Any registered civil engineer licensed by the State of Utah and
appointed by the Town Council to accomplish the objectives of this ordinance,
provided that no such person may serve the Town and a subdivider simultaneously
where he would have to check his own work or the work of a member of his firm
in connection with any subdivision in the Town.
(Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 23-07, 8-19-2023; Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-11: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   The General Plan will serve as an advisory guide regarding the use and
future development of all land within the corporate boundaries of the Town. The
size and design of lots, the nature of utilities, the design and improvements
of streets, the type and intensity of land use, and the provisions for any
facilities in any subdivision shall be evaluated against the land uses shown
and the standards established in the general plan, the zoning ordinance, and
other applicable ordinances.
   B.   Trees, native land cover, natural watercourses, and topography shall be
preserved where possible. Subdivisions shall be so designed as to prevent
excessive grading and scarring of the landscape. The design of new subdivisions
shall consider, and relate to, existing street widths, alignments and names
unless determined otherwise by the Town. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-
02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-12: GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The subdivider shall prepare plans and plats consistent with the
standards contained in the most current version of the Clarkston Town Manual_of
Design_and_Construction_Standards and shall pay for the design, construction
and inspection of the public improvements required. The Town shall process said
plans and plats in accordance with the regulations set forth herein. The
subdivider shall not alter the terrain or remove any vegetation from the
proposed subdivision site or engage in any site development until the
subdivider has obtained the necessary approvals as outlined herein.
   B.   The Town engineer shall review the plans and plats for design; for
conformity to the general plan and to the land use ordinance; for the
environmental quality of the subdivision design; and shall process the
subdivision plats and reports as provided for in this title.
   C.   Plats and/or plans of proposed subdivisions may be referred by the Town
engineer to any Town departments and special districts, governmental boards,
bureaus, utility companies, and other agencies which will provide public and
private facilities and services to the subdivision for their information and
comment. The Town engineer is responsible for coordinating any comments
received from the public and private entities and shall decide which agencies
to refer proposed subdivision plats and plans to.
   D.   The Town engineer shall review for compliance the engineering plans and
specifications for the Town required improvements for the subdivision and
whether the proposed Town required improvements are consistent with this title
other applicable ordinances and the most current version of the Clarkston Town
Manual_of_Design_and_Construction_Standards and shall be responsible for
inspecting the Town required improvements.
   E.   The Planning Commission shall act as an advisory agency to the Town
Council. It is charged with making investigations, reports and recommendations
on proposed subdivisions as to their conformance to the general plan, land use
ordinance, and other pertinent documents. After reviewing a preliminary plat or
a final plat and the applicable requirements, the Planning Commission may
recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of the preliminary
plat or final plat to the Town Council.
   F.   The Town attorney shall verify that the security provided by the
subdivider is acceptable, that the subdivider dedicating land for use of the
public is the owner of record, that the land is free and clear of unacceptable
encumbrances according to the title report submitted by the subdivider and may
review matters of title such as easements and restrictive covenants.
   G.   The Town Council has final jurisdiction in the approval of subdivision
plats, the establishment of requirements and design standards for public
improvements, and the acceptance of lands that may be proposed for dedication
to the Town. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-13: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide any tract or parcel of
land which is located wholly or in part in the Town except in compliance with
this title. No final plat of any subdivision shall be recorded until it has
been submitted and approved as herein. A plat shall not be approved if such
plat is in conflict with any provision of the master street plan, land use
ordinance, this title, or any other state law or Town ordinance.
   B.   Land shall not be transferred, sold, or offered for sale, nor shall a
building permit be issued for a structure thereon, until a final plat or
drawing of a subdivision shall have been recorded in accordance with this title
and any applicable provisions of state law, and until the improvements required
in connection with the subdivision have been completed as provided herein.
Building permits shall not be issued without written approval of all public
agencies involved. No building depending on public water, sewer, energy
facilities, and street or fire protection shall be permitted to be occupied
until such facilities are fully provided and operational.
   C.   All lots, plots or tracts of land located within a subdivision shall be
subject to this title whether the tract is owned by the subdivider or a
subsequent purchaser, transferee, devisee, or contract purchaser of the land or
any other person.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to
receive a Certificate of Occupancy for a lot within a subdivision until water,
sewer, storm drainage and all other required underground utilities within the
subdivision are installed, inspected and approved by the Town, all curb and
gutter is installed, and all streets in the subdivision are paved.
   E.   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to allow no human
occupancy until all necessary utilities are installed and basic improvements
are adequate to render the subdivision habitable which improvements shall
include paved streets that are capable of supporting emergency vehicles. It
shall be unlawful for any subdivider to sell any portion of an approved
subdivision until the prospective buyer or builder has been advised that
occupancy will not be permitted until all required improvements are completed.
(Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-14: REQUIRED CERTIFICATES, PERMITS AND REVIEWS:
   A.   Application: Applications for each of the separate stages of
subdivision approval (preliminary plat, and final plat) shall be made to the
Planning Commission. Applications shall be made on the respective forms
provided and shall be accompanied by the proper fee and the documents and
information required by this chapter.
   B.   Approval: Action on that application for a stage of a subdivision
approval shall be completed in a timely manner after the date of submittal of
all required information and items to the Planning Commission. (Ord. 22-06, 8-
16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-15: FEES:
Any and all persons requesting approval on a subdivision preliminary plat,
final plat, and plans and specifications for the construction of improvements
shall first have paid all fees according to the most current prevailing fee
schedule adopted by resolution of the Clarkston Town Council. Said fee schedule
is an office checking and field engineering fee to be payable to the Town at
the time of each of the above-named submittals.
In addition to the above, a retainer fee for construction inspection, based on
the most current prevailing fee schedule adopted by resolution of the Clarkston
Town Council, shall be payable to the Town prior to any construction on
subdivision improvements. Costs for any necessary testing, shall be paid by the
subdivider, not the Town. Cost for any required materials testing shall be paid
directly by the subdivider or shall be reimbursed by the subdivider if payment
is advanced by the Town. Any failure by a subdivider to make timely payment as
required shall be grounds for the withholding of a building permit by the Town
for any subdivision of the subdivider within the Town. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022;
amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-1-16: FLOW CHART TABLE:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bb8413675fd6b9d0f93422ad736bfe05ffef1c1d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1050.png]
 
(Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 2
CONCEPT PLAN
SECTION:
11-2-1: Purpose
11-2-2: Application And Fees
11-2-3: Concept Plan Submittal
11-2-1: PURPOSE:
The concept plan is optional but recommended. Prior to submitting a preliminary
plat, an applicant may submit a written concept plan to the Planning
Commission. The concept plan is an informal discussion document only designed
to allow the identification of policies, procedures, standards and other items
that may be considered in the subdivision review and approval processes of
Clarkston Town once a subdivision application is received. The Planning
Commission shall give input, but not vote on the plan.
The concept plan shall be submitted at least fourteen (14) days prior to a
Planning Commission meeting.
A concept plan does not constitute an application for subdivision approval and
is in no way binding on the Town or the applicant. Any discussion that occurs
at a concept plan review meeting shall not be considered any indication of
subdivision approval or disapproval, either actual or implied. (Ord. 22-06, 8-
16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-2-2: APPLICATION AND FEES:
The applicant or applicant's duly authorized agent shall submit an application
to the Planning Commission for subdivision concept plan review and at the same
time, the applicant shall pay an application fee as provided in the most recent
prevailing fee schedule. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-2-3: CONCEPT PLAN SUBMITTAL:
The subdivider shall submit a digital version of the proposed subdivision
concept plan to the planning department and schedule to meet with the Planning
Commission. The proposed concept plan shall include the following items:
   A.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
   B.   Approximate acreage of subdivision.
   C.   Map of proposed subdivision, with property boundaries.
   D.   Zoning for subdivision.
   E.   The names of adjacent property owners.
   F.   Existing and proposed street layout.
   G.   Location and size of water sewer and storm water utilities.
   H.   Proposed lot layout including typical lot size.
   I.   North arrow.
   J.   Minimum scale one-inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). (Ord. 22-
06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 3
PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Purpose
11-3-2: Application And Fees
11-3-3: Preliminary Plat Required Information
11-3-4: Approval Of Preliminary Plat
11-3-5: Expiration Of Preliminary Plat Approval
11-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the preliminary plat is to require formal preliminary approval
of a subdivision by the Planning Commission in order to minimize changes and
revisions which might otherwise be necessary on the final plat. The preliminary
plat and all information and procedures relating thereto, shall, in all
respects, be in compliance with the provisions of this title and any other
applicable ordinances. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-3-2: APPLICATION AND FEES:
The subdivider of a subdivision shall file an application for preliminary plat
approval with the Town planning department on a form prescribed by the Town,
together with a digital version of the preliminary plat. At the same time, the
subdivider shall pay the appropriate filing fee as provided in the current
prevailing fee schedule. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIRED INFORMATION:
   A.   Preliminary plat requirements shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission at least fourteen (14) days prior to the Planning Commission
meeting. (NOTE: Scheduling of the case shall be dependent upon adequacy of data
provided to the Town.)
   B.   Contents: The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
      1.   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to scale not smaller than one
hundred feet (100') to the inch, and shall show a north arrow;
      2.   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      3.   The location of the subdivision including the address and the
section, Township and range;
      4.   The names and addresses of the owner, subdivider if other than the
owner, and the engineer or designer of the subdivision;
      5.   Date of preparation, scale (at least one hundred (100) feet to the
inch), and north point;
   C.   Existing Conditions: The plat shall show the following:
      1.   The location of the nearest benchmark and legal monument;
      2.   The boundary of the proposed subdivision and the acreage included;
      3.   All property under the control of the subdivider, even though only a
portion is being subdivided. Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the
subdivider's tract, a sketch of the proposed street system on the unplatted
parts of the subdivider's land shall be considered in the light of existing
major street plans or other Planning Commission studies;
      4.   The location, width and names of all existing streets within two
hundred feet (200') of the subdivision and of all prior platted streets or
other public ways, utility rights of way, parks, and other public open spaces,
permanent buildings and structures, and houses or permanent easements;
      5.   Section and corporation lines, within and adjacent to the tract;
      6.   Location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and of all
reservoirs within the tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet
(100') beyond the tract boundaries;
      7.   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet
(100') beyond the tract boundaries, indicating pipe sizes, grades, manholes and
exact location;
      8.   Existing ditches, canals, natural drainage channels and open
waterways and proposed realignments; including all easements located within the
subdivision plat and their dimensions.
      9.   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided land, showing
ownership where possible;
      10.   Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2')
excepting in mountainous or otherwise steep areas where a more practical
interval would be warranted;
      11.   Where applicable, location of the one hundred (100)-year floodplain
as determined by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
   D.   Proposed Plan: The preliminary plat shall show:
      1.   The layout of streets (designated by actual or proposed names and
numbers), showing location, widths and other dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys and easements which shall be in conformance to the adopted street master
plan;
      2.   The layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots;
      3.   Location of any necessary temporary turnaround easements.
      4.   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for
public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision;
      5.   Building setback line, including showing dimensions;
      6.   Dedications for water, sewers, drainage, utility lines and other
purposes;
      7.   Typical street cross sections and street grades where required by
the Planning Commission;
      8.   A plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to handle
stormwater drainage for the subdivision. Any disposal of stormwater in an open
waterway shall require approval of those responsible for the open waterway;
      9.   A plan for culinary water improvements and waste disposal
improvements for all lots proposed within the subdivision;
      10.   The preliminary plat must be stamped by the subdividers licensed
design engineer.
   E.   Additional Information Required. In addition to the preliminary plat,
the applicant shall provide the following information with the preliminary plat
application:
      1.   Current Title Report for the subdivision area.
      2.   Stamped envelopes with the names and addresses of property owners
within three hundred (300) feet on all sides of the subdivision.
      3.   An adequate traffic report prepared by a qualified traffic engineer
when required by the Town engineer.
      4.   Property Owner Agreements: Where necessary, copies of any agreements
with adjacent property owners relevant to the proposed subdivision shall be
presented to the Planning Commission. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02,
10-1-2024)
11-3-4: APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   The Planning Commission Clerk shall, upon receipt of the complete
preliminary plat application, distribute a copy of the plan and supporting data
to the Town engineer, Town attorney, Planning Commission, Mayor and Town
Council for review and written comments on their findings. Upon receipt of the
written comments on their findings, the Planning Commission Clerk will provide
this information to the subdivider. This may result in revisions to the
preliminary plat.
   B.   Public Meeting of the Planning Commission: The subdivider will meet
with the Planning Commission, present his/her plan, and respond to any
questions or concerns by commission members. The Planning Commission shall make
a recommendation to the Town Council to approve, conditionally approve, or
disapprove the subdivision preliminary plat. A motion to table any
recommendation may be continued to the next meeting if it is found that more
information is needed before making a decision. If the preliminary plat is
recommended for disapproval a written notice, stating the reasons for
disapproval, shall be provided by the Planning Commission to the Town Council
and the subdivider.
   C.   Public Meeting of the Town Council: Upon recommendation of the
preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, the Town Council shall consider
the preliminary plat application and all information provided therewith at the
next regularly scheduled meeting. After the Town Council has reviewed the
preliminary plat, required reports, and any municipal or staff recommendations,
it shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the application with any
required changes and/or additions it deems necessary. The Town Council shall
support its decision by findings of fact included in the meeting record. The
subdivider shall be notified in writing of the action taken by, and the
findings of the Town Council regarding the submitted preliminary plat.
   D.   If the Town Council denies preliminary plat approval, no further review
of the proposed subdivision shall be made by the Town, and a new preliminary
plat shall be required to reinitiate the subdivision process.
   E.   Granting a preliminary plat approval by the Town Council shall not
constitute a final acceptance of the subdivision by the Town Council. Nor shall
approval of the preliminary plat relieve the subdivider of the responsibility
to comply with all required conditions and ordinances, and to provide the
improvements and easements necessary to meet all Town standards and
requirements.
   F.   The receipt of a signed copy of the approved preliminary plat shall
authorize the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of the construction
drawings and final plat. In the event that the final plat is not presented to
the Planning Commission within six (6) months following approval of the
preliminary plat such prior approvals shall be void. (Ord. 22-06, 8-6-2022;
amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-3-5: EXPIRATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
Subject to any extensions as provided in section
11-4-2  of this Title, the approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective
for a period of six (6) months from the date the preliminary plat is approved
by the Town Council, at the end of which time the subdivider must have
submitted a final subdivision plat for approval. If a final plat is not
submitted for approval within the six (6) month period following approval, the
preliminary approval shall be void, and the applicant shall be required to
submit a new preliminary plat for review and approval subject to the existing
provisions of this code and all other applicable local, state, and federal
requirements in effect at the time of the submission of the application. (Ord.
22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 4
FINAL PLATS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose
11-4-2: Filing Deadline, Application, And Fees
11-4-3: Preparation And Required Information
11-4-4: Review By The Town Engineer
11-4-5: Review By The Town Attorney
11-4-6: Planning Commission Action
11-4-7: Review By The Town Council
11-4-8: Recording Of The Final Plat
11-4-9: Expiration Of Final Approval
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the final plat is to require formal approval by the Planning
Commission and Town Council before a subdivision plat is recorded in the office
of the Cache County Recorder. The final plat and all information and procedures
relating thereto shall in all respects be in compliance with the provisions of
this title. The final plat and construction plans submitted shall conform in
all respects to those regulations and requirements specified during the
preliminary plat process. Final plats may be submitted in phases, provided each
phase can exist as a separate project capable of independently meeting all the
requirements of this chapter. The separate development of said phases shall not
be detrimental to the subdivision nor to the adjacent properties in the event
the remainder of the project is not completed. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd.
Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-4-2: FILING DEADLINE, APPLICATION, AND FEES:
Application for final plat approval shall be made by submitting a digital
version of the proposed final plat together with construction plans, to the
planning department within twelve (12) months after approval or conditional
approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission. This time period
may be extended for up to six (6) months for good cause if the subdivider
petitions the Planning Commission for an extension prior to the expiration
date, however only one extension may be granted. At the time of application,
the appropriate fee shall be paid in accordance with the current prevailing fee
schedule. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-4-3: PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:
   A.   Preparation: The final plat must be prepared by a licensed land
surveyor on a sheet of approved mylar with waterproof black ink. The top of the
plat shall be either north or east, whichever best accommodates the drawing.
The final plat shall be made to a scale large enough to clearly show all
details, and in any case not smaller than one hundred feet (100') to the inch,
and workmanship on the finished drawing shall be neat, clean cut and readable.
   B.   Description And Delineation: The final plat shall show:
      1.   The name of the subdivision, as approved by the Planning Commission;
      2.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles and
curves used to describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be
reserved for public use and other important features. A boundary description of
the subdivision shall also be provided;
      3.   An identification system for all lots and blocks and names and
numbers of streets. Lot lines shall show dimensions in feet and hundredths;
      4.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines of
official monuments, which shall be accurately described in the plat and shown
by appropriate symbol;
      5.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
the length of all arcs;
      6.   The location of all monuments to be installed and accurately located
by the appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official
benchmarks, monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property,
shall be preserved in precise position;
      7.   The dedication to the Town of all streets and highways included in
the proposed subdivision;
      8.   T-posts with rebar and surveyor cap markers shall be shown on the
plat and placed at each lot corner prior to approval of the final plat;
      9.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for common uses of all property
owners;
      10.   Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property
controlled by a public agency or utility company, approval for the location,
improvement and maintenance of such streets shall be obtained from the public
agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in a form approved by
the Town attorney;
      11.   The final plat shall be prepared on twenty-four inch by thirty six
inch (24" x 36") approved mylar and shall have a one and one-half inch (1-1/2")
border on the left and a one-half inch (1/2") border on the three (3) remaining
sides;
      12.   The street address for each lot shall be shown on the final plat.
Street address shall be assigned by the Town;
      13.   All streets within the subdivision shall be numbered (named streets
shall also be numbered) in accordance with and in conformity with the adopted
street numbering system adopted by the Town;
      14.   All boundary, lot and other geometrics (bearings, distances, curve
data, etc.) on the final plat shall be close to an accuracy of not less than
one part in five thousand (1/5,000);
      15.   A legend and general notes or statements as required by the Town or
other interested parties and a north arrow and the scale of the drawing;
      16.   The location and dimensions of any and all easements within the
subdivision area. This includes but is not limited to easements across all lot
frontages that are adjacent to public streets and other required easements for
water, sewers, drainage, utility lines and other purposes. The utility easement
must conform with the most current version of the Clarkston Town Manual_of
Design_and_Construction_Standards.
      17.   The area of each lot in square feet or acres;
      18.   A basis of bearing shall be indicated on the plat.
   C.   Standard Forms for the Final Plat: The final plat shall include:
      1.   A registered land surveyor's certificate of survey in the form
required by state law;
      2.   The owner's certificate of dedication;
      3.   A notary public's acknowledgment;
      4.   The Clarkston's Planning Commission's certificate of approval;
      5.   The Clarkston Town Council's certificate of approval;
      6.   The Town engineer's certificate of approval;
      7.   The Town attorney's certificate of approval;
      8.   A space in the lower left-hand corner of the drawing for the County
Recorder's use;
      9.   The Board of Health certificate of approval in cases where sewage
disposal will be through the use of individual waste disposal systems.
   D.   Submittal: The final plat shall be submitted for approval with a title
opinion by a licensed abstract company showing the names of the owner or owners
of the subdivision and any encumbrances on the property.
   E.   Utility Easement Approval: The final plat shall show all utility
easements required for the installation and maintenance of utilities needed to
serve the subdivision. The final plat shall not be approved by the Town
engineer until the subdivider obtains the signature of an officer of every
utility company providing utility services in the Town, which signature shall
indicate that the utility easement is in a form acceptable to the utility
company's plans for providing services in the subdivision. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-
2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-4-4: REVIEW BY THE TOWN ENGINEER:
The Town engineer shall review the final plat and construction plans and
determine compliance with the engineering and surveying standards and criteria
set forth in the most current version of the Clarkston Town Manual_of_Design
and_Construction_Standards and all other applicable ordinances of the Town and
the State of Utah. It is incumbent on the design engineer to fully familiarize
themselves with the most current version of the Clarkston Town Manual of Design
and Construction Standards and prepare plans and plats accordingly. If, upon
initial review, the Town engineer deems the construction plans or plat to be
deficient or incomplete, the plans will be returned to the subdivider/design
engineer for revisions. As the culinary water and sanitary sewer authority, the
Town engineer shall review the construction plans for compliance with the water
and sewer master plan of the Town and the overall impact the development is
expected to have on those systems. The Town engineer shall sign the final plat
if the Town engineer finds that the subdivision and the construction plans
fully comply with the improvement standards required by this chapter, that the
survey description is correct, that the current water and sewer systems with
any proposed improvements are adequate to meet the needs of the development,
and that all easements are correctly described and located. The Town engineer
shall complete a review of the plat and construction plans within thirty (30)
days after being submitted for review to the engineer, unless a longer time is
necessary for good cause. If the final plat and construction plans comply, the
Town engineer shall provide written approval and forward the plat to the Town
attorney. If the final plat or the construction plans do not comply, the Town
engineer shall return the plat to the subdivider with comment. (Ord. 22-06, 8-
16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-4-5: REVIEW BY THE TOWN ATTORNEY:
The Town attorney shall review the final plat and the current title report to
verify compliance with the Town's regulatory requirements and to ensure it has
been properly prepared to allow for the legal transfer of individual lots and
the dedication of public and private land without encumbrances. The Town
attorney may also review public easements, protective covenants and other
documents where applicable. Upon satisfactory completion of the items specified
in this section, the Town attorney may provide written review of the plat to
the Planning Commission before the plat is presented to the Town Council and
make any recommendations necessary to bring the plat into compliance with any
state or Town requirements. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-4-6: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
Upon receipt of the final plat, the Planning Commission shall review the plat
to determine whether the plat conforms with the preliminary plat, with all
changes requested, and with all requirements imposed as conditions of
acceptance. If the submitted final plat is not acceptable, the Planning
Commission shall notify the subdivider and specify the respects in which it is
deficient. If the Planning Commission determines that the final plat is in
conformity with all requirements of the ordinances of the Town and with the
conditions of acceptance by the Planning Commission, it shall recommend
approval of the final plat and the chairperson of the Planning Commission shall
sign the plat in the appropriate block and forward the plat to the Town
Council. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-4-7: REVIEW BY THE TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Within a reasonable time, following approval of the final plat by the
Town engineer, the Planning Commission and the Town attorney, the final plat
shall be submitted to the Town Council for its review and consideration. The
Town Council shall not be bound by the recommendations of the Planning
Commission and may set its own conditions and requirements consistent with this
title. If the Town Council determines that the final plat is in conformity with
the requirements of this title, other applicable ordinances, and any reasonable
conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission or as set on the Town
Council's own initiative, that all fees have been paid as required, and that
the Town Council is satisfied with the final plat of the subdivision, it shall
approve the final plat. If the Town Council determines that the final plat is
not in conformity with this title or other applicable ordinances, or any
reasonable conditions imposed, it may disapprove the final plat specifying the
reasons for disapproval. Within one (1) year after the Town Council has
disapproved any plat, the subdivider may file with the planning department, a
plat altered to meet the requirements of the Town Council. No final plat shall
have any force or effect unless the same has been approved by the Town Council
and signed by the mayor and Town clerk, Town engineer and all other required
officials.
   B.   The Town Council shall not give final approval to any subdivision plat
until the Planning Commission has approved the plat. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022;
amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-4-8: RECORDING OF THE FINAL PLAT:
Following Town Council approval, and the signing of the final plat by the mayor
and Town clerk, and all other required officials it shall be the responsibility
of the subdivider to file the final plat with the County Recorder's office.
(Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-4-9: EXPIRATION OF FINAL APPROVAL:
If the final plat is not recorded within twelve (12) months from the date of
Town Council approval, such approval shall be null and void. This time period
may be extended by the Town Council for up to an additional six (6) month
period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing for an
extension prior to the expiration of the original twelve (12) months. No
extension will be granted if it is determined that it will be detrimental to
the Town. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Layout Standards
11-5-2: Lot Layout Standards
11-5-3: Street Layout Standards
11-5-4: Dedication Of Water
11-5-1: GENERAL LAYOUT STANDARDS:
   A.   The Town's general plan shall be used as an advisory guide for all
subdivision layouts.
   B.   Where trees, waterways, scenic points, historical spots or other Town
assets and landmarks, as determined by the Planning Commission, are located
within a proposed subdivision, reasonable steps should be taken to preserve
these features in conformance with the Clarkston Town Manual_of_Design_and
Construction_Standards. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-5-2: LOT LAYOUT STANDARDS:
The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide
satisfactory and desirable sites for building, and be properly related to
topography, to the character of surrounding development and to existing
requirements. A subdivision should not create lots which would make improvement
impractical due to size, shape, steepness of terrain, location of watercourses,
problems of sewage, driveway grades or other physical conditions. Lot layout
shall conform to the standards contained in the most current version of the
Clarkston Town Manual_of_Design_and_Construction_Standards. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-
2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-5-3: STREET LAYOUT STANDARDS:
Subdividers shall locate streets within the subdivision so that the streets
connect with existing public streets and shall meet the provision of the
adopted Town master street plan or the transportation section of the general
plan. Those streets which have not been designated on the master street plan
shall be as required by the Planning Commission and Town Council. Street layout
shall conform to the standards contained in the most current version of the
Clarkston Town Manual_of_Design_and_Construction_Standards. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-
2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-5-4: DEDICATION OF WATER:
As a condition of approval of the subdivision, the Town Council shall require
each subdivider, which has not received preliminary approval prior to the
adoption hereof, to provide one acre-foot of usable water per dwelling unit,
residential lot, commercial lot, or separate parcel created by the subdivision
whichever is greatest, to the Town. This contribution of water is intended to
assist the Town in meeting the water supply needs brought on as a result of the
development. This requirement for usable water may be satisfied through the
application of one or a combination of the following options:
   A.   Culinary quality water which, in the opinion of the Town, would qualify
for conversion to a municipal use with a point of diversion residing in an
existing Town diversion point or that may be transferrable to an existing Town
diversion point.
   B.   A subdivider or developer may in lieu of providing water, pay the
amount identified in the most current "prevailing fee schedule" as set forth by
the Town Council. Fees collected by the Town shall be earmarked for the purpose
of obtaining additional water rights or developing existing water resources.
The Town may refund any fees received in accordance with this option if the
subdivider or subdivider provides water in accordance with CMC A of this
section. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Department Standards
11-6-2: Subdivision Improvement Plans
11-6-3: Culinary Water
11-6-4: Storm Drainage
11-6-5: Street Improvements
11-6-6: Utilities
11-6-1: DEPARTMENT STANDARDS:
Standards for design, construction specifications and inspection of street
improvements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage, flood control
facilities, water distribution, fire hydrants and sewage disposal shall be
prepared by the Town engineer. All such standards shall be in conformance with
the standards adopted by applicable state and federal regulatory agencies. All
subdividers shall comply with the established standards provided they have been
approved by the Clarkston Town Council. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-
02, 10-1-2024)
11-6-2: SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
   A.   Subdivider shall be required to construct and install all public
improvements required by this Title and the Clarkston Town Manual_of_Design_and
Construction_Standards as a condition of approval of the subdivision.
   B.   Construction plans and specifications for all proposed improvements
shall be prepared by a professional engineer, licensed by the state of Utah, to
provide the design services for the improvement being constructed. Construction
plans shall conform to the standards contained in the most current version of
the Clarkston Town Manual of Design and Construction Standards. It is incumbent
on the design engineer to fully familiarize themselves with the most current
version of the Clarkston Town Manual_of_Design_and_Construction_Standards, and
prepare plans and plats accordingly. If, upon initial review, the Town engineer
deems the construction plans or plat to be deficient or incomplete, the plans
will be returned to the subdivider/design engineer for revisions. The Town will
not design the development or project through the "redline" process. (Ord. 22-
06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-6-3: CULINARY WATER:
All subdivisions shall provide a culinary water distribution system. Standards
for design are contained in the most current version of the Clarkston Town
Manual_of_Design_and_Construction_Standards. Such systems shall be in
accordance with Town standards and subject to the approval of the Town
engineer. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-6-4: STORM DRAINAGE:
A system to collect, convey, and dispose of storm water shall be designed and
constructed for all subdivisions and shall conform to the standards contained
in the most current version of the Clarkston Town Manual_of_Design_and
Construction_Standards. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-6-5: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
All subdivisions shall provide paved streets and improvements. Street
Improvements shall conform to the most current version of the Clarkston Town
Manual_of_Design_and_Construction_Standards. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord.
24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-6-6: UTILITIES:
All utilities including power, cable television, and telephone shall be
underground and shall be so placed prior to road improvements such as asphalt
surfacing. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 7
IMPROVEMENT BONDING AND WARRANTY
SECTION:
11-7-1: Security For Subdivision Improvements
11-7-2: Warranty Period And Warranty Deposit
11-7-1: SECURITY FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   A final plat of a subdivision of land shall not be signed by the mayor
and Town clerk without a certification by the Town engineer that the
improvements described in the subdivider's plans and specifications have been
constructed and installed in conformance with Town standards.
   B.   In lieu of installing all improvements prior to recording a final plat,
the subdivider may enter into a security of performance agreement (otherwise
known as a development agreement) acceptable to the Town as security to ensure
completion of all required improvements. The security of performance agreement
shall be in a form approved by the Town Council and may contain specific
provisions approved by the Town attorney. The agreement shall include, but not
be limited to:
      1.   Subdivider's agreement to complete all improvements within a period
of time not to exceed twelve (12) months from the date the agreement is
executed;
      2.   The improvements shall be completed to the satisfaction of the Town
and in accordance with Town standards as adopted by the Town Council;
      3.   The security for performance shall be equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the Town's engineer's estimated cost of the improvements to
be installed exclusive of power, natural gas, telephone, and cable television;
      4.   The Town shall have immediate access to the security proceeds;
      5.   The security proceeds may be released at intervals determined by the
Town engineer upon the request of the subdivider as improvements are completed.
   The amount of the release shall be determined by the Town but in no case
shall it be in excess of the amount estimated by the Town engineer at the time
the original security amount for the proposed and now completed improvement was
established. Such requests for release may be made only once every thirty (30)
days and no release shall be authorized until such time as the Town has
inspected the improvements and found them to be in compliance with the Town's
standards. The final ten percent (10%) of the security proceeds shall be
released following completion of all required improvements including power,
natural gas, telephone, and cable television provided no deficiencies are
found. All releases shall be by written authorization by the Town engineer.
   C.   The security for performance agreement shall require the establishment
of one of the following:
      1.   An escrow account, in any bank acceptable to both the Town and
subdivider. The bank shall agree to hold and apply the proceeds in the escrow
account only for the named improvements. The agreement shall give the Town the
right to withdraw those funds necessary to complete any improvements not
installed within the twelve (12) month time limit established;
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit which shall require the following
specifications:
         a.   Have an expiration date of not less than twelve (12) months,
         b.   Be obtained from a bank which meets the following standards:
            (1)   Have total assets of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000.00)
or more;
            (2)   Have an equity capital to total assets ratio of five percent
(5%) or more;
            (3)   Have a minimum capitalization of fifty million dollars
($50,000,000.00);
            (4)   Have a good profitability trend;
            (5)   Be approved by the Town attorney; and
            (6)   A cash bond agreement accompanied by a cashier's check
payable only to the Town of Clarkston.
   D.   No extensions in time will be granted for the completion of
improvements. (Ord. 22-06, 8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-7-2: WARRANTY PERIOD AND WARRANTY DEPOSIT:
   A.   In addition to the security for performance agreement described in CMC
11-7-1  of this chapter, the subdivider shall present a warranty deposit to the
Town equal to the percentage allowed by state law, UC 10.9a-604.5(3)(b) of the
total cost for all improvements.
   B.   A warranty period shall follow the most current version of the
Clarkston Town Manual_of_Design_and_Construction_Standards.
   C.   The warranty deposit may be made separately or with the security for
performance agreement. In any event, the warranty deposit shall be made prior
to the signing of the final plat by the mayor and Town recorder. (Ord. 22-06,
8-16-2022; amd. Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 8
SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL USE
SECTION:
11-8-1:    Purpose
11-8-2:    Scope Of Applicability
11-8-3:    Interpretation And Conflict Of Laws
11-8-4:    Definitions
11-8-5:    Subdivision Land Use Authority
11-8-6:    Subdivision Appeal Authority
11-8-7:    Application Requirements
11-8-8:    Pre-Application Meeting
11-8-9: Notice To Affected Entities
11-8-10: Review
11-8-11: Approval
11-8-12: Post-Approval Actions
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to comply with Utah Code § 10-9a-604-604.9 and
increase administrative efficiency in reviewing subdivision applications. (Ord.
24- 02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-2: SCOPE OF APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter applies to all subdivision-related applications or petitions where
the intended use is single family dwellings. This Chapter does not apply to
applications or petitions for other uses, except as specifically described
elsewhere in this Title. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-3: INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT OF LAWS:
Where any provision in this Chapter conflicts with state law, state law shall
prevail. Where any provision in this Chapter conflicts with other ordinances
enacted by the Town, the provisions in this Chapter shall prevail unless the
Town intended such conflicting ordinances not in this Chapter to amend this
Chapter. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, as used in this Chapter, shall have the
following meanings. Words and phrases not defined here have the meaning
expressed elsewhere in this Title or, if not defined in this Title, the meaning
defined by state law:
IMPROVEMENT PLAN: A plan to complete permanent infrastructure on the
subdivision that is essential for the public health and safety or that is
required for human occupation and that an applicant must install in accordance
with public installation and inspection specifications for public improvements
and as a condition of recording a subdivision plat.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Any road, water, electricity, natural gas, or telecommunication
facility, system, line, main, corridor, etc.
LAND USE APPLICATION: An application required by the Town and submitted by a
land use applicant to obtain a land use approval; this does not mean an
application to enact, amend, or repeal a land use regulation.
LAND USE AUTHORITY: An individual, board, or commission appointed or employed
by a municipality to make land use decisions.
PLAT: An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
other graphic representation of land that a licensed professional land surveyor
makes and prepares in accordance with § 10-9a-603 or § 57-8-13 of Utah State
Code (as amended).
WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY: A ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or storm water drainage
and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse. "Water conveyance facility" does not mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for culinary or
industrial water, or any federal water project facility. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-
2024)
11-8-5: SUBDIVISION LAND USE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Land Use Authority under this Chapter, except where otherwise
noted, is the Planning Commission.
   B.   The Land Use Authority is responsible for the following, but may
delegate any task to Town staff:
      1.   Rendering a land use decision on all subdivision applications and
petitions under this Chapter.
      2.   Reviewing all applications under this Chapter in an impartial manner
and according to the standards and deadlines described in this Chapter.
      3.   Providing feedback to applicants in the manner required by this
Chapter.
      4.   Scheduling and holding a pre-application meeting with potential
applicants as requested.
      5.   Keeping subdivision application forms and related informational
material up-to-date and publicly-accessible and distributing such forms and
materials to potential applicants as requested.
      6.   Providing notice to entities and parties as required in this
Chapter.
      7.   Signing application and petition approvals as required in this
Chapter.
      8.   Ensuring that documents are properly recorded with the County as
required in this Chapter.
   C.   As Subdivision application decisions are administrative, not
legislative, the Land Use Authority is authorized to make any land use decision
described by this Chapter without Town Council approval.
   D.   Except when operating as the Appeal Authority, the Town Council shall
not require the Land Use Authority to approve or deny an application under this
Chapter. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-6: SUBDIVISION APPEAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Appeal Authority for Town decisions relating to this Chapter,
except where otherwise noted, is the Town Council.
   B.   The Appeal Authority shall hear appeals on final decisions made by the
Land Use Authority and shall hear complaints about the conduct of the Land Use
Authority in administering the provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   A party appealing or complaining of a Land Use Authority decision under
this Chapter must exhaust its remedies under this section (by appealing or
complaining to the Appeal Authority) before bringing an action against the Town
in a court of law.
   D.   A party who has submitted a subdivision application or petition may
appeal or complain to the Appeal Authority under this Chapter. In such an
appeal or complaint, the party may appeal or complain only regarding the Land
Use Authority's treatment of that party's own application; a third party may
not appeal or complain of Land Use Authority decisions or conduct.
   E.   A party desiring to appeal or complain of a Land Use Authority decision
shall submit to the Appeal Authority the following in writing:
      1.   A brief explanation of the relief the party is seeking, the reason
the party submitted its application or petition, the Land Use Authority's
decision and treatment of the application or petition, and why the applicant
believes the Land Use Authority misapplied the provisions of this Chapter or
abused the discretion given it by this Chapter.
      2.   The most recent version of the application or petition the party
submitted.
      3.   Any supplemental documentation or information that the Appeal
Authority requests.
      4.   All appeals and complaints must be emailed or mailed to the Town
Recorder using the Recorder's official Town address and/or email account listed
on the Town website.
   F.   After receiving a complete appeal or complaint in accordance with this
Section, the Appeal Authority shall deliver a decision to the applicant, in
writing, no later than forty five (45) calendar days after the Appeal Authority
receives the appeal or complaint. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-7: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   To be considered complete, a subdivision application must include at
least the following elements:
      1.   An approved land use application that describes how the property
will be used after it is subdivided.
         a.   If the intended use is permitted by right under Town ordinances,
the land use application must include citations to the specific ordinance(s)
that the applicant believes authorizes the intended use.
         b.   If the intended use requires a conditional use permit or is
otherwise conditioned on Town approval, the land use application must include
an approved, Town-issued permit authorizing the intended use. Should an
applicant seek a use permit concurrently with a related subdivision
application, the subdivision application shall be considered incomplete until
the use permit is issued.
         c.   If the intended use is prohibited under Town ordinances and
requires a variance, the land use application must include an approved, Town-
issued variance authorizing the intended use. Should an applicant seek a
variance concurrently with a related subdivision application, the subdivision
application shall be considered incomplete until the variance is issued.
         d.   If the intended use requires a rezoning, the applicant must
obtain the rezoning before submitting an application under this Chapter. Should
an applicant seek a rezoning concurrently with a related subdivision
application, the subdivision application shall be considered incomplete until
the rezoning is effectuated.
      2.   A plat. The plat must be drawn to scale, in detail, and in
accordance with generally accepted surveying standards and the acceptable
filing standards of the County Recorder's office. The plat must include:
         a.   The proposed name and general location of the subdivision, in
bold letters at the top of the plat. The proposed subdivision name must be
distinct from any subdivision name on a plat recorded in the County Recorder's
office.
         b.   The boundaries, course, numbering, and dimensions of all proposed
parcels. All lots should be consecutively numbered.
         c.   The lot or unit reference; block or building reference; street or
site address; street name or coordinate address; acreage or square footage for
all parcels, units, or lots; and length and width of the blocks and lots
intended for sale.
         d.   The names and addresses of all adjoining property owners of
record, or the names of adjoining developments and the names of adjoining
streets.
         e.   The address and phone number of the land surveyor and/or engineer
who prepared the plat.
         f.   Sufficient data acceptable to the Town Engineer to readily
determine the location, bearing and length of all lines on the plat, and to
reproduce such lines upon the ground, and the location of all proposed
monuments, including contours at appropriate intervals.
         g.   Whether any parcel is intended to be used as a street or for any
other public use.
         h.   The names, numbers, widths, lengths, bearings, and curve data on
centerlines for all proposed streets, alleys, and easements (if applicable).
All proposed streets shall be numbered and named in accordance with the Town's
adopted addressing system.
         i.   The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies,
streams, and other pertinent features such as wetlands, buildings, parks,
cemeteries, drainage ditches, irrigation ditches, fences, and bridges.
         j.   The location and width of existing and proposed streets, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, easements, alleys, other public ways and easements and
proposed street rights-of-way and building setback lines.
         k.   Every existing right-of-way and recorded easement located within
the plat for underground, water, and utility facilities.
         l.   Any known and unrecorded water conveyance facility located,
entirely or partially, within the plat.
         m.   Location and size of all proposed water, secondary water,
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, irrigation or drainage ditch piping or other
subsurface improvements, including detailed provisions for collecting and
discharging surface water drainage.
         n.   Whether any parcel is reserved or proposed for dedication for a
public purpose.
         o.   The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set
aside for park or playground use, or other public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose thereof and conditions, if any, of the dedication or
reservation.
         p.   As applicable, formal, irrevocable offers for dedication to the
public of streets, Town uses, utilities, parks, easements, or other spaces.
         q.   One copy of the plat drawn on Mylar for signing and recording and
seven 11" x 17" (or larger, up to 36x48) printed copies for the Town's use in
the review process. The applicant must also provide a digital version of the
plat in a format that can be commented on by the municipality.
         r.   Seven sets of two 11" x 17" (or larger) aerial maps: one map
showing a close up of the proposed subdivision (with legend included) and the
second map showing the area approximately 1,000 feet around the boundaries of
the subdivision in all directions. The applicant must also provide a digital
version of the maps.
      3.   Reports and Studies, including:
         a.   A traffic study, if one is required by an applicable UDOT Access
Management Plan.
         b.   A map showing the proposed subdivision's location relative to any
formally-designated flood zones. A FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) should
be utilized.
         c.   Any other study or report reasonably necessary to ensure
compliance with Town design standards and improvement requirements.
      4.   An improvement plan, created in accordance with applicable portions
of section
11-3-5  and chapters
11-5  and
11-4  of this Title, for all public improvements proposed by the applicant or
required by Town ordinances.
      5.   Certifications, including:
         a.   An affidavit from the applicant certifying that the submitted
information is true and accurate.
         b.   The signature of each owner of record of land described on the
plat, signifying their approval of the plat and the application.
         c.   A Title Report or Title Insurance Policy for the land to be
subdivided verifying property ownership.
         d.   A Tax Clearance Certificate from the state indicating that all
taxes, interest, and penalties owing on the land have been paid.
         e.   Certification that the surveyor who prepared the plat:
            (1)   Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code 58-22; and
            (2)   Either:
               (A)   Has completed a survey of the property described on the
plat in accordance with state requirements and has verified all measurements;
or
               (B)   Has referenced a record of survey map of the existing
property boundaries shown on the plat and verified the locations of the
boundaries; and
               (C)   Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
      6.   Letters of approval by the culinary water authority, the sanitary
sewer authority, the local health department, the local fire department, and
the local public safety answering point.
      7.   A completion assurance for all public improvements required by the
approved improvement plan, or a statement that such improvements will be
completed before development occurs on the proposed subdivision and before the
applicant records the plat.
      8.   Binding dedication documents, including:
         a.   As applicable, formal, irrevocable offers for dedication to the
public of streets, Town uses, utilities, parks, easements, or other spaces.
         b.   If the plat is to be part of a community association, signed and
binding documents conveying to the association all common areas.
      9.   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format.
      10.   Payment of any application-processing fees required by the Town. In
addition to any fees listed on the Town's Fee Schedule, the applicant shall pay
the cost of any engineering, legal, or special consulting review of an
application.
   B.   The Land Use Authority shall produce, maintain, and make available to
the public a list of the specific items that comprise a complete land use
application, plat, and improvement plan and a breakdown of any fees due upon
submission or approval of the application.
   C.   The Land Use Authority may require, and the applicant shall provide,
additional information beyond the requirements of this Section or those
published by the Land Use Authority relating to an applicant's plans to ensure
compliance with Town ordinances and approved standards and specifications for
construction of public improvements.
   D.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, the Land Use Authority
may, in its sole discretion, waive any of the specific requirements found in
this Section on a case-by-case basis. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-8: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING:
   A.   A party intending to submit a subdivision application under this
Chapter may request a pre-application meeting with the Land Use Authority for
the purpose of reviewing any element of the party's proposed subdivision
application. The proposed application need not be complete for purposes of this
meeting and may-if the party desires-be limited to a concept plan.
      1.   If a party requests a pre-application meeting, Town staff shall
schedule the meeting within fifteen (15) business days after the request. The
meeting shall be scheduled at the earliest convenient opportunity, and, at the
option of the party requesting the meeting, shall occur at the next regularly
occurring Planning Commission meeting.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall conduct the meeting, provide feedback
on materials as requested by the party, and shall provide or have available on
the Town website the following at the time of the meeting:
         a.   Copies of applicable land use regulations,
         b.   A complete list of standards required for the project, and
         c.   Relevant application checklists. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-9: NOTICE TO AFFECTED ENTITIES:
   A.   Within fifteen (15) calendar days after receiving a complete
subdivision application under this Chapter, Town staff shall provide written
notice of the proposed subdivision to the facility owner of any water
conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within one hundred (100)
feet of the subdivision plat.
      1.   To determine whether any water conveyance facility is located within
one hundred (100) feet of a proposed subdivision, the Land Use Authority shall
review information: i) From the facility owner under Utah Code §10-9a-211,
using mapping grade global positioning satellite units or digitized data from
the most recent aerial photo available to the facility owner;
      2.   From the state engineer's inventory of canals; or
      3.   From a licensed surveyor who has consulted with a representative of
an existing water conveyance facility that services an area near the land the
application concerns.
   B.   To give water conveyance facilities time to provide feedback on
subdivision applications, the Land Use Authority shall not approve a
subdivision application under this Chapter sooner than twenty (20) calendar
days after the applicant submits a complete application. This waiting period
does not apply to revised applications the applicant may submit during the
application review process.
      1.   A water conveyance facility owner's failure to provide comments to
the Land Use Authority about a subdivision application does not affect or
impair the Land Use Authority's authority to approve the subdivision
application. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-10: REVIEW:
   A.   The Land Use Authority shall review all subdivision applications under
this Chapter in accordance with the requirements of this Section before
approving or denying a subdivision application.
   B.   The review process begins when an applicant submits a complete
application.
      1.   The Land Use Authority shall not review an incomplete subdivision
application, except to determine whether the application is complete.
      2.   If the Land Use Authority determines that an application is not
complete, it shall notify the applicant of the incompleteness, highlighting any
insufficiencies and explaining that the application will not be reviewed until
completed.
   C.   After the applicant submits a complete application, the Land Use
Authority shall review and provide feedback to the applicant in up to four
"review cycles."
      1.   A review cycle consists of the following phases:
         a.   Phase #1: The applicant submits a complete application (or, if
after the first cycle, submits a revised version of the complete application).
         b.   Phase #2: The Land Use Authority reviews the application in
detail and assesses whether the application conforms to local ordinances.
         c.   Phase #3: The Land Use Authority responds to the applicant,
citing any missing requirements or areas of noncompliance and providing a
detailed list of necessary revisions to the applicant, within thirty (30)
business days after the applicant submitted the complete application. For any
required modification or addition to the application or request for more
information, the Land Use Authority shall be specific and include citations to
ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the modification and
shall provide the applicant with an index of all requested modifications or
additions.
         d.   Phase #4: The applicant revises the application, addressing each
comment or requirement the Land Use Authority made. The applicant must submit
both revised plans and a written explanation in response to the municipality's
review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and
reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. If the applicant fails to
respond to a comment made by the Land Use Authority in its review, the review
cycle is not complete and will remain open until the applicant addresses all
comments.
   D.   The Land Use Authority shall not (nor shall any other representative of
the Town) require more than four review cycles for a subdivision application
under this Chapter. If no further revisions are needed, the Land Use Authority
may end the review period early and approve or deny the application.
      1.   This provision notwithstanding, for any subdivision application that
affects property within an identified geological hazard area, the Town is
exempt from limits on the number of permitted review cycles and the Town's
deadlines for reviewing and responding (Phases #2 and #3).
      2.   If the applicant makes a material change to the application not
requested by the Land Use Authority at any point in the review process, the
review process may, at the option of the Land Use Authority, restart from the
beginning of the first review cycle but only with respect to the portion of the
application that the material change substantively effects.
      3.   If an applicant takes longer than forty (40) business days to submit
a revised application and respond to the Town's requests for modifications and
additions (Phases #1 and #4), the Town shall have an additional twenty (20)
business days to review and respond to the revised application (Phases #2 and
#3 of the next review cycle or issuing an approval decision).
      4.   If an applicant takes longer than one hundred eighty (180) calendar
days to submit a revised application and respond to the Town's requests for
modifications and additions (Phases #1 and #4), the application shall, at the
option of the Land Use Authority, expire. If an application expires, the
applicant must restart the subdivision application process.
   E.   After the fourth or final review cycle is complete, the Land Use
Authority shall approve or deny the application within twenty (20) business
days.
      1.   If the Land Use Authority has not approved or denied the application
within twenty (20) business days after the fourth or final review, the
applicant may request a final decision. After such a request, the municipality
shall, within ten (10) business days:
         a.   For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans,
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-508(5)(d) to
review and approve or deny the final revised set of plans; or
         b.   For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review,
advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of
the right to appeal the determination to the designated Appeal Authority.
   F.   After the Land Use Authority provides comments in the fourth or final
review cycle, the Town shall not require further modifications or corrections
unless those modifications or corrections are needed to protect public health
and safety or to enforce state or federal law or unless the review cycle reset
due to the applicant making a material change that the Land Use Authority did
not request.
      1.   With the exception of modifications or corrections that are needed
to protect public health and safety, that are needed to enforce state or
federal law, or that arise from the review cycle bring reset, the municipality
waives noncompliant subdivision-related requirements that the Land Use
Authority does not identify during the review process.
      2.   The applicant shall make reasonable changes, unless prohibited
otherwise by a contract or deed, to the subdivision application to accommodate
the water conveyance facility to the extent required by Utah Code § 73-1-15.5.
   G.   The Town may conduct one (but no more than one) public hearing for the
purpose of asking questions of the applicant and receiving commentary on the
technical aspects of the application from affected entities, interested
parties, and the public. If the Town elects to hold this public hearing, the
hearing must occur before the end of the Land Use Authority's review period in
the fourth or final review cycle. Scheduling issues shall not extend the review
and approval deadlines in this Chapter.
   H.   Other chapters of this Title notwithstanding, the Land Use Authority
shall approve or deny a subdivision application under this Chapter after
reviewing a complete subdivision application as described in this Section. This
singular application and review process includes the combined elements of
traditional "preliminary" and "final" applications, as those terms are used in
Utah Code § 10-9a-604.2. For purposes of applying Utah Code § 10-91-604.1(3)(a)
and § 10-91-604.1(9)(b), this Chapter describes a "preliminary" review and
approval, with "final" approval happening automatically when the plat is
recorded.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bb8413675fd6b9d0f93422ad736bfe05ffef1c1d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1265.png]
(Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-11: APPROVAL:
   A.   The Land Use Authority shall approve any complete subdivision
application made under this Chapter that complies with applicable Town
ordinances.
   B.   A subdivision application is approved when:
      1.   The Land Use Authority informs the applicant of approval in writing;
and
      2.   The Land Use Authority certifies the approved plat, either by
signing the plat directly or by attaching a signed certification to the plat.
(Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-8-12: POST-APPROVAL ACTIONS:
   A.   The applicant shall record the approved subdivision plat with the
County Recorder's Office within three hundred sixty five (365) calendar days
after the Land Use Authority approves the subdivision application, provided
that the applicant has completed any improvements or posted any completion
assurance required by Town ordinances (notably by chapters
11-4  and
11-5 ) or described in the approved improvement plan. The applicant shall not
record the approved final plat until such improvements are completed or assured
in compliance with Town ordinances and the approved improvement plan.
   B.   An approved plat not properly recorded within the timeline specified in
Section
11-8-12 (A) is void, unless the Land Use Authority approves an extension. (Ord.
24-02, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 9
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-9-1:    General Purpose
11-9-2:    Definitions
11-9-3:    Applicability
11-9-4:    Required Conditions And Improvements
11-9-5:    Procedure
11-9-6:    Restriction On Further Subdivision Without Plat
11-9-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The intent of the minor subdivision process is to allow for small subdivisions
to be processed as quickly as possible in accordance with Town Code. (Ord. 24-
02, 10-1-2024)
11-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
MINOR SUBDIVISION: As used and further defined in
Chapter 11-9, any subdivision creating not more than three (3) lots, fronting
on an existing street, not involving any new street or road or the extension of
municipal facilities or the creation of any public improvements, and not
adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not
in conflict with any provision or portion of the General Plan, Official Map,
and any regulations established in the Clarkston Town Code. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-
2024)
11-9-3: APPLICABILITY:
The procedures set forth in this Chapter shall govern the processing of, and
the requirements pertaining to, minor subdivisions, and shall take precedence
over any other provisions of this Title to the contrary. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-
2024)
11-9-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
In order to approve a minor subdivision, the following conditions must be met:
   A.   The minor subdivision must not result in the creation of more than
three (3) parcels, including the parent parcel.
   B.   The area to be subdivided must have frontage on existing, improved
streets and be immediately adjacent to existing utilities. No minor subdivision
shall be approved if it requires the dedication of land for street rights-of-
way or other public purposes along any edge of the subdivided lots, including
streets identified in the Clarkston Town Master Plan.
      1.   Improved Streets: For the purposes of this ordinance, frontage must
be on existing paved streets in public rights of way, built per town
specifications which excludes dirt roads and all other unimproved roadways.
   C.   The minor subdivision must conform to the general character of the
surrounding area according to the Clarkston Town Master Plan for roads, water,
and town development. These plans are generally updated every 5 (five) years.
New lot lines must align with the Clarkston Town Master Plan for roads, water,
and town development and the general pattern of existing lot lines.
   D.   Lots created shall not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or
adjoining property and shall conform to the applicable provisions of the land
use ordinance.
   E.   Utility easements shall be provided as needed.
   F.   The minor subdivision shall not require any changes to existing
infrastructure.
   G.   A minor subdivision must be in compliance with the improvement
standards outlined in chapters 11-6 and 11-7 of this Title.
   H.   The minor subdivision application must include all the elements of a
complete application under section
11-8-7 , except that a minor subdivision application shall not require a plat.
      1.   An applicant shall submit to the Town-in place of a plat-both:
         a.   A record of survey map that illustrates the boundaries of the
parcels; and
         b.   A legal metes-and-bounds description that describes the parcels
illustrated by the survey map.
      2.   If the Town approves a subdivision application based on a record of
survey map and metes-and-bounds description, the applicant shall record the map
and description, signed by the Town, with the County Recorder's Office. This
shall be done in the same manner as is done for a plat under Section
11-4-8 , except that the City shall also provide the notice required in Utah
Code § 10-9a-605(1). (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-7-2025)
11-9-5: PROCEDURE:
Applications for a minor subdivision shall be reviewed and approved in the
manner described in
Chapter 11-8  of this Title. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024)
11-9-6: RESTRICTION ON FURTHER SUBDIVISION WITHOUT PLAT:
Real property that has been subdivided as a minor subdivision under this
Section, both the parent parcel and the parcel which was subdivided from the
parent parcel, may not be further subdivided pursuant to a minor subdivision
for three years from the submission of the original application for minor
subdivision. Any further subdivision of any property that has been subdivided
pursuant to a minor subdivision must be completed in accordance with this
Title, and all property that was part of the minor subdivision must be included
in, and be made part of, the plat and application for any subsequent
subdivision. (Ord. 24-02, 10-1-2024; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-7-2025)
