CITY CODE
of
CLEARFIELD CITY, UTAH
2000
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-17, passed 10-18-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Clearfield, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2024-17, passed October 18, 2024, and resolution
2006R-01, passed January 24, 2006. Ordinances of the City adopted after said
ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they are in
conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE 2025-03
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 7 OF THE CLEARFIELD CITY CODE
 
PREAMBLE: This Ordinance amends Title 7 – Motor Vehicles and Traffic Safety,
Chapter 3– Stopping, Standing and Parking, Section 18 – Using Streets for
Storage, Paragraph A - Restrictions; Title 7 – Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Safety, Chapter 3– Stopping, Standing and Parking, Section 23 – Restricted
Vehicles; Parking Regulations, Paragraph A – Defined, Subparagraph 3; Title 7 –
Motor Vehicles and Traffic Safety, Chapter 3– Stopping, Standing and Parking,
Section 24 – Restricted Recreational Vehicles, Paragraph B – Residential Areas;
and, enacts Title 7 – Motor Vehicles and Traffic Safety, Chapter 3, Stopping,
Standing and Parking, Section 28, Evasion of Parking Regulations for Restricted
Vehicles or Restricted Recreational Vehicles in the Clearfield City Code.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CLEARFIELD CITY COUNCIL:
 
Section 1. Enactment:   
 
Title 7 – Motor Vehicles and Traffic Safety, Chapter 3– Stopping, Standing and
Parking, Section 18 – Using Streets for Storage, Paragraph A - Restrictions is
hereby amended to read as follows:
 
7-3-18   USING STREETS FOR STORAGE:
A.   Restrictions: No person who owns or has possession, custody, or
control of any nonmotorized
vehicle, utility trailer, house trailer, boat, boat trailer or any other type of trailer shall park or store
such vehicle, trailer or boat, whether attached or unattached to a motor vehicle, upon any public
street or alley for a period of time more than twenty four (24) hours.
Such vehicle shall be
considered to be in violation of this section if parked in any one location for longer than twenty-
four
(24) hours or if the vehicle has been parked in one or more locations within the
same block one-half mile for longer than such twenty-four (24) hour period.
 
Title 7 – Motor Vehicles and Traffic Safety, Chapter 3– Stopping, Standing and
Parking, Section 23 – Restricted Vehicles; Parking Regulations, Paragraph A,
Subparagraph 3 - Restrictions is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
7-3-23   RESTRICTED VEHICLES; PARKING REGULATIONS:
A.   Defined: for purposes of this section, “restricted vehicle” shall mean:
 
1.   A vehicle or trailer with a rated capacity of one and one-half 
(1 ½) tons or more;
2.   A vehicle or trailer licensed for more than sixteen thousand 
(16,000) pounds gross;
3.   A vehicle or trailer with a length of more than forty five thirty feet
(45’) (30’) or a width of more than eight feet (8’);
4.   Construction vehicles or equipment, except as allowed under section 7-2-
11 of this title; or
5.   Farm tractors or self-
propelled implements of husbandry, or other agricultural equipment or
implements.
 
Title 7 – Motor Vehicles and Traffic Safety, Chapter 3– Stopping, Standing and
Parking, Section 24 – Restricted Recreational Vehicles, Paragraph B –
Residential Areas is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
7-3-24   RESTRICTED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
B.   Residential Areas: It shall be unlawful to park, place, store, or
otherwise leave a restricted
recreational vehicle upon any street in a residential are for a period of time linger than twenty four
(24) hours. Such vehicle shall be considered to be in violation of this section if
parked in any one location for longer than twenty four 
(24) hours or if the vehicle has been parked in one or more locations within
the same block one-half mile for such twenty four (24) hour period.
Title 7 – Motor Vehicles and Traffic Safety, Chapter 3, Stopping, Standing and
Parking, Section 28, Evasion of Parking Regulations for Restricted Vehicles or
Restricted Recreational Vehicles is enacted to read as follows:
7-3-28: EVASION OF PARKING REGULATIONS FOR RESTRICTED VEHICLES OR RESTRICTED
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
A.   The following constitute evasion of parking regulations, and shall not
avoid the regulations of this chapter or restart the calculation of time for
purposes of Clearfield City Code:
1. Moving a restricted vehicle or restricted recreational vehicle from its
original location on a public street, to any other location or locations on a
public street within one-half mile of the original location, if the cumulative
time of the vehicle at both or multiple locations would exceed the lawful
amount of time permitted at a single location; or
2. Removing an unlawfully parked restricted vehicle or restricted recreational
vehicle from a public street for a period of time of less than 8 hours, and
then returning the restricted vehicle or restricted recreational vehicle to a
public street within one-half mile of the original location.
B. Evasion of parking regulations shall constitute a separate offense.
 
 
Section 2. Repealer: Any provision or ordinances that are in conflict with this
ordinance are hereby repealed.
 
Section 3. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon its posting in three public places within Clearfield City.
 
DATED this 28th day of January, 2025, at the regularly scheduled meeting of the
Clearfield City Council.
 
                                             CLEARFIELD CITY CORPORATION
 
 
                                             _________________________________
                                             Mark R. Shepherd, Mayor
 
ATTEST
 
 
_________________________________
Nancy R. Dean, City Recorder
 
VOTE OF THE COUNCIL
 
 
AYE: Councilmembers Peterson, Ratchford, Roper, Thompson, Wurth
 
NAY: None
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-07
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3 OF THE CLEARFIELD CITY CODE
 
PREAMBLE: This Ordinance amends Title 3 of the Clearfield City Code by amending
Chapter 2, Section 2 Term of Office; Vacancy, Section 4 Compensation, Section 5
Powers and Duties, Section 6 Chairperson; Rules and Regulations and repeals
Section 8 Removal for Cause.
   
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CLEARFIELD CITY COUNCIL:
 
Section 1. Enactment:   
 
Title 3, Chapter 2, Section 2 – BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS, PLANNING COMMISSION,
TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY of the Clearfield City Code is hereby amended to read
as follows:
 
3-2-2: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY
 
Each member shall be appointed for a term of five (5)  three (3) years with a
maximum number three (3) terms or nine (9) years (consecutive or
nonconsecutive). A member that has served a combined total of nine (9) years
(consecutive or nonconsecutive) may be reappointed to the planning commission
following a reapplication, review and approval by the city council. A member
serving as a full commissioner at the conclusion of nine (9) years of service
shall be considered for reappointment as a full member and not an alternate if
the member chooses to reapply.  with no more than two (2) members' terms
expiring during any one year. Any vacancy occurring during the term of any
member of the planning commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or
disqualification, shall be promptly filled by the city council for the
unexpired portion of the term.
 
Title 3, Chapter 2, Section 4 – BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS, PLANNING COMMISSION,
COMPENSATION of the Clearfield City Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
3-2-4: COMPENSATION
 
The remuneration paid to members of the planning commission , including the
youth commission ambassador (per meeting which the member attends) shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00)  seventy-five dollars ($75.00),   the vice-chair of the
planning commission (per meeting which the vice-chair attends) shall be eighty-
five dollars ($85.00), and the chair of the planning commission (per meeting
which the chair attends) shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00)  one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for their services rendered. Upon approval of the city
council, members may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses actually incurred.
 
 
 
Title 3, Chapter 2, Section 5, Paragraph B, subparagraph 2, and Paragraph C –
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS, PLANNING COMMISSION, POWERS AND DUTIES of the
Clearfield City Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
3-2-5: POWERS AND DUTIES
 
   A.   General Plan:
1.    Preparation: It shall be the function and duty of the planning commission
to prepare and submit to the city council for its approval, a general plan for
the physical development of the city, including other areas outside of its
boundaries which, in the planning commission's judgment, bear relation to the
planning of the city. The planning commission may, from time to time, amend,
extend or add to the general plan, or carry any part or subject matter into
greater detail. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with Utah code title
10, chapter 9a, as amended.
 
2.    Surveys And Studies: In preparing the general plan, the planning
commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of the
existing conditions and probable future growth of the city and its environs.
The plan shall be made with a general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the city in accordance with
existing and future needs.
 
3.    Reports And Recommendations: The planning commission may make reports and
recommendations relating to the plan and development of the city to public
officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional and other organizations and citizens. In general, the planning
commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform
its functions and promote municipal planning. (Ord. 2008-07, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-
1-2008)
 
   B.   Zoning:
 
1.    Recommendations For Changes: The planning commission, through its own
initiative, may, or by order of the city council shall, make recommendations
for changes in the zoning map or in the text of the zoning and planning
provisions of this code and shall have all powers granted by law or by these
provisions in the preparation of zoning maps and the recommendations for zoning
in the city.
 
2.    City Council Action: After receiving the recommendations of the planning
commission, the city council may amend the zoning map and/or the zoning or
planning regulations. No substantial change (as determined by the city council)
shall be made in said amendment as recommended by the planning commission,
unless the same shall be resubmitted to the planning commission, which shall be
returned to the city council within thirty (30) days.
 
   C.   Subdivisions: It shall be the duty of the planning commission to review
and approve, or disapprove, all subdivisions of land as outlined in Title 12 .
No plat of a subdivision or land lying within the city shall be filed or
recorded in the county recorder's office until it shall have been submitted to
and approved in accordance with the terms of Title 12 and  by the planning
commission and city council, and such approval entered in writing on the plat
by the chairperson of the planning commission and the mayor for the city
council, or other designated members or employees.
Title 3, Chapter 2, Section 6 – BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS, PLANNING COMMISSION
CHAIRPERSON; RULES AND REGULATIONS of the Clearfield City Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:
 
3-2-6: CHAIRPERSON; RULES AND REGULATIONS
 
The planning commission shall elect from its membership a chairperson and shall
recommend adopt ion of by-laws to the city council  rules and regulations,
subject to the provisions of the laws of the state and the zoning and planning
regulations of the city to provide for the regulation of its procedure and the
conduct of its duties, and may amend such rules from time to time upon final
consent and approval by the city council . All such rules and amendments shall
be reduced to writing and shall be filed with the city recorder.
 
Title 3, Chapter 2, Section 8 – BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS, PLANNING COMMISSION,
REMOVAL FOR CAUSE of the Clearfield City Code is hereby repealed:
 
3-2-8: REMOVAL FOR CAUSE:
The city council may remove any member of the planning commission for cause
after a public hearing, upon written charges. After three (3) consecutive
unexcused absences, such member of the planning commission will automatically
forfeit his position and shall thereafter be replaced. (1966 Code § 3-1-3; amd.
2000 Code)
 
Section 2: Repealer: Any provision or ordinances that are in conflict with this
ordinance are hereby repealed.
 
Section 4. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon its posting in three public places within Clearfield City.
 
DATED this 25 th day of February, 2025, at the regularly scheduled meeting of
the Clearfield City Council.
 
                  CLEARFIELD CITY CORPORATION
 
                  ________________________________
                  Mark R. Shepherd, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
__________________________
Nancy R. Dean, City Recorder
 
VOTE OF THE COUNCIL
 
   AYE: Councilmember Peterson, Ratchford, Roper, Thompson and Wurth
 
   NAY: None
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-08
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 1 OF THE CLEARFIELD CITY CODE
 
PREAMBLE: This Ordinance repeals Title 1 – Administration, Chapter 16B – Code
Enforcement – Administrative Code Enforcement, Section 22 – Code Enforcement
Funds and Accounting in the Clearfield City Code.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CLEARFIELD CITY COUNCIL:
 
Section 1. Enactment:   
 
Title 1 – Administration, Chapter 16B – Code Enforcement – Administrative Code
Enforcement, Section 22 – Code Enforcement Funds and Accounting is hereby
repealed.
 
Section 2. Repealer: Any provision or ordinances that are in conflict with this
ordinance are hereby repealed.
 
Section 3. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon its posting in three public places within Clearfield City.
 
DATED this 25th day of March, 2025, at the regularly scheduled meeting of the
Clearfield City Council.
 
                                             CLEARFIELD CITY CORPORATION
 
 
                                             _________________________________
                                             Mark R. Shepherd, Mayor
 
ATTEST
 
 
_________________________________
Nancy R. Dean, City Recorder
 
VOTE OF THE COUNCIL
 
 
AYE: Councilmembers Peterson, Ratchford, Roper, and Wurth
 
NAY: None
 
EXCUSED: Councilmember Thompson
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-09
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE FOR CLEARFIELD CITY
CORPORATION.
 
PREAMBLE:   Ordinance 2008-06 enacted a consolidated fee schedule for
utilities, recreation, licensing, permits, impact fees, building rental, etc.
for Clearfield City Corporation. The Ordinance makes amendments to recreation
fees, building rental fees, Aquatic membership fees, solid waste fees, and
enacts green waste fees.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CLEARFIELD CITY COUNCIL:
 
Section 1. Enactment: Title 2, Chapter 5 of the Clearfield City Code is hereby
amended to read as attached in Exhibit “A.”
 
Section 2. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon posting.
 
Section 3. Repealer: Any Ordinance or sections or portions of ordinances
previously enacted by the Clearfield City Council which are in conflict with
the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed and replaced by this
Ordinance.
 
Dated this 25 th day of March, 2025, at the regularly scheduled meeting of the
Clearfield City Council.
 
                  CLEARFIELD CITY CORPORATION
 
 
                  ___________________________________
                  Mark R. Shepherd, Mayor
 
ATTEST
 
 
_________________________________
Nancy R. Dean, City Recorder
 
 
 
 
VOTE OF THE COUNCIL
 
AYE: Councilmembers Peterson, Ratchford, Roper, and Wurth
 
      NAY: None
 
      EXCUSED: Councilmember Thompson
 
      
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-16
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE FOR CLEARFIELD CITY
CORPORATION.
 
PREAMBLE:   Ordinance 2008-06 enacted a consolidated fee schedule for
utilities, recreation, licensing, permits, impact fees, building rental, etc.
for Clearfield City Corporation. The Ordinance makes amendments to utility fees
for sewer.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CLEARFIELD CITY COUNCIL:
 
Section 1. Enactment: Title 2, Chapter 5 of the Clearfield City Code is hereby
amended to read as attached in Exhibit “A.”
 
Section 2. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon posting.
 
Section 3. Repealer: Any Ordinance or sections or portions of ordinances
previously enacted by the Clearfield City Council which are in conflict with
the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed and replaced by this
Ordinance.
 
Dated this 24 th day of June, 2025, at the regularly scheduled meeting of the
Clearfield City Council.
 
                  CLEARFIELD CITY CORPORATION
 
 
                  ___________________________________
                  Mark R. Shepherd, Mayor
 
ATTEST
 
 
_________________________________
Nancy R. Dean, City Recorder
 
 
 
 
VOTE OF THE COUNCIL
 
AYE:
 
      NAY:
 
      
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-20
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 15 OF THE CLEARFIELD CITY CODE
 
PREAMBLE: This Ordinance amends Title 15 – Public Art; Title 15, Chapter 1,
Section 2 – Public Art, Scope; Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 3 – Public Art,
Interpretation; Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 5 – Public Art, Allowed Original
Art Murals; Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 6 – Public Art, Prohibited Murals;
Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 7 – Public Art, Permit Process; Title 15, Chapter
1, Section 8, Paragraph C, Subparagraph 2, subsection a – Public Art,
Enforcement, Abating and Removing Illegal Murals.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CLEARFIELD CITY COUNCIL:
 
Section 1. Enactment:   
 
Title 15 - Public Art is hereby amended to be named “Mural Art.”
 
Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 2 – Mural Art, Scope is hereby amended as follows:
 
15-1-2: SCOPE:
The intent of this chapter is to permit the placement of original art murals,
which are separate and distinct from wall signs as set forth in section 11-15-
8 of this Code. Murals containing text, logos, slogans, or advertising messages
of any kind are considered wall signs that must comply with the requirements
set forth in title 11, chapter 15 of this Code. Advertising messages refer to
words, images, or other content used to persuade an audience to take a desired
action, such as purchasing a product or service. Any mural not expressly
allowed by this chapter is prohibited.
  Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 3 – Mural Art, Interpretation is hereby amended
as follows:
 15-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the mural
regulations contained herein are declared to be the maximum allowable for the
purposes set forth. If the City Manager's designee determines that an
application needs further interpretation, he or she may request further review
of the application by the City Manager.
If the City Manager's designee makes the determination that an application be
denied, the City Manager shall, upon written request submitted by the applicant
to the City Recorder's Office, within five (5) business days after receipt of
such request, review and make a determination on the designee's determination
behalf. If the City Manager affirms the designee's determination, in whole or
in part, the person may appeal the final determination to the Second District
Court in accordance with the Utah Administrative Procedures Act, Utah State
Code section 63G-4-101, et seq.
Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 5 – Mural Art, Allowed Original Art Mural is
hereby amended as follows:
15-1-5: ALLOWED ORIGINAL ART MURALS:
Original art murals that meet all of the following criteria and which are not
prohibited will be allowed upon satisfaction of the applicable permit
requirements:
   A.   No mural shall be affixed on the front-facing facade of a building.
   B.   No mural shall contain any text, logos or trademarks, with the
exception of an artist's signature. No mural shall contain advertising messages
of any kind. (Defined in 15-1-2)
   C.   No mural shall extend more than six inches (6") from the plane of the
wall upon which it is tiled or hand-painted or to which it is affixed.
   D.   Proper installation of the mural shall allow it to remain in place,
without alterations, for up to five (5) ten (10) years without severe fading,
peeling, cracking, or other damage. The applicant shall certify in the permit
application that the applicant agrees to ensure quality installation so the
mural will last up to ten (10) years without alteration. 
Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 6 – Mural Art, Prohibited Murals is hereby amended
as follows:
15-1-6: PROHIBITED MURALS:
The following are prohibited:
    A.   Murals for which compensation is given or received for the display of
the mural or for the right to place the mural on another's property. The
applicant shall certify in the permit application that no compensation will be
given or received for the display of the mural or the right to place the mural
on the property.
    BA..   Murals which would result in a property becoming out of compliance
with the provisions of title 11, "Land Use", of this Code or land use
conditions of approval for the development on which the mural is to be located.
    CB.   Murals which depict obscene or other material, not constitutionally
protected under the First Amendment.
Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 7 – Mural Art, Permit Process is hereby amended as
follows:
15-1-7: PERMIT PROCESS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful for any person to affix an original art mural on any property
located within the City without first obtaining a permit from the City. A fee
for the permit shall be paid by the applicant in accordance with the City's
consolidated fee schedule.
   B.   Original Art Mural Permit Application Process: The City Manager or
designee shall approve any application for an original art mural that fully
complies with the following standards:
      1.   Completed "Original Art Mural" application form, including the
signature of the property owner and mural artist.
      2.   Three 8.5 inch x 11-inch copies of A concept plan drawn to scale,
suitable for photocopying, that identifies:
         a.   Property lines;
         b.   Building location and facade on which the mural will be located;
         c.   Names of street that abut site;
         d.   North arrow.
      3.   Three 8.5-inch x 11-inch copies A concept plan of building
elevations, drawn to scale, suitable for photocopying, that identify:
         a.   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed mural;
         b.   The building eave/cornice and roof line.
      4.   Details about how the mural is affixed to building facade.
      5.   Written description of material(s) used for the mural.
6.    A visual design mockup to scale of the proposed mural.
       7.   Stamped and addressed envelopes provided to the City, for the
properties adjacent to the proposed mural location. The envelopes should
include a copy of the application of the proposed mural and a copy of the
concept plan.
      8.   Original art mural permit fee in accordance with the City's
consolidated fee schedule.
Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 8, Paragraph C, Subparagraph 2, subsection a –
Mural Art, Enforcement, Abating and Removing Illegal Murals is hereby amended
as follows:
15-1-8: ENFORCEMENT:
 2.   Abating And Removing Illegal Murals:
         a.   Murals tiled, affixed, or painted on private property in
violation of this chapter shall be brought into conformance within thirty (30)
calendar days of written notice by the City, either through removal of the
mural or by obtaining a mural permit. Any mural not brought into compliance
within the time period given in the notice may at once be abated and removed by
the City Manager or designee. The person responsible for any such illegal mural
shall be liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof, and the City is
authorized to effect affect the collection of said cost.
 
 
 
 
Section 2. Repealer: Any provision or ordinances that are in conflict with this
ordinance are hereby repealed.
 
Section 3. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon its posting in three public places within Clearfield City.
 
 
 
DATED this 23rd day of September, 2025, at the regularly scheduled meeting of
the Clearfield City Council.
 
 
 
                  CLEARFIELD CITY CORPORATION
 
 
                  ___________________________________
                  Mark R. Shepherd, Mayor
 
 
ATTEST
 
 
_________________________________
Nancy R. Dean, City Recorder
 
VOTE OF THE COUNCIL
 
AYE: Councilmembers Peterson, Ratchford, Roper and Wurth
 
NAY: None
 
ABSENT: Karece Thompson
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CLEARFIELD CITY ORDINANCE 01-17
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE UTAH MUNICIPAL CODE FOR THE CITY OF CLEARFIELD
   WHEREAS, from and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City Code
of the City of Clearfield, Utah, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council; and
   WHEREAS, there is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Recorder, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that the said office is regularly
open; and
   WHEREAS, all ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code; and
   WHEREAS, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change
or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or to
insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby; and
   WHEREAS, all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Clearfield City Council that this
ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded and shall be in
full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and publication in
pamphlet form as provided by law.
   Passed and adopted this 28th day of August, 2001.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fe9b739d65a2412fbdac57f09cec052be919e64/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2110.gif]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Conflicting Provisions
1-1-6: Footnotes And Appendices
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the Official City Code of Clearfield. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CLEARFIELD CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1966 Code § 1-2-1; amd. 2000
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1966 Code § 1-2-3; amd. 2000 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1966 Code §1-2-2; amd. 2000 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the City
Recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the City Recorder. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and
shall be returned to the office of the City Recorder when directed so to do by
order of the City Council. (2000 Code)
1-1-5: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Whenever anything in this Code or amendments thereto shall be or become in
conflict with any provision of the laws of the State, such provision of this
Code shall be deemed to be repealed and to be of no effect for such period as
such law so in conflict therewith shall remain in effect and such law shall
govern. (1966 Code § 1-2-5)
1-1-6: FOOTNOTES AND APPENDICES:
The footnotes and appendices are not a part of this Code, but are for reference
purposes. (1966 Code § 1-2-7)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the City passed prior
to the adoption of this City Code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this City Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the City; and all special ordinances. (1966 Code §§1-4-
1, 1-4-2; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this Section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (1966 Code § 1-4-3; amd. 2000 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2000 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect. (1966 Code § 1-4-3; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Scope Of Section: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (2000 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1966 Code § 1-2-6; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. The use of any verb in the
present tense shall include the future and past tense when applicable. The word
shall is always mandatory and not merely directory. (1966 Code § 1-2-4; amd.
2000 Code)
   B.   All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to
the common use and understanding of the language; the technical words and
phrases and such other words and phrases as may have acquired a particular
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such particular
meaning.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license or permit is required by any ordinance of the
city.
CITY: The city of Clearfield, Davis County, Utah.
CITY ATTORNEY: The individual appointed to act as the city attorney of the
city.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of
Clearfield, Utah.
CITY RECORDER: The individual appointed to act as the city recorder of the
city.
CODE: The code of the city of Clearfield, Utah.
COUNTY: Davis County, Utah.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Clearfield".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
HIGHWAY: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words "County
way", "County road", "common road", and "State road".
KNOWINGLY: A knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act or omission
within the provisions of this Code. It does not require a knowledge of the
unlawfulness of such an act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation. The term "license" includes any certificate, permit or license
issued by the City.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of this City.
MISDEMEANOR 1 : Any offense in violation of the provisions of this Code. It is
a lesser offense than a felony, as defined in State Statute.
MUNICIPAL JUSTICE COURT: The Municipal Justice Court of Clearfield, Utah.
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE: Imports a want of such attention to the nature
or probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent person ordinarily
bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the sensibilities of reasonable
persons, or any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health
and welfare of inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its
perpetuation can reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the
property of a person or persons within the community.
OCCUPANT, TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS, OFFICIALS: Any elected or appointed person employed by the City,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Whenever reference is made in
this Code to a City officer or official by title only, this shall be construed
as though followed by the words "of the City of Clearfield".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE: A legal term used to mean that you have enough evidence
to prove something by pointing to some basic facts, but that your proof can be
refuted.
PROPERTY: Both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words "County way",
"County road", "common road", and "State road".
STATE: The State of Utah.
STREET: Alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public squares, public
places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and intersections.
TENANT, OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TIME COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any
ordinance or in any resolution or order of the City, when expressed in days,
shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last day,
except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day shall
be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a Sunday or
legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal holidays
shall be excluded.
WEEK: Any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate the law or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1966 Code § 1-5-1; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 2006-12, 9-12-
2006; Ord. 2009-13, 11-24-2009; Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Liability
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this Chapter shall apply.
      2.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced. (1966 Code § 1-6-3)
   B.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 : Unless otherwise specifically
authorized by statute, the City Council may provide a penalty for the violation
of any City ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301, or by a term of imprisonment
up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of imprisonment. The City
Council may prescribe a minimum penalty for the violation of any City ordinance
and may impose a civil penalty for the unauthorized use of City property,
including, but not limited to, the use of parks, streets and other public
grounds or equipment. Rules of civil procedure shall be substantially followed.
   C.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a Class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a Class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   D.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a Class C misdemeanor.
   E.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the conviction is of a Class B
misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) when the conviction is of a
Class C misdemeanor conviction or infraction conviction.
   F.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this Code, or the ordinances of the City, or for an offense
defined outside of this Code over which this City has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the conviction is for a Class
B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the conviction is for a Class
C misdemeanor conviction or for an infraction conviction. (2000 Code)
   G.   License Revocation: When a person is convicted of a violation of any
section of this Code, any license previously issued by the City to such person
may be revoked by the Municipal Justice Court or the City Council. (1966 Code §
1-6-2; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-3-703.
2 2. U.C.A. § 76-3-204.
3 1. U.C.A. § 76-3-205.
4 2. U.C.A. § 76-3-301.
5 3. U.C.A. § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this Code or the
ordinances of this City shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this Code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this Chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this Code or any ordinance of this City when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a Class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this Code or other
ordinances of this City, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this Code or other ordinances of this City which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction. (2000 Code)
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this Code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (1966 Code § 1-6-3; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: LIABILITY:
   A.   Employers And Agents: When the provision of an ordinance or the
provisions of this Code prohibit the commission or omission of an act, not only
the person actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the direct act, but
also the employer and all other persons concerned or aiding or abetting therein
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty prescribed
for the offense. (1966 Code § 1-6-4)
   B.   Officers: No provision of this Code designating the duties of any
officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee
liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty,
unless the intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (1966 Code § 1-6-5)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Name
1-5-2: Corporate Seal
1-5-1: CORPORATE NAME:
The official and legal name of this Municipal corporation shall be CLEARFIELD
CITY. Whenever deemed desirable, appropriate or necessary to the execution of
any legal document, there may be added to the official name of this City the
additional words "a Municipal corporation" for the purpose of designating the
municipal character of said corporation. (1966 Code § 1-1-1)
1-5-2: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Described: The Seal heretofore provided and used by the City is
described as follows: Two inches (2") in diameter, the impression of which
represents two (2) stylized "C" in the center and an inscription around the
outer circle bearing the words "Clearfield City Municipal Corporation", and
such Seal is hereby declared to have been that it is now and hereafter shall be
the Corporate Seal of the City. (1966 Code § 1-1-2; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Official Seal: This Seal shall be affixed and used by the City as its
Official Seal of record.
   C.   Custody; Use: The Seal shall be in the custody and care of the City
Recorder and used only and as specified by State law. (Res. 88R-06, 6-28-1988)
   D.   Facsimile: A facsimile of the Corporate Seal is hereby reproduced as
follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fe9b739d65a2412fbdac57f09cec052be919e64/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2112.gif]
(1966 Code § 1-1-3; amd. Res. 00R-02, 1-25-2000)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Membership
1-6-2: Mayor As Member Of City Council
1-6-3: Municipal Administration
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-5: Ordinances
1-6-1: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The legislative and governing body of the city shall be
the mayor and city council. The city council shall be a council of six (6)
persons, one of whom shall be the mayor and the remaining five (5) shall be
council members. (1966 Code § 1-9-1; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Vacancies: Mayor or city council vacancies shall be filled as provided
in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510, as amended. (1966 Code § 1-7-10; amd.
2000 Code)
1-6-2: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Chief Executive: The mayor shall be the chief executive of the city.
   B.   Presiding Officer; Voting: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of
the city council, but shall only vote on each matter for which there is a tie
vote of the other council members present at a meeting, when the council is
voting on whether to appoint or dismiss a city manager, or when the council is
voting on an ordinance that enlarges or restricts the mayor's powers, duties,
or functions. The mayor shall, from time to time, give the city council
information concerning the affairs of the city and shall recommend for their
consideration such measures as he may deem expedient. The mayor may call a
special meeting of the city council by giving notice as provided in Utah Code
Annotated title 52, chapter 4, as amended.
   C.   Signature Required: The mayor shall sign all city resolutions and
ordinances and is hereby authorized and empowered to sign notes, contracts
(including change orders and extensions), leases and other writings to which
the city is a party, when authorized by law or so directed by the city council.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The mayor shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   Pardons: The mayor may remit fines and forfeitures and release any
person imprisoned for violation of any city ordinance, but he shall report any
such remission and release with the reasons therefor to the city council at its
next session.
      2.   Require Aid: The mayor, when necessary, may call upon every male
inhabitant of the city over the age of twenty one (21) years to aid in
enforcing the laws and ordinances and in suppressing riots and other disorderly
conduct.
      3.   Other Duties; Generally: The mayor shall have such other duties and
powers as may be prescribed by state statutes, the city council or this code.
   E.   Mayor Pro Tem: Each calendar year the mayor shall appoint a member of
the city council to act as mayor pro tempore during the temporary absence or
disability of the mayor. The mayor's annual appointment of the mayor pro
tempore shall be subject to the advice and consent of the city council. During
such absence or disability, the mayor pro tempore shall possess the powers of
mayor, except that the mayor pro tempore shall continue to cast votes as a
member of the city council. The appointment and approval of a mayor pro tempore
shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting. In the absence of both the
mayor and the mayor pro tempore, when necessary, the city council may elect one
of its members to serve as the mayor pro tempore until either the mayor or the
appointed mayor pro tempore returns. (Ord. 2008-08, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-1-2008;
amd. Ord. 2012-14, 12-11-2012; Ord. 2012-15, 12-11-2012, eff. 1-1-2013; Ord.
2019-23, 9-10-2019)
1-6-3: MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The mayor and city council, as the legislative and
governing body, shall have, exercise and discharge all the rights, powers,
privileges and authority conferred by the laws of the state upon the city and
shall perform all duties that may be required of them by law. Such body shall
also administer all local laws and perform all duties legally established by
city ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of the city council elected or legally appointed
shall constitute a quorum to do business, except when any act, by law or
necessity, requires the unanimous concurrence of all members of the city
council.
   C.   Salary: The mayor and members of the city council shall each receive a
monthly salary and other compensation for their services as set forth in the
compensation schedule in the annual budget, as adopted after public hearing.
(Ord. 2013-13, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   Date; Time: Regular meetings of the city council shall be scheduled
for the second and fourth Tuesdays of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
in the Clearfield City Hall. A meeting may be canceled if the meeting day falls
on a legal holiday or when the mayor deems there to be no business for the city
council to consider with the stipulations that the cancellation shall be
noticed in the same manner as a regular meeting and the cancellation shall not
interfere with Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-502 requiring a city council to
meet at least once each month.
      2.   Conduct: The city council shall sit with open doors and keep a
journal of its own proceedings. The mayor or mayor pro tempore shall act as the
presiding officer. The ayes and nays shall be taken upon all ordinances and all
propositions to create any liability against the city, and in all other cases
at the request of any member of the city council, which shall be entered upon
the journal of its proceedings. The concurrence of a majority of the members of
the city council elected or legally appointed shall be necessary for the
passage of any ordinance or proposition creating any liability against the city
regardless of absence or vacancy. (1966 Code § 1-9-5)
   B.   Notice Requirements:
      1.   Annual: The city recorder shall annually give notice of the meeting
schedule of the forthcoming year. If during any year the annual meeting
schedule for that year is revised, the city recorder shall give notice of the
revised annual meeting schedule in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title
52, chapter 4, as amended.
      2.   Regular Meeting: In addition to the annual meeting notice
requirements set forth in subsection B1, the city recorder shall give notice of
the agenda, date, time and place of each regular meeting of the city council in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4, as amended.
   C.   Special Meetings: The mayor or two (2) city council members may order
the convening of a special meeting, if the business of the city requires it.
Under this circumstance, the city recorder shall provide notice of the special
meeting to each city council member by delivering the notice personally or by
leaving it at each council member's usual place of abode. Notice of the special
meeting may also be conveyed by a telephone conversation, voice mail, or
electronic notice if personal delivery is not accomplished. All other notice
and voting requirements shall be as required by Utah Code Annotated title 52,
chapter 4, as amended. (1966 Code § 1-9-5)
   D.   Emergency Meetings: When, as a result of unforeseen circumstances, it
is necessary for the city council to hold an emergency meeting to consider
matters of an urgent or emergency nature, the best notice practicable shall be
given. No such emergency meeting of a public body shall be held unless an
attempt has been made to notify all of the members and a majority votes in the
affirmative to hold the meeting.
   E.   Permanent Record: A record of the proceedings of all meetings of the
city council, regular or special, shall be made and put in permanent form by
the city recorder in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4.
Such records shall be open to public inspection during regular office hours and
at reasonable times.
   F.   Rules; Expulsion Of Members: The city council shall determine its own
rules of proceedings, may punish its members for disorderly conduct and with
the concurrence of two-thirds (2/3) of the members present at any meeting, may
expel a member for cause. (1966 Code § 1-9-7)
   G.   Action On Committee Reports: Any report of a committee of the city
council shall, at the request of any two (2) members, be deferred for final
action thereon to the next regular meeting after the report is made. (1966 Code
§ 1-9-8)
   H.   Electronic Meetings: The city council and its boards and commissions
may meet electronically to conduct the necessary business of the city. In order
to do so in an orderly fashion, the following procedures shall be followed:
      1.   Anchor Location: The Clearfield city council chambers located at 55
South State, is intended to be the anchor location whenever possible. If an
alternative location is to be used or if multiple locations are to be used,
notice of those locations will be given as early as is practicable.
      2.   Notice: Notice of any electronic meeting will be as provided for in
state law. In addition thereto, notice of the meeting will be posted at the
anchor location, or locations, with additional notice going to a newspaper of
general circulation and a local media correspondent. Notice of the electronic
meeting will be provided to the members of the convening bodies at least twenty
four (24) hours before the meeting, if possible. The notice shall also contain
a description on how the members of the convening bodies will be connected to
the electronic meeting.
      3.   Procedures For The Meeting: To the extent possible, electronic
meetings will be conducted in the same manner as regular meetings. To ensure
full participation by all members, additional procedures and guidelines shall
be employed.
         a.   The presiding official shall call the meeting to order and have a
roll call to establish that a quorum is present.
         b.   If the meeting is conducted telephonically, then a speakerphone
will be connected in such a manner that comments made by the members
participating electronically will be broadcast through the public address
system at the anchor location. To ensure full participation each member
present, and those participating electronically, will be given a specific
opportunity to make inquiries and participate in the discussion through a roll
call method. Votes taken in these circumstances shall be by roll call method,
with each member audibly verbalizing their vote.
         c.   If a member or members are participating by e-mail or instant
messaging, the e-mail or instant messaging shall either be projected upon a
screen with a person assigned to read aloud, into the public address system,
comments made, or if no projection system exists, then a person will be
assigned to read said messages into the public address system. The person to do
the reading will be assigned by the respective member(s) participating
electronically. (Res. 87, 1977; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 2006-17, 10-24-2006; Ord.
2007-19, 7-10-2007; Ord. 2019-23, 9-10-2019)
1-6-5: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The city council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Penalty For Violation: Unless otherwise specifically authorized by
statute, the city council may provide a penalty for the violation of any city
ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. The city council may prescribe a minimum penalty for the
violation of any city ordinance and may impose a civil penalty for the
unauthorized use of city property, including, but not limited to, the use of
parks, streets and other public grounds or equipment. Rules of civil procedure
shall be substantially followed.
   C.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states: "Be it ordained by the city
council of Clearfield City, Utah:"; (1966 Code § 1-3-1; amd. 2000 Code)
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
city ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance; and
      9.   A place for the city recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the city.
   D.   Effective Date: Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall
become effective immediately after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the city council, whichever is sooner.
   E.   Publication And Posting: All ordinances, except those enacted pursuant
to Utah Code Annotated sections § 10-3-706 to §10-3-710, as amended, before
taking effect, shall be deposited in the office of the city recorder.
Publication and posting shall be in accordance with Utah Code Annotated § 10-3-
711 et. seq., as amended. Any state law relating to building or safety
standards, city functions, administration, control, or regulations, may be
adopted and shall take effect without further publication or posting if
reference is made to the state code. (Ord. 79-12, 10-9-1979; amd. 2000 Code;
Ord. 2019-23, 9-10-2019; Ord. 2022-14, 6-14-2022)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Elective Officers
1-7-2: Campaign Finance Disclosure Requirements
1-7-3: Appointive Officers
1-7-4: Oath And Bond
1-7-5: Salaries (Rep. by Ord. 2013-13, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
1-7-6: Records Open To Inspection
1-7-7: Financial Provisions
1-7-8: Delivery Of Property To Successor
1-7-9: Administrative Appeal Procedure
1-7-10: Municipal Ethics Commission
1-7-1: ELECTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Eligibility And Qualifications: No person shall be eligible to any
elective office who is not a qualified elector of the City, nor shall any
person be eligible to any office who is a defaulter to the corporation. (1966
Code § 1-7-2)
   B.   Terms Of Office: Elective officers shall enter upon their duties at
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in January next succeeding
their election. The Mayor and each Council member shall continue in office for
a term of four (4) years, and in each case until a successor is duly elected
and qualified, unless otherwise provided. (1966 Code § 1-7-3)
1-7-2: CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:
The City hereby adopts all the definitions, requirements, regulations,
prohibitions, penalties, provisions and sections of the Utah State Code 1 , as
amended. (Ord. 2017-09, 5-23-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA tit. 10, ch. 3.
1-7-3: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Eligibility And Qualifications: All appointive officers shall be
selected on the basis of their ability to competently fulfill their respective
offices. The City Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his/her
executive administrative qualifications. All officers, employees and agents
appointed by the City Manager or City Council may be nonelectors and
nonresidents.
   B.   City Manager:
      1.   Appointment: The City Council shall appoint a City Manager who shall
serve for a term not to exceed three (3) years. The term of employment may be
renewed at any time. The City Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the City
Council and may be removed with or without cause by a majority vote of the City
Council.
      2.   Appointments By Manager: The City Manager shall fill all appointive
positions not specified by law or this Code to be appointed by Mayor and City
Council, but shall inform the Mayor and City Council of all permanent
appointments. Neither the City Council nor any of its members shall direct or
request the appointment of any person to or his removal from office when
appointed by the City Manager, with the exception herein noted, or in any
manner take part in the appointment or removal of officers or employees in the
administrative service of the City.
      3.   Administration Through City Manager: Except for the purpose of
inquiry, the City Council and its members shall deal with the administration
service solely through the City Manager and neither the City Council nor any
member thereof shall give orders to any subordinates of the City Manager,
either publicly or privately. Any Council member violating the provisions of
this subsection shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title and shall cease to be a Council member, in addition to any
other penalty imposed by the court.
   C.   Recorder And Treasurer: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the
city council, shall appoint a qualified person to the office of city recorder
and a qualified person to the office of city treasurer.
   D.   Terms Of Office: The city recorder and city treasurer shall continue in
office until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   E.   Appointed Officers: The offices of police chief, community services
director, assistant city manager, public works director and city attorney shall
be appointed by the city manager, with the advice and consent of the city
council. (Ord. 2008-08, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-1-2008; amd. Ord. 2015-18, 11-24-
2015; Ord. 2019-23, 9-10-2019; Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
1-7-4: OATH AND BOND:
   A.   Oath: All officers of the city, whether elected or appointed, shall,
before they enter upon the duties of the respective office, take, subscribe and
file the constitutional oath of office. (1966 Code § 1-7-11)
   B.   Bond:
      1.   Before city officers may discharge the duties of their office, the
city shall have in place a bond or theft or crime insurance covering the city
officers in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 3. (Ord.
2019-23, 9-10-2019)
1-7-5: SALARIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-13, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
1-7-6: RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION:
All records, books, papers and documents belonging to any office of the city
shall be open to inspection by the public at all reasonable office hours. (1966
Code § 1-7-14)
1-7-7: FINANCIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Budget Appropriations Not Exceeded: No city officer shall make or incur
expenditures or encumbrances in excess of total appropriations for any
department in the budget as adopted or as subsequently amended. Any obligation
that is so contracted by any such officer shall be and become the obligation of
the officer himself and shall not be or become valid or enforceable against the
city. (1966 Code § 1-7-16)
   B.   Purchases; Approval Required: No purchase shall be made and no
indebtedness incurred by any officer or employee of the city without the
approval of the city manager or city council. (1966 Code § 1-7-17)
1-7-8: DELIVERY OF PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
Every officer of the city shall, within five (5) days after notification and
request, deliver to his successor in office all properties, books and effects
of every description in his possession belonging to the city or appertaining to
his office. (1966 Code § 1-7-15)
1-7-9: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Employment; Applicability: Each employee of Clearfield City shall hold
employment without limitation of time, being subject to discharge, suspension
of over two (2) days without pay, or involuntary transfer to a position with
less remuneration as set forth herein and in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated 10-3-1106, as amended. All other disciplinary actions, including, but
not limited to, oral or written reprimands, and employees discharged or
involuntarily transferred to a position with less remuneration as a result of
layoff or reorganization, are outside the jurisdiction of the employee
discipline hearing officer and may not be the subject of an appeal. This
section shall not apply to any officer appointed by the mayor or city manager,
nor to any of the positions set forth in Utah Code Annotated 10-3-1105, as
amended.
   B.   Limitation: Nothing in this section may be construed to limit the
city's ability to define cause for an employee termination or reduction in
force.
   C.   Employee Discipline Hearing Officer: The city manager shall appoint a
discipline hearing officer pursuant to the following requirements:
      1.   The discipline hearing officer shall be selected by a public hiring
process;
      2.   The discipline hearing officer shall be an independent contractor
with a term of at least one year; and
      3.   The city council shall ratify the city manager's appointment of the
discipline hearing officer.
   D.   Appeal Procedure:
      1.   All appeals must be initiated by filing a notice of appeal with the
city recorder within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the order from
which the appeal is taken.
      2.   The notice of appeal must include the following:
         a.   The specific reasons for the appeal, including, but not limited
to, the reasons why the appellant believes the city's decision was in error;
         b.   The written prediscipline notice received by the appellant;
         c.   The written decision or order which is being appealed by the
appellant;
         d.   The mailing address to be used for further communication with the
appellant; and
         e.   The appellant's signature.
      3.   An appellant's failure to timely submit a notice of appeal in full
and complete compliance with this section shall result in a forfeiture of all
appeal rights of the appellant.
      4.   No later than five (5) calendar days following the filing of the
notice of appeal, the discipline hearing officer shall:
         a.   Schedule a hearing at the discipline hearing officer's sole
discretion, no sooner than thirty (30) calendar days and no later than forty
five (45) calendar days after the filing of the notice of appeal.
      5.   Provide the date, time and place of the hearing to:
         a.   The appellant;
         b.   The appellant's counsel, if any;
         c.   The city's legal counsel;
         d.   The human resource division;
         e.   The department head.
   E.   Disposition Of The Appeal: Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the city
recorder must mail or personally deliver a copy of the appeal to the department
head, city manager, human resource office, and city attorney's office.
   F.   Hearing; General Procedures:
      1.   The discipline hearing officer shall conduct the hearing in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated 10-3-1106(4)(a), as amended. At the
hearing, the appellant may:
         a.   Appear in person and be represented by counsel;
         b.   Have a hearing open to the public, if appellant so desires;
         c.   Confront the witnesses whose testimony is to be considered; and
         d.   Examine the evidence to be considered by the discipline hearing
officer.
      2.   The discipline hearing officer has no subpoena power.
      3.   The discipline hearing officer has no contempt power.
   G.   Evidence To Be Considered By The Employee Discipline Hearing Officer:
      1.   No later than twenty (20) calendar days before the date of the
appeal hearing set by the discipline hearing officer, the city shall provide to
the appellant and the discipline hearing officer a complete copy of the record
relied upon by the city for the disciplinary action, as well as a complete
witness list. This record shall include all documents the city relied on in its
discipline decision, including similarly situated employees within the
department with similar discipline under the current department head or chief.
      2.   No later than ten (10) calendar days before the date of the appeal
hearing, the appellant must submit all evidence (other than the record
submitted by the city) which the appellant wishes to rely upon, as well as a
complete witness list.
      3.   The discipline hearing officer shall not consider any evidence not
timely submitted as provided in this section, other than witness testimony. The
discipline hearing officer shall not hear the testimony of witnesses not
included on a timely submitted witness list as provided in this section, with
the exception of rebuttal witnesses.
   H.   Decisions And Burden Of Proof:
      1.   The discipline hearing officer shall review a decision using a
"substantial evidence" standard of review. "Substantial evidence" is that
quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is adequate to convince a
reasonable person to support a conclusion. If the discipline hearing officer
finds that there is "substantial evidence" to support the city's action, the
discipline hearing officer shall uphold the action. If the discipline hearing
officer finds that there is not "substantial evidence" to support the city's
action, the discipline hearing officer shall overturn the decision. If the
discipline hearing officer overturns the city's action, the discipline hearing
officer's decision shall provide that the city shall compensate the appellant
as required by state law.
      2.   The discipline hearing officer's decision shall be in writing, shall
adopt findings of fact and conclusions of law in support of the discipline
hearing officer's decision, and shall be certified to the city recorder within
fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the hearing.
         a.   The discipline hearing officer may extend the fifteen (15) day
period to a maximum of sixty (60) calendar days if the discipline hearing
officer has good cause and the consent of both the city and the employee.
      3.   The discipline hearing officer shall keep a record of the
proceedings.
      4.   The ruling by the discipline hearing officer shall be the final
administrative decision of the city.
   I.   Public Access:
      1.   The appellant may decide whether or not the public is allowed at the
hearing.
      2.   The discipline hearing officer may expel any person who is
disorderly during the hearing.
   J.   No Additional Rights Created: The process set forth in this chapter is
not intended and shall not be interpreted to create or establish any interest
or right in employment or employment benefits. The city hereby undertakes no
additional obligations beyond those set forth by state and federal law. (Ord.
2016-01, 1-12-2016)
1-7-10: MUNICIPAL ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to prevent improper influence,
avoid the appearance of impropriety, and prohibit elected and appointed
officials from receiving unjust financial gain from public service. It also
seeks to increase public confidence by assuring that governmental actions are
taken ethically.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
APPOINTED OFFICIAL: The city manager or similar nonelected chief executive
officer.
COMMISSION: The municipal ethics commission formed pursuant to subsection E of
this section.
ELECTED OFFICIALS: Includes only the members of the Clearfield City council and
its mayor.
   C.   Municipal Officers' And Employees' Ethics Act:
      1.   Elected and appointed officials of Clearfield City are required to
comply with the municipal officers' and employees' ethics act (title 10,
chapter 3, part 13 of the Utah code) as amended, which is incorporated herein
by reference.
      2.   Included in the municipal officers' and employees' ethics act is the
obligation of elected and appointed officials to:
         a.   Not disclose or improperly use private, controlled, or protected
information acquired by them by reason of their position or in the course of
their duties in order to further substantially their personal economic interest
or to secure special privileges or exemptions for the elected or appointed
official or others; and avoid the use of their office for personal benefit;
         b.   Not use or attempt to use their position to further substantially
their personal economic interest or secure special privileges for the elected
or appointed official or for others;
         c.   Not knowingly receive, accept, take, seek, or solicit, directly
or indirectly, for the elected or appointed official or for another, a gift of
substantial value or a substantial economic benefit tantamount to a gift that:
            (1)   Would tend improperly to influence a reasonable person in the
elected or appointed official's position to depart from the faithful and
impartial discharge of the person's public duty; or
            (2)   The elected or appointed official knows or that a reasonable
person in that position should know under the circumstances is primarily for
the purpose of rewarding the elected or appointed official for official action
taken.
         d.   The municipal officers' and employees' ethics act also requires
public disclosures and filings in certain circumstances as described in the
act, including:
            (1)   Where an elected or appointed official receives or agrees to
receive compensation for assisting any person or business entity in any
transaction involving Clearfield City;
            (2)   Where an elected or appointed official is an officer,
director, agent, or employee or the owner of a substantial interest in any
business entity which is subject to regulation by Clearfield City;
            (3)   Where the elected or appointed official is an officer,
director, agent, employee, or owner of a substantial interest in any business
entity which does or anticipates doing business with Clearfield City; and
            (4)   Where an elected or appointed official has a personal
interest or investment which creates a conflict between the elected or
appointed official's personal interests and the elected or appointed official's
public duties.
   D.   City Attorney Advisory Opinions:
      1.   Elected and appointed officials of Clearfield City may request of
the city attorney an advisory opinion concerning the application of the
municipal officers' and employees' ethics act. The city attorney shall accept
and process these advisory opinion requests. As soon as practicable, but not
later than thirty (30) days after the city attorney receives a request for an
advisory opinion, the city attorney shall render a written opinion to the
mayor, city council, and to the city manager. All advisory opinions shall be
available for public review, but may be in such form and with such deletions as
may be necessary to prevent the disclosure of the identity of the persons
involved or to protect personal privacy interests.
      2.   An advisory opinion rendered by the city attorney, until amended or
revoked by the city attorney, shall be a defense in any action brought by a
complainant against the elected or appointed official and shall be binding on
the city in any subsequent proceedings concerning the person who requested the
opinion and who acted in good faith upon it, unless material facts were omitted
or misstated by the person requesting the opinion.
   E.   Municipal Ethics Commission:
      1.   Clearfield City establishes a municipal ethics commission pursuant
to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-1311 and 11-49-103. The commission is a
three (3) person commission as provided for in an interlocal agreement between
Clearfield City and other participating municipalities. Upon receiving a
complaint the membership of the commission shall be determined by random
selection from the pool of eligible participating municipalities.
      2.   The office of the city attorney shall provide the commission such
administrative or other support, as requested by the commission.
   F.   Filing Of Ethics Complaints With Commission:
      1.   A complaint may only be filed with the commission under the
following conditions:
         a.   The complaint must be against an elected or appointed official of
Clearfield City who is currently serving in their elected or appointed position
and allege a violation of the municipal officers' and employees' ethics act;
         b.   The complaint must be filed with the city recorder of Clearfield
City on behalf of the commission;
         c.   The complaint must be made by either:
            (1)   Two (2) or more registered voters who reside within the
boundaries of Clearfield City; or
            (2)   Two (2) or more registered voters who pay a fee or tax to
Clearfield City; or
            (3)   One or more registered voters who reside within the
boundaries of Clearfield City plus one or more registered voters who pay a fee
or tax to Clearfield City;
         d.   The complaint must be based upon direct evidence or sworn
statements by one or more people with actual knowledge of the facts and
circumstances supporting the alleged ethics violation;
         e.   The complaint may not be filed during the sixty (60) calendar
days immediately before a municipal primary election, if the accused elected or
appointed official is a candidate in the primary election;
         f.   The complaint may not be filed during the sixty (60) calendar
days immediately before a municipal general election in which the accused
elected or appointed official is a candidate, unless the accused elected or
appointed official is unopposed in the election;
         g.   The complaint must be in writing and contain:
            (1)   The name and position of the elected or appointed official
alleged to be in violation;
            (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of each individual
who is filing the complaint;
            (3)   A description of each alleged violation of the municipal
officers' and employees' ethics act, including a reference to the section of
the act alleged to have been violated;
            (4)   With reasonable specificity, evidence supporting each
allegation, which shall be provided by copies of official records, documentary
evidence, or affidavits that include the required information;
            (5)   A list of witnesses that a complainant wishes to have called
or interviewed, including for each witness: the name, address, and, if
available, one or more telephone numbers of the witness; a brief summary of the
testimony to be provided by the witness; a specific description of any
documents or evidence a complainant desires the witness to produce;
            (6)   A statement that each complainant:
               (A)   Has reviewed the allegations contained in the complaint
and the sworn statements and documents attached to the complaint;
               (B)   Believes that the complaint is submitted in good faith and
not for any improper purpose such as harassing the named elected or appointed
official, causing unwarranted harm to the accused elected or appointed
official's reputation, or causing unnecessary expenditure of public funds; and
               (C)   Believes the allegations contained in the complaint to be
true and accurate.
            (7)   A statement with the signature of each complainant.
      2.   Upon receipt of any ethics complaint, the city recorder shall
immediately refer the complaint to the commission. The city recorder shall not
notify or inform any other person of the filing of the complaint.
      3.   A person filing a complaint under this chapter is not entitled to
reimbursement for attorney fees or costs incurred, regardless of the outcome of
the proceedings.
   G.   Privacy:
      1.   Once an ethics complaint has been filed with the city recorder,
neither the city recorder, the commission, nor any city employee may disclose
the existence of the complaint, any response to the complaint, or any
information concerning the alleged ethics violation that is the subject of the
complaint, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
      2.   Nothing in the restrictions above may be construed to hinder or
prevent a person or the city attorney of Clearfield from disclosing the facts
or allegations about potential criminal violations to a law enforcement
authority.
      3.   Nothing in this section may be construed to hinder or prevent the
named elected or appointed official from preparing a defense to a complaint,
including contacting witnesses or taking other actions in preparation for
review by the commission.
      4.   Nothing in this section may be construed to hinder or prevent any
person from disclosing public records.
      5.   If any employee or official of the city publicly discloses any
private information, appropriate disciplinary action may be taken against such
individual.
      6.   If a complainant publicly discloses any private records or
information obtained from private records, the commission may summarily dismiss
the complaint without prejudice.
      7.   All records, that are not public records, received by or generated
by or for the commission are private and not subject to disclosure or release,
except for the commission's summary findings and recommendation for the city
council or any document that is classified as public in accordance with title
11, chapter 49 of the Utah code.
   H.   Initial Review Of Complaint:
      1.   Within ten (10) business days after receipt of an ethics complaint,
the commission shall examine the complaint to determine if it is in compliance
with the filing requirements of this chapter.
      2.   If the commission determines that the complaint does not comply with
the filing requirements of this chapter, the commission shall return the
complaint to the first complainant named on the complaint with a statement
detailing the reason(s) for noncompliance. At the same time, the commission
shall notify the city manager, mayor, city council, and the city attorney that
a complaint filed against an unidentified elected or appointed official has
been returned for noncompliance with this chapter and the fact that a complaint
was filed and returned shall be kept confidential until the commission submits
its annual summary report to the city council and to the mayor. If a complaint
is returned by the commission, the complainants may file another complaint if
the new complaint independently meets the filing requirements of this chapter.
      3.   If the commission determines that the complaint complies with the
filing requirements of this chapter, the commission shall:
         a.   Accept the complaint;
         b.   Promptly forward the complaint to the elected or appointed
official who is named in the complaint, together with directions for providing
a response to the commission;
         c.   If appropriate, request assistance from the office of the city
attorney; and
         d.   Notify the complainants, the named elected or appointed official,
the city recorder, and the employees in the office of the city attorney of the
privacy requirements of this chapter.
      4.   At its discretion, the commission may determine whether the subject
of the complaint should be investigated by a law enforcement agency.
      5.   If the commission learns that the subject of the complaint is under
criminal investigation, the commission may suspend its review of the complaint
pending the resolution of the criminal investigation.
      6.   The named elected or appointed official shall have the right to
present an answer to the complaint. The answer may contain statements,
arguments, and evidence. The answer must be filed within ten (10) business days
from the date the complaint was forwarded to and received by the elected or
appointed official.
      7.   The commission shall dismiss an ethics complaint if:
         a.   The named elected or appointed official resigns or is removed
from office with Clearfield City;
         b.   The named elected or appointed official is charged with a
criminal violation of the municipal officers' and employees' ethics act where
the facts and allegations presented in the ethics complaint assert
substantially similar facts and allegations as those asserted in the criminal
charges; or
         c.   The allegations in the complaint, if assumed to be true, do not
state a violation of the municipal officers' and employees' ethics act.
   I.   Consideration Of Complaint After Acceptance:
      1.   After acceptance of a complaint, the commission has the discretion
to:
         a.   Conduct a confidential, independent administrative investigation
of the complaint;
         b.   Refer the matter to an independent noncriminal investigator for
fact finding and investigation and consider the confidential report of the
investigator;
         c.   Conduct a hearing in accordance with subsection I2 of this
section; or
         d.   Any combination of the above.
      2.   If the commission uses a hearing to review the complaint, the
commission shall:
         a.   Assure that the hearing includes opening arguments, presentation
of evidence, witnesses and rebuttal, consideration of motions, and closing
arguments;
         b.   Close the hearing to the public;
         c.   Allow the complainants and the named elected or appointed
official to retain legal representation, at their discretion; and
         d.   Provide administrative subpoenas pursuant to its subpoena powers.
      3.   For any hearing the commission must provide a notice to the first
named complainant and the named elected or appointed official at least five (5)
business days prior to the hearing.
      4.   The commission shall determine whether the subject matter of the
complaint was previously the subject of a filing, public disclosure, or a city
attorney ethics advisory opinion. The commission shall take into consideration
efforts by the named elected or appointed official to seek legal direction
regarding the subject matter of the complaint and any good faith efforts by the
named elected or appointed official in response to legal advice received.
      5.   The commission shall ensure that a record of any commission meeting
or hearing is made, which shall include:
         a.   Audio recordings, if any;
         b.   Official summaries or minutes taken during the meeting or
hearing;
         c.   Copies of all documents or other items admitted into evidence or
considered by the commission;
         d.   Copies of a document or written order or ruling issued by the
commission; and
         e.   Any other information the commission deems relevant to the
findings and recommendation.
   J.   Contempt Powers:
      1.   The commission may hold a person in contempt if the person:
         a.   Refuses to answer a question, without legal justification, after
being directed by the commission to answer; or
         b.   Fails to comply with a subpoena issued by the commission.
      2.   Upon finding a person in contempt, the commission shall report the
person to the second district court and request a warrant of attachment or
order to show cause, as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 78B-6-313.
   K.   Request By Elected Or Appointed Official For Legal Representation:
      1.   The named elected or appointed official may request that the city
provide a legal defense if the complaint arises from an act or omission during
the performance of official duties, within the scope of employment, or under
the color of authority.
      2.   The city attorney may arrange for such legal defense, where
appropriate.
   L.   Determination By Commission:
      1.   After review of the complaint, the commission shall determine
whether there is clear and convincing evidence supporting a violation of the
municipal officers' and employees' act by the named elected or appointed
official. If there are multiple alleged violations the commission shall
separately determine whether clear and convincing evidence supports each
violation. The determination shall be by majority vote of the commission.
      2.   If the commission determines that no allegations in the complaint
were proved, the commission shall:
         a.   Issue an order that the complaint is dismissed because no
allegations in the complaint were found to have been proven;
         b.   Provide notice of the determination of an unidentified elected or
appointed official at a regular public meeting of the city council; and
         c.   Provide written notice of the determination to the named elected
or appointed official and the first named complainant on the complaint.
      3.   If the commission determines that one or more of the allegations in
the complaint were proved, the commission shall:
         a.   Prepare written summary findings and a recommendation for the
city council:
            (1)   Listing the name of each complainant and the name of the
subject elected or appointed official;
            (2)   For each allegation that was proven:
               (A)   Provide the reference to the municipal officers' and
employees' act;
               (B)   Summarize the evidence supporting a violation by clear and
convincing evidence;
               (C)   Make factual findings; and
            (3)   Recommend appropriate action to the city council.
         b.   Notify the named elected or appointed official and the first
complainant on the complaint of the written summary findings and recommendation
for the city council; and
         c.   Orally report the summary findings and recommendation to the city
council in a regular meeting of the city council.
      4.   If the commission finds a violation of the municipal officers' and
employees' ethics act, the commission may recommend to the city council any
appropriate action or remedy, including, but not limited to, censor, reprimand,
additional ethics training, or removal from office. The commission's
recommendation may depend on the severity of the violation, the elected or
appointed official's intent, any history or pattern of abuse by the named
elected or appointed official, and any economic or other benefit received by
the named elected or appointed official.
   M.   Action By City Council:
      1.   Upon receipt of any finding and recommendation by the commission,
the city council shall review the recommendation and take action at its
discretion.
      2.   The elected or appointed official referred for a violation may not
participate in the council's deliberation or cast a vote as the council decides
whether to take action and which action to take.
   N.   Knowingly Filing Of False Complaint: Any person who files a complaint
against an elected or appointed official pursuant to this chapter, knowing that
such complaint is frivolous, malicious, false, or otherwise without merit,
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
   O.   Annual Commission Report:
      1.   If there has been any activity by the commission during the previous
years the commission shall prepare, on an annual basis, a summary report that
contains:
         a.   A general description of the activities of the commission during
the past year;
         b.   The number of ethics complaints filed with the commission;
         c.   The number of ethics complaints dismissed; and
         d.   An executive summary of each complaint where the commission found
a violation of the municipal officers' and employees' ethics act.
      2.   The annual report of the commission shall be filed with the mayor,
city council, and with the city manager and shall be a public record. (Ord.
2013-08, 10-8-2013)
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Creation Of Office
1-7A-2: Powers And Duties
1-7A-3: Acting City Manager
1-7A-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of city manager. (1966 Code § 1-10-1)
1-7A-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. He
shall be responsible to the city council for the administration of all city
affairs placed in his charge. He shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Appoint Or Suspend Officers And Employees: He shall appoint and when he
deems it necessary, suspend or remove all city employees and appointive
administrative officers, except as otherwise provided by law. He may authorize
any administrative officer who is subject to his direction and supervision to
exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer’s
department, office or agency.
   B.   Direct And Supervise Administration: He shall direct and supervise the
administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the city, except as
otherwise provided by law.
   C.   Attendance At Meetings: He shall attend all city council meetings and
shall have the right to take part in discussion but may not vote.
   D.   Enforcement Of Laws: He shall see that all laws, provisions and acts of
the city council, subject to enforcement by him or by officers subject to his
direction and supervision, are faithfully executed.
   E.   Chief Financial Officer: He shall designate a Chief Financial Officer
to assist in performing those duties related to planning, directing,
organizing, and controlling the collection, investment, and disbursement of
city funds in accordance with all local, state, and federal laws and
regulations.
   F.   Budget And Improvement Programs: He shall prepare and submit the annual
budget and capital improvements program to the city council.
   G.   Public Report: He shall submit to the city council and make available
to the public a report on the administrative activities of the city at least
once a year.
   H.   Contracts: The city manager is authorized to approve and execute
contracts (including change orders and extensions) on behalf of the city in
accordance with the provisions of the city’s procurement ordinance.
   I.   Other Required Reports: He shall make such other reports as the city
council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices and
agencies subject to his direction and supervision.
   J.   Financial Advice: He shall keep the city council fully advised as to
the financial condition and future needs of the city and make such
recommendations to the city council as he may deem necessary, expedient or
beneficial to the welfare of the city.
   K.   Other Duties Specified: He shall perform such other duties as specified
in this code, added to this code or required by the city council. (1966 Code §
1-10-2; amd. Ord. 2012-14, 12-11-2012; Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
1-7A-3: ACTING CITY MANAGER:
By letter filed with the city recorder, the city manager shall designate,
subject to the approval of the city council, a qualified city administrative
officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of city manager during
his temporary absence or disability. During such absence or disability, the
city council may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another
officer of the city to serve until the city manager shall return or his
disability shall cease. (1966 Code § 1-10-3)
ARTICLE B. CITY RECORDER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Records Maintenance
1-7B-2: Countersign Contracts
1-7B-3: Auditor, Ex Officio
1-7B-4: Financial Duties And Responsibilities
1-7B-5: Other Required Duties
1-7B-6: Deputy Recorder And Clerks
1-7B-1: RECORDS MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Duty To Keep: The City Recorder shall keep his office at the place of
meeting of the City Council or at some other place convenient thereto as the
City Council shall direct. He shall keep the Corporate Seal and all papers and
records of the City and shall keep a record of the proceedings of the City
Council, whose meetings it shall be his duty to attend. Copies of all papers
filed in his office and transcripts from all records of the City Council,
certified by him under the Corporate Seal shall be evidence in all courts as if
the originals thereof were produced. (1966 Code § 1-11-1)
   B.   Recording Ordinances 1 ; Elected And Appointed Officials: The City
Recorder shall record all ordinances passed by the City Council in a book kept
for that purpose, together with affidavits of publication by the publisher or
his agent, if such ordinance was published, or if posted, with the certificate
of due posting thereof. Said book or a certified copy of the ordinances,
affidavit of publication or posting, under the Seal of the City shall be
received as evidence in all courts and places without further proof. He shall
also keep in a book provided for that purpose, the names of persons elected or
appointed to any office within the City, together with the dates on which they
entered upon the duties of their respective offices and the date of their
resignation or removal therefrom. (1966 Code § 1-11-11)
   C.   Fees For Copies And Certifications: The City Recorder shall charge a
fee for making copies of and certifying any of the official records of his
office and such fee shall be paid in advance prior to delivery of any such copy
by the person requesting such services. A schedule of fees shall be promulgated
by the City Recorder by and with the consent and approval of the City Manager.
(1966 Code § 1-11-5)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-3-713.
1-7B-2: COUNTERSIGN CONTRACTS 1 :
The City Recorder shall countersign all contracts made on behalf of the City
and every contract made on behalf of the City or to which the City is a party
shall be void unless signed by the City Recorder. He shall maintain a record of
all contracts properly indexed, which record shall be open to the inspection of
all interested persons. (1966 Code § 1-11-3)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-6-138.
1-7B-3: AUDITOR, EX OFFICIO 1 :
The City Recorder shall be the ex officio auditor of the City. (1966 Code § 1-
11-6)
 
Notes
1 2. U.C.A. § 10-3-916.
1-7B-4: FINANCIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Accounts And Payment Of Claims 1 : The City Recorder shall keep
accounts with all receiving and disbursing officers of the City; shall audit
all claims and demands against the City before they are allowed by the City
Council and shall prepare checks in payment thereof to be drawn on the
appropriate bank accounts of the City. He shall verify on the voucher copy of
said check or other supporting record that he has audited said claim and found
it to be true and correct, and that said claim has been approved by the City
Council and shall state the date of such approval. (1966 Code § 1-11-2; amd.
2000 Code)
   B.   Notice Audit Complete; Available For Inspection 2 : Within ten (10)
days following the receipt of the audit report furnished by the independent
auditor, the City Recorder shall prepare and publish at least twice in a
newspaper of general circulation published within the County, a notice to the
public that the audit of the City has been completed and a copy thereof may be
inspected at the office of the City Recorder. If a newspaper of general
circulation is not published within the County, the notice requested by this
subsection may be posted in three (3) public places. (1966 Code § 1-11-10; amd.
2000 Code)
   C.   Annual Tax Levy Certification 3 : The City Recorder shall certify the
ordinance or resolution making the levy to the County Auditor before June 15 of
each year. (1966 Code § 1-11-12; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Annual Financial Reports; Independent Audit Reports 4 : Within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the close of each fiscal year, the City
Recorder shall present to the City Council an annual financial report prepared
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, as prescribed in
the Uniform Accounting Manual for Utah Cities. This requirement may be
satisfied by presentation of the audit report furnished by the independent
auditor, if the financial statements included are appropriately prepared and
reviewed with the City Council. Notwithstanding the acceptability of the audit
report furnished by the independent auditor in substitution for financial
statements prepared by an officer of the City, the City Council has the
responsibility for those financial statements. The independent auditor has the
responsibility of reporting whether the City Council's financial statements are
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Copies of
the annual financial report or the audit report furnished by the independent
auditor shall be filed with the State Auditor and shall be filed as a public
document in the office of the City Recorder. (1966 Code § 1-11-9; amd. 2000
Code)
 
Notes
1 3. U.C.A. § 10-6-139.
2 4. U.C.A. § 10-6-152.
3 5. U.C.A. § 10-6-134.
4 1. U.C.A. § 10-6-150.
1-7B-5: OTHER REQUIRED DUTIES:
The City Recorder shall perform such other duties as required by ordinance,
this Code or State law. (1966 Code § 1-11-13)
1-7B-6: DEPUTY RECORDER AND CLERKS:
There may be appointed by the City Manager, subject to confirmation by the
Mayor and City Council, a deputy recorder and clerks for such office as may be
deemed necessary to fully perform the functions of said office. (1966 Code § 1-
11-4)
ARTICLE C. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Duties Generally
1-7C-2: Payments And Warrants
1-7C-3: Special Assessments
1-7C-4: Misuse Of Funds
1-7C-1: DUTIES GENERALLY:
   A.   Receive Money; Keep Accounts 1 : The City Treasurer shall be custodian
of all money, bonds or other securities belonging to the City. He shall receive
all money payable to the City, including all taxes, licenses and fines, and
keep an accurate detailed account thereof. He shall collect all special taxes
and assessments as provided by law and ordinance. He shall make a settlement
with the City Recorder as the City Council may direct at the end of every month
and turn over all warrants, interest coupons, bonds or other evidence of
indebtedness of the City which may have been redeemed by him during the month,
taking the receipts of the City Recorder therefor, and all such warrants,
orders or other evidence of indebtedness shall be canceled by him and have
written or stamped thereon the date of their payment or redemption. (1966 Code
§ 1-12-1)
   B.   Financial Reports: The City Treasurer shall report to the City at such
times as may be prescribed by law giving a full and detailed account of all
receipts and expenditures since his last report and the condition of the
Treasury. He shall also keep a registry of all warrants redeemed and paid
during the year, describing such warrants, their date, amount, number, the fund
from which paid and the person to whom paid, specifying also the time of
payment. All such warrants shall be examined by the City Council at the time of
making such a report. (1966 Code § 1-12-7)
   C.   Other Required Duties: The City Treasurer shall perform such other
duties as required by ordinance, this Code or State law. (1966 Code § 1-12-9)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-6-141.
1-7C-2: PAYMENTS AND WARRANTS:
   A.   Lawful Warrants: He shall pay money out only upon lawful warrants,
except that bonds and interest coupons when due may be paid upon presentation,
or in case the same are payable at some other place, the money for their
redemption shall be sent to the place where they are payable in time to meet
such payment when due. (1966 Code § 1-12-2)
   B.   Receipts 1 : The City Treasurer shall give or cause to be given to
every person paying money to the City Treasury a receipt or other evidence of
payment therefor, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid;
shall file the duplicate of such receipt or other evidence of payment in the
office of the City Recorder. (1966 Code § 1-12-3)
   C.   Signing Checks 2 : The City Treasurer or such other person as the City
Council may by resolution designate, shall sign all checks prepared by the City
Recorder. Prior to affixing said signatures, the City Treasurer or such other
person shall determine that sufficient funds are on deposit in the appropriate
bank account of the City to honor such check. The City Treasurer shall make
provision for payment of all warrants issued before signing any subsequently
issued checks. (1966 Code § 1-12-4)
   D.   Order Of Payment 3 : The City Treasurer shall pay all warrants in the
order in which presented and as money becomes available for payment thereof in
the appropriate funds of the City. The City Treasurer shall note upon the back
of each warrant presented to him the date of presentation and the date of
payment. (1966 Code § 1-12-5)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-6-142.
2 2. U.C.A. § 10-6-143.
3 3. U.C.A. § 10-6-144.
1-7C-3: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS 1 :
All money received by the City Treasurer on any special assessment shall be
applied to the payment of the improvement for which the assessment was made.
Such money shall be used for the payment of interest and principal on bonds or
other indebtedness issued in settlement thereof and shall be used for no other
purpose, except as otherwise provided by law. (1966 Code § 1-12-6)
 
Notes
1 4. U.C.A. § 10-6-145.
1-7C-4: MISUSE OF FUNDS 1 :
The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the City separate and
distinct from his own money and shall promptly make deposit thereof in the
appropriate bank accounts of the City. Whenever it shall appear to the City
Council that the City Treasurer is making profit out of public money or is
using the same for any purpose not authorized by law, it shall suspend him from
office. Upon his conviction for such offense, his office shall become vacant.
(1966 Code § 1-12-8)
 
Notes
1 5. U.C.A. § 10-6-146.
ARTICLE D. CITY ATTORNEY 1
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Creation Of Office
1-7D-2: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-3-928.
1-7D-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of City Attorney. (1966 Code § 1-15-1)
1-7D-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Legal Advisor: The City Attorney shall act as the legal advisor of the
City in all matters pertaining to contracts with or by the City and on any
question of law arising out of any provision of this Code or otherwise. He
shall advise the City Manager and/or City Council on such legal questions as
may arise in relation to the business of the City and shall report, at any time
as the City Manager or City Council may direct, upon any matters in his hands,
which may be necessary for their information. (1966 Code § 1-15-2)
   B.   Represent City: It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to appear and
represent the City in all suits that may be brought in any court of record or
otherwise in which the City may be plaintiff or defendant or in any manner
interested, and to prosecute or defend such suit and protect the interests of
the City as the circumstances may require. (1966 Code § 1-15-3)
   C.   Prosecute Violations: The City Attorney shall prosecute violations of
City ordinances, and under State law, infractions and misdemeanors occurring
within the boundaries of the City and has the same powers in respect to
violations as are exercised by a county attorney or district attorney, except
that the City Attorney's authority to grant immunity shall be limited to
granting transactional immunity for violations of City ordinances, and under
State law, infractions and misdemeanors, occurring within the boundaries of the
City. The City Attorney shall represent the interest of the State or the City
in the appeal of any matter prosecuted in any trial court by the City Attorney.
(2000 Code)
ARTICLE E. DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Creation Of Office
1-7E-2: Powers And Duties
1-7E-3: Expenses Allowed; Benefits
1-7E-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of Director of Emergency Services. (1966
Code § 1-14-1; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7E-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Develop Defense And Plans: To develop civil defense and disaster plans
and organize the civil defense and disaster program of the City.
   B.   Enlist Services: To enlist the services of civic, business, labor,
veterans, professional and other citizens' groups to assist in the
accomplishment of the community civil defense program.
   C.   Coordinate And Promote Cooperation: To coordinate and promote
cooperation between the divisions, services and staff of the civil defense and
disaster organization of the City.
   D.   Recommend Procurement: To recommend to the City Manager the procurement
of personnel, materials, supplies, services and equipment as may be necessary
to further the civil defense program.
   E.   Control Center: To recommend to the City Manager some central, safe and
enclosed place, room or rooms which shall be known as the control center, and
which shall be used in time of imminent public danger as the center from which
the civil defense program shall be directed and coordinated. The Director shall
recommend an alternate control center for use in case the primary control
center is damaged, destroyed or otherwise unusable.
   F.   Fallout Shelters; Evacuation Routes: To designate and have marked with
the approval of the City Manager, community fallout shelters or highway
evacuation routes for use in connection with regional, County and State
disaster plans.
   G.   Representation: To represent the Civil Defense and Disaster
Organization of the City in all dealings with public or private agencies
pertaining to civil defense and disaster. (1966 Code § 1-14-2)
1-7E-3: EXPENSES ALLOWED; BENEFITS:
The Director of Emergency Services shall be entitled to reimbursement for
travel expenses incurred in the pursuit of his duties and such other expenses
as are allowed other City employees. He shall be entitled to participate in the
City- sponsored health insurance program on the same basis as other City
employees and shall receive such other fringe benefits as the City Council may
direct from time to time. (1966 Code § 1-14-3; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE F. CITY ENGINEER 1
SECTION:
1-7F-1: Creation Of Office
1-7F-2: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-3-917.
1-7F-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of City Engineer. (Ord. 81-12, 3-10-1981)
1-7F-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The City Engineer's office shall have those powers and duties as determined and
assigned by the City Manager and shall also have the right to use a consulting
engineer until the City hires an engineer. (Ord. 81-12, 3-10-1981; amd. 2000
Code)
ARTICLE G. BUILDING OFFICIAL
SECTION:
1-7G-1: Creation Of Office
1-7G-2: Powers And Duties
1-7G-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of building official. (Ord. 2008-08, 9-9-
2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
1-7G-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The building official shall, under the control and direction of the city
manager, administer and enforce the rules, regulations and ordinances of the
city as herein set forth relating to building codes, plumbing codes, electrical
codes, gas codes and mechanical codes. It shall be the duty of the building
official to inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings in the course of
construction or repair. He shall enforce all of the provisions of the above
stated codes and regulations, entering actions in the court when necessary, and
his failure to do so shall not legalize any violation of such provisions. The
building official shall not issue any permit unless the plans of and the
proposed erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration or use fully
conform to all regulations then in effect. (Ord. 2008-08, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-1-
2008)
ARTICLE H. ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7H-1: Creation Of Office
1-7H-2: Powers And Duties
1-7H-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of ordinance compliance officer. (Ord. 2008-
08, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
1-7H-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The ordinance compliance officer shall, under the control and direction of the
city manager, administer and enforce the rules, regulations and ordinances of
the city as herein set forth relating to parking, business licenses and
regulations, nuisances, garbage and refuse, fire hazards, artificial pools,
weeds, zoning regulations, subdivision regulations, and any other code that has
a criminal penalty except those under police regulations and those regulations
governing the building official and the fire marshal. (Ord. 2008-08, 9-9-2008,
eff. 10-1-2008)
CHAPTER 8
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Creation Of Department
1-8A-2: Chief Of Police
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-918.
1-8A-1: CREATION OF DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created a department to be known as the Clearfield City police
department. (1966 Code § 1-17-1)
1-8A-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Designated: The head of this department shall be the chief of police.
(1966 Code § 1-17-2; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Generally: The chief of police shall be responsible for the
direction and control of said department and all deputy police officers. It
shall be the duty of the chief of police to perform all functions and exercise
all powers conferred upon him by this code or by other competent authority. He
shall, with the aid of such deputies as may be necessary, suppress riots,
disturbances and breaches of the peace and take all necessary action to
apprehend and arrest all persons committing any criminal offense or who have
violated the penal laws of the state or other ordinance of the city. He shall
at all times, by himself or through his deputies, diligently and faithfully
discharge the duties of this office and enforce all regulations of the city
made and provided for the preservation of peace, good order and the protection
of lives, rights and property of all persons. (1966 Code § 1-17-3; amd. 2000
Code)
      2.   Service Of Process: The chief of police or his deputies, when called
upon or directed so to do by any court of competent jurisdiction, shall serve
all legal process, civil or criminal, and shall serve all warrants of arrest
and take into custody any person ordered arrested by the judge of the municipal
justice court or any other court of competent jurisdiction, and in the
administration of justice shall faithfully and promptly carry out and execute
any such lawful order. (1966 Code § 1-17-4; amd. 2000 Code)
      3.   Right Of Arrest: The chief of police and members of the police
department shall have power and authority, without process, to arrest and take
into custody any person who shall commit or threaten or attempt to commit in
the presence of any such officer, or within his view, any breach of the peace,
or any offense directly prohibited by the laws of this state, or by any
ordinance. (1966 Code § 1-17-5; amd. 2000 Code)
      4.   Register Of Arrests: The chief of police shall provide and cause to
be kept a register of arrests. Upon such register, there shall be entered a
statement showing the date of arrests, the name of the person arrested, the
name of the officer making the arrest and the offense charged. (1966 Code § 1-
17-6; amd. 2000 Code)
      5.   Report To City Manager: The chief of police shall from time to time
and upon request by the city manager, make a report to the city manager of the
affairs and conditions of his department, which report shall include a
statement on the conduct of his various deputies with relation to their
employment and the execution of their duties. (1966 Code § 1-17-7; amd. 2000
Code)
ARTICLE B. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Fire District Established
1-8B-1: FIRE DISTRICT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Clearfield City and West Point City have established the North Davis
fire district and as part of the establishment of the North Davis fire
district, the Clearfield City fire department shall transition all its duties
and responsibilities to the North Davis fire district. (Res. 2005R-18, 6-12-
2005)
   B.   The North Davis fire district is created for the purpose of providing
facilities and equipment for fire protection, emergency medical and ambulance
services and consolidated 911 and emergency dispatch services within the area
included within its boundaries, through facilities or systems acquired or
constructed for that purpose through construction, purchase, lease, contract,
gift, condemnation or any combination thereof.
   C.   There is hereby created as the governing authority of the district an
administrative control board under section 17A-2-1326, Utah Code Annotated,
1953, as amended. The terms and duties of the board will be established by
resolution. (Res. 2004R-25, 10-12-2004)
ARTICLE C. HEALTH DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Creation Of Department
1-8C-1: CREATION OF DEPARTMENT:
The City hereby joins with Davis County and the other participating towns and
cities of Davis County in the creation of a full-time City-County health
department in Davis County, State of Utah, which Department shall be known as
the Davis County Health Department. (1966 Code § 9-1-1)
ARTICLE D. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
ARTICLE E. MUNICIPAL JUSTICE COURT 1
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Creation
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 78-5-101 et seq.
1-8E-1: CREATION:
The City has created a Justice Court under the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated section 78-5-101 et seq., and the provisions of that code are
incorporated by this reference. (Ord. 79-6, 1979; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE F. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8F-1: Creation Of Department
1-8F-2: Public Works Director
1-8F-1: CREATION OF DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created the Public Works Department. (1966 Code § 1-19-1)
1-8F-2: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
The Public Works Director shall be responsible to the City Manager for the
supervision of all programs and activities relating to water, sewer, streets
and sidewalks. He shall be responsible for the maintenance of such and shall
supervise and oversee all construction, alteration and planning of facilities
for the improvement of these programs. All City employees in the construction,
alteration or maintenance of streets and sidewalks, water and sewer lines or
facilities, shall be responsible to the Public Works Director and he may
recommend to the City Manager such changes in personnel as he may deem
necessary. (Ord. 79-5, 1979; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE G. COMMUNITY SERVICES DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8G-1: Creation Of Department; Duties
1-8G-2: Community Services Director
1-8G-3: Other Departmental Positions
1-8G-1: CREATION OF DEPARTMENT; DUTIES:
There is hereby created the community services department. The community
services department shall:
   A.   Develop Programs: Develop recreational programs for the city based on
recommendations from the parks and recreation commission, the city council and
city manager in coordination with other programs sponsored in whole or in part
by the state, county, school boards or any other public entity, where these
programs will interrelate with city programs or include citizens and residents
of the city.
   B.   Manage Facilities And Equipment: Accomplish the management, scheduling,
use and operation of the city's park and recreation facilities and equipment as
defined below:
      1.   Park facilities, including baseball, softball, football, soccer and
other areas designated for group games, contests and activities under
sponsorship of the department; pavilions, picnic shelters, tables, benches,
barbecue stands and other equipment for group and family recreation; bleachers,
backstops, dugouts, lights, tennis courts, horseshoe pitching areas, outdoor
amphitheater, special turf areas and any other facilities considered as
permanent installation for direct support of a recreational activity.
      2.   Portable or semiportable equipment for the operation and support of
recreational activities, including bases, home plates, portable fences,
goalposts, goal nets, tennis nets, archery targets and other equipment actually
used as an integral part of the recreational activity.
   C.   Equipment Issuance And Maintenance: Determine requirements, budget for,
procure, distribute and issue personal equipment, within limits authorized by
the city council. Be responsible for maintenance, repair and replacement within
budgetary limits set by the city council.
   D.   Aquatic Center: Manage and operate the Clearfield Aquatic Center and
facilities. This includes the day to day management of the center for
recreational swimming and fitness; establishing and operating recreation
programs for all ages; maintenance and repair of facilities as necessary;
arranging for special parties and programs for groups.
   E.   Program And Activity Development: Develop, budget and manage other
recreation programs and facilities, including activities associated with
integrated community school programs, senior citizens' activities, and
activities for children and youth.
   F.   Facility Construction And Maintenance: Plan, develop, supervise and
oversee all construction, alterations, repair and maintenance of public parks,
park and recreation facilities, the city cemetery, and all other city owned
physical facilities.
   G.   Budget Requirements: Determine requirements and budget for the
planning, development, construction, repair and maintenance of public parks,
park facilities and recreation facilities. (Ord. 2014-11, 4-22-2014)
1-8G-2: COMMUNITY SERVICES DIRECTOR:
The position of community services director is hereby created to direct, manage
and operate the community services department and all activities of said
department as heretofore defined. Within the limits set by the city council and
city manager, the director shall hire, direct and supervise full time and part
time employees of the city assigned to the department. The community services
director shall meet with the parks and recreation commission to receive
recommendations on park maintenance, development and recreation programs. (Ord.
2014-11, 4-22-2014)
1-8G-3: OTHER DEPARTMENTAL POSITIONS:
The following positions may be established to assist with the administration of
the day to day responsibilities of the department:
   A.   Community Services Deputy Director: A community services deputy
director may assist the community services director in directing, managing and
operating the department and all activities of said department as heretofore
defined.
   B.   Recreation Manager: A recreation manager may be employed by the
community services director and shall work under his/her supervision to
accomplish the activities, objectives and purposes set forth above. The
recreation manager shall work in close cooperation with the parks and ball
fields manager, aquatic center manager, cemetery and open space manager, and
facilities manager to ensure adequate and proper coordination, planning,
repair, maintenance and construction and that the overall objectives of the
community services department are achieved.
   C.   Aquatic Center Manager: An aquatic center manager may be employed by
the community services director and shall work under his/her supervision to
accomplish the activities, objectives and purposes set forth above. The aquatic
center manager shall work in close cooperation with the parks and ball fields
manager, recreation manager, cemetery and open space manager, and facilities
manager to ensure adequate and proper coordination, planning, repair,
maintenance and construction and that the overall objectives of the community
services department are achieved.
   D.   Parks And Ball Fields Manager: A parks and ball fields manager may be
employed by the community services director and shall work under his/her
supervision to accomplish the activities, objectives and purposes set forth
above. The parks and ball fields manager shall work in close cooperation with
the aquatic center manager, recreation manager, cemetery and open space
manager, and facilities manager to ensure adequate and proper coordination,
planning, repair, maintenance and construction and that the overall objectives
of the community services department are achieved.
   E.   Cemetery And Open Space Manager: A cemetery and open space manager may
be employed by the community services director and shall work under his/her
supervision to accomplish the activities, objectives and purposes set forth
above. The cemetery and open space manager shall work in close cooperation with
the aquatic center manager, recreation manager, parks and ball fields manager,
and facilities manager to ensure adequate and proper coordination, planning,
repair, maintenance and construction and that the overall objectives of the
community services department are achieved.
   F.   Facilities Manager: A facilities manager may be employed by the
community services director and shall work under his/her supervision to
accomplish the activities, objectives and purposes set forth above. The
facilities manager shall work in close cooperation with the aquatic center
manager, recreation manager, parks and ball fields manager, and cemetery and
open space manager to ensure adequate and proper coordination, planning,
repair, maintenance and construction and that the overall objectives of the
community services department are achieved. (Ord. 2014-11, 4-22-2014)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Adoption Of State Code
1-9-1: ADOPTION OF STATE CODE:
All elections of city officers and other elections conducted within the city
shall be in accordance with the Utah election code, as set out in Utah Code
Annotated title 20A. Each candidate for elective office is required to pay a
filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) at the time of the filing of the
candidate's declaration of candidacy. (Ord. 03-04, 2-25-2003)
CHAPTER 10
GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Title
1-10-2: Purpose
1-10-3: Compliance With State Law
1-10-4: Definitions
1-10-5: Records Officer
1-10-6: Records Maintenance
1-10-7: City Archives
1-10-8: Public Access To Records
1-10-9: Public, Private, Controlled And Protected Records
1-10-10: Privacy Rights
1-10-11: Designation, Classification And Retention
1-10-12: Procedures For Records Request
1-10-13: Fees
1-10-14: Record Amendments
1-10-15: Appeals
1-10-16: Penalty
1-10-1: TITLE:
This code of the City of Clearfield, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2023-13, passed July 25, 2023, and resolution 2006R-01,
passed January 24, 2006. Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance
supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict
or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to ascertain
whether any particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or
repealed.
1-10-2: PURPOSE:
In enacting this chapter, it is the purpose and intent of the city council to
adopt an ordinance acknowledging and complying with the government records
access and management act as contained in chapter 2 of title 63G of Utah Code
Annotated, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the act), and specifically to
conform with section 63G-2-701 of the act which provides that the city may
adopt an ordinance or a policy relating to information practices of the city
and its agencies, including classification, designation, access, denials,
segregation, appeals, management, retention and amendment of records. (Ord.
2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-3: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
In enacting this chapter, the city council hereby adopts and incorporates by
reference the chapter 2 of title 63G of the Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
Any inconsistency or conflict between this chapter and the following referenced
state statutes shall be governed by the statute.
(Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, certain words and terms are defined as follows:
ACT: The government records access and management act, chapter 2 of title 63G
of Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
CITY: Clearfield City, Utah.
DATA: Individual entries (for example, birth date, address, etc.) in records.
DISPOSE: To destroy or render irretrievable or illegible, a record or the
information contained in it by any physical, electronic, or other means,
including unauthorized deletion or erasure of electronically recorded audio,
visual, nonwritten formats, data processing or other records.
NONPUBLIC RECORDS: Those records defined as private, controlled or protected
under the provisions of chapter 2, title 63G of the Utah Code annotated, as
amended. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-5: RECORDS OFFICER:
   A.   Appointed: There shall be appointed a records officer by the city
manager to work with the state archives in the care, maintenance, scheduling,
designation, classification, disposal ,and preservation of city records.
   B.   Designation By Each Division Of City: A person may be designated by
each division of the city to assist with and to work under the direction of the
records officer in implementing the policies and procedures set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-6: RECORDS MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Procedures Developed: Records maintenance procedures shall be developed
to ensure that due care is taken to maintain and preserve appropriate city
records safely and accurately over the long term. The records officer shall be
responsible for monitoring the application and use of technical processes in
the creation, duplication and disposal of city records. The records officer
shall monitor compliance with required standards of quality, permanence and
admissibility pertaining to the creation, use and maintenance of records.
   B.   Ownership Of Records: All city records shall remain the property of the
city unless federal or state legal authority provides otherwise. Property
rights to city records may not be permanently transferred from the city to any
private individual or entity, including those legally disposable, obsolete city
records of city archives or any agencies. This prohibition does not include the
providing of copies of city records otherwise produced for release or
distribution under this chapter.
   C.   Delivery Upon Expiration Of Term: Custodians of any city records shall,
at the expiration of their terms of office, appointment or employment, deliver
custody and control of all records kept or received by them to their
successors, supervisors or to the records officer.
   D.   Divisions Of City: All records which are in the possession of any city
division shall, upon termination of activities of such division, be transferred
to any successor division or to the city archives; provided, that such transfer
is consistent with the formal provisions of such termination. (Ord. 2006-16,
10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-7: CITY ARCHIVES:
There is created the city archives to be managed by the records officer. It is
the responsibility of the city archives to receive, store and preserve city
records and other materials and to provide reasonable access thereto as may be
calculated to maintain city records accurately and safely over a long term in
compliance with this chapter and the act. Policies and guidelines regarding the
nature of records and record series which are to be received and stored by city
archives shall be developed and promulgated by the city. Unless determined and
designated otherwise by the city council, the city archives shall be considered
the formal, official repository of city records; the central depository for the
reports, publications, productions in other media, rules, policies and
regulations of the city, where not otherwise determined by law; and, where
appropriate, historical artifacts. Each division shall be responsible for
assisting the city archives in the collection of such records, depository
materials and artifacts through methods promulgated by the records officer.
(Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-8: PUBLIC ACCESS TO RECORDS:
   A.   Authority: Members of the public shall have the right to see, review,
examine and take copies, in any format maintained by the city, of all city
governmental records defined as “public” under the provisions of the act, upon
the payment of the lawful fee and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
the act and policies and procedures developed hereunder.
   B.   No Obligation To Create Record: The city has no obligation to create a
record or record series in response to a request from a member of the public if
the record requested is not otherwise regularly maintained or kept.
   C.   Custodial Division: When a record is temporarily held by a custodial
city division pursuant to that custodial division’s statutory and ordinance
functions, such as records storage, investigation, litigation or audit, the
record shall not be considered a record of the custodial division for the
purposes of this chapter. The record shall be considered a record of the city
and any request for access to such records shall be directed to the city’s
records officer. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-9: PUBLIC, PRIVATE, CONTROLLED AND PROTECTED RECORDS:
   A.   Public Records: Public records shall be those city records as defined
in chapter 2 title 63G of Utah Code annotated, as amended Public records shall
be made available to any person. All city records are considered public unless
they are:
      1.   Expressly classified otherwise in accordance with policies and
procedures established by this chapter;
      2.   Are so classified by the act; or
      3.   Are made nonpublic by other applicable law.
   B.   Private Records: Private records shall be those city records classified
as “private”, in accordance with chapter 2 title 63G of Utah Code annotated, as
amended and defined in procedures established pursuant to the act.
   C.   Controlled Records: Controlled records shall be those city records
classified as “controlled”, in accordance with chapter 2 title 63G of Utah Code
Annotated, as amended and as classified and defined in procedures established
in the act.
   D.   Protected Records: Protected records shall be those city records
classified as “protected”, in accordance with chapter 2 title 63G of Utah Code
annotated, as amended and as classified and defined in procedures established
in the act. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-10: PRIVACY RIGHTS:
   A.   Scope; Authority: The city recognizes and upholds the personal right of
privacy retained by persons who may be the subject of governmental records. The
city also recognizes that the act and Utah case law establish a presumption
that governmental records will generally be considered open and public, with
certain exceptions as established by chapter 2 of title 63G of Utah Code
annotated, as amended. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-11: DESIGNATION, CLASSIFICATION AND RETENTION:
All city records and records series, of any format, shall be classified and
scheduled for retention according to the provisions of the act and this
chapter. Any records generated in the future shall also be so classified and
scheduled for retention. Records classification and scheduling for retention
shall be conducted under the supervision of the records officer. The city shall
establish a retention schedule for all city records and record series. The
initial retention schedule shall be on file in the office of the records
officer. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-12: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDS REQUEST:
   A.   Written Request: A person making a request for a record shall submit a
written request to the city containing the person’s name, mailing address,
email address, and daytime telephone number, and a description of the record
that identifies the record with reasonable specificity. Requesters of nonpublic
information shall adequately identify themselves and their status prior to
receiving access to nonpublic records.
   B.   Response: The city may respond to a request for a record by approving
the request and providing the records, denying the request or such other
appropriate response as may be established by chapter 2 title 63G of Utah Code
annotated, as amended.
   C.   Time Limits:
      1.   Specified: After receiving a request for a record, the city will
respond as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than 10 business days
after receiving a written request in accordance with chapter 2 of title 63G of
Utah Code annotated, as amended.
      2.   Extraordinary Circumstances: Extraordinary circumstances shall
justify the city’s failure to respond to a written request for a public record
within ten (10) business days and shall extend the time for response thereto to
that time reasonably necessary to respond to the request, as determined by the
city . Extraordinary circumstances shall be determined in accordance with
chapter 2 of title 63G of Utah Code annotated, as amended.
      3.   Estimate Of Time For Response: When a record request cannot be
responded to within ten (10) days, the city shall give the requester an
estimate of the time required to respond to the request.
   D.   Failure To Respond: The failure or inability of the city to respond to
a request for a record within the time frames set out herein or the city’s
denial of such request, shall give the requester the right to appeal as
provided in section
1-10-15  of this chapter.
   E.   Disposable Records:
      1.   Any city record which has been requested in accordance with this
chapter and the act, that is disposable by approved retention schedule, may not
be disposed of until the request is granted and fulfilled, or sixty (60) days
after all appeals are completed, pursuant to section
1-10-15  of this chapter.
      2.   No city record, disposable by approved retention schedule, which is
subject to pending litigation or audit shall be disposed of until the
litigation or audit has been completed or resolved. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006;
amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-13: FEES:
   A.   Authority; Exceptions: The city may charge a reasonable fee to cover
the city’s costs of search, retrieval, compiling, formatting, manipulating,
packaging, summarizing, or tailoring the record, and other direct
administrative costs to meet the person’s request in accordance with chapter 2
title 63G of Utah Code annotated, as amended. The city may fulfill a record
request without charge when it determines that:
      1.   Releasing the record primarily benefits the public rather than a
person;
      2.   The individual requesting the record is the subject of the record;
or
      3.    The requester’s legal rights are directly implicated by the
information in the record and the requester is impecunious.
   B.   Review Not Subject To Fee: The city may not charge a fee for reviewing
a record to determine whether it is subject to disclosure or for inspecting a
record. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-14: RECORD AMENDMENTS:
Government records held by the city may be amended or corrected as needed. An
individual may contest the accuracy or completeness of any public, private or
protected record concerning him or her by submitting a written request to the
city to amend the record. However, this section does not affect the right of
access to private or protected records. The request shall contain the
requester’s name, mailing address and daytime telephone number and a detailed
statement explaining why the city should amend the record. The city shall issue
a decision either approving or denying the request to amend no later than sixty
(60) days after receipt of the request. The city shall inform the requester in
writing of its decision. The requester may appeal the denial of the request to
amend a record pursuant to the provisions contained in section
1-10-15  of this chapter regarding appeals. This section does not apply to
records relating to title to real or personal property, medical records,
judicial case files or any other records that the city determines must be
maintained in their original form to protect the public interest and to
preserve the integrity of the record system. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd.
Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-15: APPEALS:
   A.   Request; Information Required: Any person aggrieved by the city’s
classification of a record or by the city’s response to a record request may
appeal the determination within thirty (30) days after notice of the city’s
action to the city manager by filing a written notice of appeal. The notice of
appeal shall contain the petitioner’s name, address, phone number, relief
sought and shall set forth in detail a statement of the facts, reasons and
legal authority relied upon in making the appeal.
   B.   Business Confidentiality: If the appeal involves a record that is
subject to business confidentiality or affects the privacy of an individual,
the city manager shall send a notice of the requester’s appeal to the affected
person. In the event the record involves business confidentiality the claimant
shall have seven (7) business days after notice is sent by the city manager to
submit further support for the claim of business confidentiality.
   C.   Determination By City: The city manager shall make a determination on
the appeal within ten (10) days after receipt of the appeal or within twelve
(12) days after the governmental entity sends the requester’s notice of appeal
to a person who submitted a claim of business confidentiality. The city manager
shall send written notice to all participants providing the city manager’s
determination on the appeal and the reasons therefor and shall include a
statement that the requester has the right to appeal the denial to either the
state records committee or district court.
   D.   State Records Committee Or District Court Review: If the city manager
affirms the denial, in whole or in part, the person may petition the state
records committee or petition for judicial review in district court in
accordance with chapter 2 of title 63G of Utah Code annotated, as amended.
(Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
1-10-16: PENALTY:
   A.   Criminal Prosecution: Any city employee who knowingly refuses to permit
access to records in accordance with the act and this chapter, who knowingly
permits access to nonpublic records, or who knowingly, without authorization or
legal authority, disposes of, alters or removes records or allows other persons
to do so in violation of the provisions of the act, this chapter or other law
or regulation may be subject to criminal prosecution and disciplinary action,
including termination.
   B.   Nonliability For Damages: In accordance with the act, neither the city
nor any of its employees shall be liable for damages resulting from the release
of a record where the requester presented evidence of authority to obtain the
record, even if it may be subsequently determined that the requester had no
such authority. (Ord. 2006-16, 10-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-12, 7-25-2023)
CHAPTER 11
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Title
1-11-2: Purpose
1-11-3: Authority
1-11-4: Definitions
1-11-5: Emergency Services Department
1-11-6: Succession In Elected And Appointed Offices
1-11-7: Declaration Of Emergency
1-11-8: Emergency Management Procedures
1-11-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be titled EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION OF OFFICE;
AUTHORITY AND DELEGATION. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
1-11-2: PURPOSE:
To provide direction for continuity in government by providing a procedure for
succession in offices where elected officials or other key personnel are
unavailable during the course of any major natural disaster or occurrence. This
Chapter is to provide a clear line of authority and succession assuming the
unavailability, temporarily or permanently, of elected and appointed officials
in order to ensure a lawful continuity of government and a prompt response to
an emergency situation. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993)
1-11-3: AUTHORITY:
The process provided for herein is authorized pursuant to the authority
provided local governments in regard to response and recovery from natural
disasters, Utah Code Annotated sections 63-5b-101, 63-5b-104, 63-5b-501, 63-5b-
503 and 63-5b-601, and various sections under Utah Code Annotated title 10,
providing for deputization, delegation of governmental authority, appointment
and filling of vacant elective offices. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993; amd. 2000 Code)
1-11-4: DEFINITIONS:
All other definitions found in Utah Code Annotated section 63-5b-102, as
amended, are incorporated herein as may be applicable. As used in this Chapter,
the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
Section:
ABSENT: Not physically present or not able to be communicated with via
telephone, radio or telecommunications for twelve (12) hours.
INTERIM SUCCESSION: Intended to mean the temporary replacement or filling of
offices within Clearfield City government to meet the demands of an emergency
response as a result of natural phenomenon or disaster, and the period shall
not extend beyond that required to formally provide for the filling of a
vacancy by current statutory or constitutional provisions, or until the officer
or emergency successor earlier in the order of succession is available and
which shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
NATURAL PHENOMENON OR DISASTER: Would include wide spread damage, social
disruption, injury, loss of life or property resulting from attack,
technological hazard, earthquake, tornado, storm, flood, landslide, avalanche,
forest or range fire, drought, epidemic or other catastrophic event or internal
disturbance including riot, strike, disruptive terrorism or prison break.
UNAVAILABLE: Absent from the place of government during a disaster or natural
phenomenon which seriously disrupts normal governmental operation, or unable
because of physical, mental, or legal reasons, or otherwise unavailable to
exercise the power and duties of an office during a disaster, whether or not
the absence or inability would give rise to a vacancy of the office under
existing constitutional or statutory provisions. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993)
1-11-5: EMERGENCY SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Creation Of Department: There is hereby created a department to be
known as the Emergency Services Department.
   B.   Emergency Services Director: There is hereby created the office of
Emergency Services Director.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The Director of Emergency Services shall be
responsible for the direction and control of said Department, including all
deputies and employees of the Department. The Emergency Services Director will
report directly to the City Manager. It shall be the duty of the Director of
Emergency Services to develop, implement and carry out an emergency operations
plan for times of disaster or extreme emergency situations. The Director will
coordinate and manage all such situations which are declared a local emergency
or disaster. The Director will be responsible for overseeing the communications
needs of the City, including public safety dispatch, computer information
systems, volunteer amateur radio communications, as well as any form of
telecommunication that may be implemented to assist the City. The Director of
Emergency Services shall be a public safety officer. If the holder of the
office of Director of Emergency Services or any of the deputies within the
Department of Emergency Services actively hold peace officer or firefighter
certifications, they have the powers and authorities given a peace officer or
firefighter of the City as found in Articles A and B of Chapter 8 of this
Title. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993)
1-11-6: SUCCESSION IN ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICES:
   A.   Scope: It is the specific direction of the Mayor and City Council of
the City that all elective offices and executive offices of City government
provide for interim succession if the office holder or official is
"unavailable", as defined by Section
11-1-4 of this Chapter.
   B.   Establishment Of Interim Successors: The office of the Mayor, City
Manager and each department within the City government structure as provided
for by the Clearfield City Corporation Personnel Policy Manual, is instructed
to provide a list of at least three (3) interim successors for each position in
the order of succession to the Director of Emergency Services and the City
Manager within ten (10) days after the enactment of the Ordinance codified
herein, and by June 1 of each year thereafter. City Council members shall
assume the authority of unavailable or absent Council members under disaster or
natural phenomenon conditions.
   C.   Council Members Designated Unavailable: If all City Council members
designated in line of succession to the Mayor are not available, then any City
Council member to which communication is made may act in the capacity as
interim successor to the office of Mayor.
   D.   Quorum Of City Council: Under circumstances constituting a natural
disaster or phenomenon, a quorum needed to enact City Council power may be
accomplished by any number of City Council members who are available and
present.
   E.   Elected Officials Absent: If all elected officials are absent during
time of disaster, then the City Manager or his line of succession may assume
the role of Interim Mayor and City Council.
   F.   Oath Of Office: All future designees, if not currently sworn to office,
should be required to take an oath of office at the time of their designation,
which would be contingent upon the unavailability of the office holder as
defined, in order that their acts would be official acts of the City Council or
respective positions. The City Recorder is directed to effectuate this
procedure.
   G.   Powers And Duties: Emergency interim successors shall exercise the
powers and duties of the office until the vacancy is filled in accordance with
constitutional provisions or by statute or ordinance, or the officer, deputy or
interim officer to that position in higher order of succession becomes
available to exercise the powers and duties of the office.
   H.   Change In Location Of Government Seat: The City Manager or Mayor, upon
a determination that the previously established centers of government function
are inoperable or incapable as functioning as the seat of government for the
City during the time of emergency, may designate another location, outside of
the City if necessary, to serve as the seat of government for the City. (Ord.
93-4, 8-10-1993)
1-11-7: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Proclamation: A local emergency may be declared by proclamation of the
City Council in an emergency session and signed by the Mayor or Interim Mayor.
In the absence of the City Council, the Mayor or Interim Mayor may so declare
an emergency, sign the proclamation, and sign all documents declaring the local
emergency, later to be ratified by the City Council or Interim City Council.
Nothing in this Section is intended to preclude the declaration of emergency
powers under the approved City emergency plan as long as those actions are
consistent with this Chapter.
   B.   Filing Of Proclamation: The proclamation declaring the emergency shall
be filed with the City Recorder and shall state the nature of the emergency,
the areas threatened and various conditions which caused the emergency, and the
initial period of the emergency.
   C.   Force And Effect: All rules, orders and regulations promulgated
subsequent to the declaration of emergency shall have full force and effect of
law during the emergency period immediately upon filing in the office of the
City Recorder or upon compliance of the requirements of the City emergency
plan.
   D.   Authority For Assistance: The declaration of emergency herein may
authorize the request for assistance from Davis County, the Utah State Division
of Comprehensive Emergency Management, the Federal Emergency Management Agency
or other appropriate agencies or groups. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993)
   E.   Procurement Authority: Upon the declaration of the emergency, the
Purchasing Agent or his interim successor is authorized to make emergency
procurement pursuant to the requirements of the ordinances of the City.
Appropriate documentation and records shall be maintained to meet the
requirements of the office of Comprehensive Emergency Management and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   F.   Limitation: The emergency authority authorized pursuant to the
declaration provided herein and State law shall be without limitation, except
as established by the declaration, and shall be coexistent with emergency
powers and authorities established by State law. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993; amd.
2000 Code)
   G.   Period Of Emergency: All rules, orders, regulations, ordinances and
resolutions promulgated subsequent to the declaration shall have the full force
and effect of law during the emergency period, including all actions of interim
successors lawfully holding office pursuant to the policy and ordinances of the
City. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993)
1-11-8: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Plan Into Effect: Upon the declaration of an emergency or the
occurrence of a natural act or disaster, as defined herein, the emergency
operations plan shall be put into immediate effect.
   B.   Copy Of Plan To Departments: All department heads of City government
shall have available a copy of the emergency operations plan and be fully aware
of their respective responsibilities under the plan.
   C.   Records Preservation: Immediately upon declaration of an emergency, all
essential records in regard to the City shall be preserved and all records in
regards to emergency response, including orders, proclamations, procurement and
contracts, shall be appropriately documented and maintained pursuant to the
emergency operations plan. The City Recorder shall maintain all records of the
City Council and record them immediately as they occur during the period of
emergency declaration.
   D.   Public Notice Requirements Suspended: During the period of an emergency
declaration as provided herein, public notice requirements of the Open and
Public Meetings Act shall be suspended for actions of the City Council. Public
information and media communications during an emergency declaration period
shall be provided for in the emergency operations plan. (Ord. 93-4, 8-10-1993)
CHAPTER 12
SURPLUS PROPERTY DISPOSAL
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 12A
PURCHASE AND SALE OF CITY-OWNED REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-12A-1: Definitions
1-12A-2: Purchase Of Real Property
1-12A-3: Disposal Of Surplus City-Owned Real Property
1-12A-4: City-Owned Real Property Sale And Purchase Limitations
1-12A-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
CITY-OWNED  Any parcel of real property owned by the city excluding real property held
REAL        jointly with other entities under the Utah interlocal cooperation act, Utah
PROPERTY:   Code Ann. § 11-13-101 et. seq., or real property purchased and held under the
            Utah redevelopment agencies act, Utah Code Ann. § 17B-4-101 et. seq.
DISPOSAL:   The alienation of city owned real property by sale, trade, or transfer of
            title.
SIGNIFICANT Any parcel of real property with an estimated fair market value of one hundred
PARCEL:     thousand dollars or more. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
 
1-12A-2: PURCHASE OF REAL PROPERTY:
In addition to those legal requirements set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-
2 et. seq., the chief financial officer, or designee shall authorize the
purchase of real property as follows:
   A.   Purchase of Real Property; Conditions of Purchase: Prior to the
purchase of any significant parcel of real property, as defined in this code,
in fee simple, the seller of said property must provide the city or the
community development and renewal agency the following information:
      1.   An affidavit in a form approved by the city attorney’s office from
the owner/seller detailing among other things:
         a.   The history of use of the property for the past fifty (50) years.
         b.   Whether or not the property is at natural grade level or has been
filled; and
         c.   The type of businesses or activities that have been conducted on
the property.
      2.   Completion of an environmental assessment of the site by a qualified
professional engineer. The scope of the environmental assessment and the
engineer to be utilized in the performance of the environmental assessment must
be approved by the city prior to the commencement of the assessment. No
property shall be purchased when a report has been completed which indicates
the presence of any materials in violation of the state department of health,
Davis County board of health regulations and/or the regulations of the
environmental protection agency pertaining to hazardous waste and/or petroleum
products until such time as an appropriate clearance has been received by all
the appropriate regulatory entities.
      3.   Execution of a hazardous indemnification agreement in a form
approved by city attorney’s office.
      4.   A copy of the affidavit of use, environmental assessment and
indemnity agreement shall be filed in the office of the Clearfield City
recorder at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to closing of the transaction
for the acquisition of the property.
      5.   For this section, the term “purchase” shall include dedication of a
significant parcel of real property, acquisition for value including purchase,
donation, acquisition by an exchange of property or an action filed for
acquisition by eminent domain. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
1-12A-3: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS CITY-OWNED REAL PROPERTY:
The chief financial officer or designee shall authorize the sale of any city-
owned surplus real property to the public by auction, sealed bid, or other
acceptable method.
   A.   City-Owned Real Property (Land)
      1.   Disposal of surplus land shall be disposed of pursuant to Utah Code
Ann. § 10-8-2(4)(a), as amended, and all other state, federal, or regulatory
requirements. As such, the city defines a significant parcel above, and
requires the following reasonable notice.
         a.   Publishing or posting notice of a public hearing on the proposed
disposition of a significant parcel or real property:
            (1)   On the City’s website;
            (2)   On the Utah Public Notice website; and
            (3)   Mailing such notice to the adjacent property owners.
      2.   The city may lease or sublease city property under conditions as are
deemed desirable, fair, and appropriate, considering the intended land use and
equivalent property tax value, and are in the best interest of the city. (Ord.
2022-20, 6-28-2022)
1-12A-4: CITY-OWNED REAL PROPERTY SALE AND PURCHASE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to the City’s Municipal Ethics Commission and the Utah
Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, the city shall not knowingly
sell surplus real property to an elected officer, appointed officer, or
municipal employee and it is strictly prohibited for any elected officer,
appointed officer, or municipal employee of the city to purchase surplus city
real property. Clearfield Municipal Code §
1-7-10, and Utah State Code Ann. § 10-3-1301 et seq. This restriction includes
any family member, “straw buyer,” or entity/individual in which the elected
officer, appointed officer, or municipal employee has a substantial interest.
   B.   Absent evidence to the contrary, the general purchase of surplus city-
owned real property from a third-party auction by an elected officer, appointed
officer, or municipal employee is not considered a violation of the City’s
Municipal Ethics Commission and the Utah Municipal Officers’ and Employees’
Ethics Act. Clearfield Municipal Code §
1-7-10, and Utah State Code Ann. § 10-3-1301 et seq. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 12B
DISPOSAL OF CITY-OWNED PROPERTY
1-12B-1: Definitions
1-12B-2: Disposal Of Surplus City-Owned Property
1-12B-3: Property Sale And Purchase Limitations
1-12B-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                     Any item that the city owns or has legal title over,
                     except city-owned real property defined below, such as
CITY-OWNED PROPERTY: supplies, equipment, appliances, automobiles, or other
                     tangible items that carry the promise of future worth.
                     (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
 
1-12B-2: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS CITY-OWNED PROPERTY:
The chief financial officer or designee shall authorize the sale of any city-
owned surplus property to the public by auction, sealed bid, or other
acceptable method.
   A.   Surplus Property Disposal Form:
      1.   When a department head determines that property is surplus or excess
to current needs, a declaration will be made using the “Surplus Property
Disposal Form” provided by the chief financial officer. The form must be filled
out and signed by the department head.
      2.   Vehicle titles must accompany the vehicle, with the transfer section
unsigned as titles become negotiable once signed. Odometer Statements must also
accompany the vehicle and be properly completed and signed by the chief
financial officer. Vehicle license plates, city logos, lights (if applicable),
and all applicable accessories must be removed. If the vehicle is being
considered for trade-in, it must be clearly documented on the Surplus Property
Disposal Form with justification that this is the best method of disposal.
      3.   City-owned property that carries the promise of future worth shall
not be destroyed, sold, transferred, traded-in, discarded, donated, or
otherwise disposed of without submitting a properly completed Surplus Property
Disposal Form.
      4.   An estimated current value or minimum acceptable selling price
should be listed on the Surplus Property Disposal Form. Salvage property will
be destroyed or donated and must be described on the disposal form and a
recommendation listed.
      5.   After an item is sold, the Surplus Property Disposal Form must be
completed, and the form must be submitted to the chief financial officer and
will be maintained by the city pursuant to the government retention laws.
   B.   Sale of Property:
      1.   Except for the procedures described in paragraph (2) below, surplus
city property shall be sold to the public at auction by a third party. A
minimum price/bid may be established by the Department Head or designee over
the surplus city property to be sold to the public by auction to better ensure
that the city received fair compensation for the property.
      2.   The direct sale of surplus property by the city to a purchaser
through a platform such as online classifieds (eBay, ksl.com, etc.) is
considered an acceptable method for the sale of property, if in the opinion of
the city manager, such method of sale is determined to be fiscally advantageous
to the city.
         a.   After declaration of real property to be surplus, the chief
financial officer or designee may proceed to dispose of such property through
properly advertised public notice and public hearing.
         b.   The disposal of surplus firearms shall comply with Utah Code Ann.
§ 24-3-101 et. seq., as amended and all applicable federal laws and
regulations. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
1-12B-3: PROPERTY SALE AND PURCHASE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to the City’s Municipal Ethics Commission and the Utah
Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, the city shall not knowingly
sell surplus property to an elected officer, appointed officer, or municipal
employee and it is strictly prohibited for any elected officer, appointed
officer, or municipal employee of the city to purchase surplus city property.
Clearfield Municipal Code §
1-7-10, and Utah State Code Ann. § 10-3-1301 et seq. This restriction includes
any family member, “straw buyer,” or entity/individual in which the elected
officer, appointed officer, or municipal employee has a substantial interest.
   B.   Absent evidence to the contrary, the general purchase of surplus city-
owned property from a third-party auction by an elected officer, appointed
officer, or municipal employee is not considered a violation of the City’s
Municipal Ethics Commission and the Utah Municipal Officers’ and Employees’
Ethics Act. Clearfield Municipal Code §
1-7-10, and Utah State Code Ann. § 10-3-1301 et seq. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 13
CITY BUILDINGS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Short Title
1-13-2: Purpose
1-13-3: Definitions
1-13-4: Priority Of Uses
1-13-5: Prohibited Uses
1-13-6: Scheduling And Application
1-13-7: Deposits And Fees
1-13-8: Responsibility Of Users
1-13-9: Rules And Regulations
1-13-10: Insurance
1-13-11: Indemnity
1-13-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as CLEARFIELD CITY BUILDINGS. (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-
2000)
1-13-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and fees for the use of
the city buildings by various groups. (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-2000)
1-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
CITY BUILDINGS: The new city building and the old city building.
NEW CITY BUILDING: The Clearfield City municipal center located at 55 South
State Street, Clearfield City, Utah.
OLD CITY BUILDING: The city owned building located at 140 East Center Street,
Clearfield City, Utah. (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-2000)
1-13-4: PRIORITY OF USES:
The following is the priority of uses from the highest to the lowest:
   A.   Clearfield City uses.
   B.   Clearfield City activities other than official meetings of the city
council, planning commission, parks and recreation commission, and other
special committees.
   C.   Other governmental organizations.
   D.   Clubs/nonprofit organizations.
   E.   Private/noncommercial.
   F.   Private/commercial. (Ord. 2008-08, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
1-13-5: PROHIBITED USES:
The city buildings are not to be used for gambling, including bingo games, and
any other illegal or unlawful activities. Alcoholic beverages and smoking are
not allowed in the buildings at any time. (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-2000)
1-13-6: SCHEDULING AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Scheduling: Reservations for use of the city buildings must be made at
the Clearfield City Municipal and Justice Center, 55 South State Street, during
regular business hours.
   B.   Application:
      1.   The entity requesting a reservation shall complete an application
provided by the city and submit it together with any required deposits and
fees.
      2.   Rental of the building for periodic uses by the same user must
receive approval from the city manager. (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-2000)
1-13-7: DEPOSITS AND FEES:
   A.   Deposits:
      1.   The person or entity wishing to schedule the buildings, in addition
to completing an application, shall pay a deposit for the use of the building.
The amount of the deposit will be established from time to time by ordinance of
the city council. (Ord. 2008-08, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
      2.   If cleaning or repair of damages to the building or its contents
exceeds the deposit, the party renting the building at the time the damage is
incurred shall pay the total cost of such cleaning and/or repair.
      3.   All deposits are to be paid at least one week in advance of the
event.
      4.   If frequent or periodic reservations are to be used throughout the
year, the user may make an initial deposit which will be held for a period of
one year and be applied on each use period. If there is a claim against the
deposit and the deposit falls below the initial amount, the party shall
immediately pay the difference to bring the deposit back up to the initial
amount.
   B.   Fees: Each user shall pay a fee for use of the building in accordance
with the fee schedule established by the city council by ordinance. (Ord. 00-
10, 7-11-2000)
1-13-8: RESPONSIBILITY OF USERS:
   A.   Preparation: At the time of scheduling for the event, setup and cleanup
time must be scheduled as part of the event. Setup will not be allowed earlier
than four (4) hours prior to the time of the event and the hours reserved must
run consecutively.
   B.   Setup: Setup shall be the responsibility of the person or entity that
has scheduled the building to set up and prepare the room for the authorized
use. Setup shall include setting up chairs, tables and other equipment needed
for the use.
   C.   Cleanup: As part of the scheduling of the facility, time will be
established after the event to allow for the cleanup of the facility. Cleanup
is to take place immediately after the use of the facility. The city will
provide the vacuums, mops and brooms to be used in the cleanup. The party using
the facility shall be required to provide dishcloths and towels. The parking
lot must also be cleaned up by the party making the reservation. If cars (such
as for weddings) have been decorated and a mess is left in the parking lot,
money will be deducted from the deposit to pay for the cleanup.
The building's condition will be inspected on the next working day to make
certain that it has been restored to its original condition prior to the use.
If the party using the building fails to properly restore the building, the
city shall have the right to restore the building to its former condition and
shall deduct such cost from the deposit made by the person or entity using the
building. If the cost of the cleanup by the city exceeds the amount of the
deposit, the responsible party shall pay the city the difference between the
amount of the deposit and the actual cleanup cost. If the cleanup costs do not
exceed the amount of the deposit, then any remaining balance will be returned
to the user. (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-2000)
1-13-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Rules and regulations pertinent to the effective and efficient operation and
preservation of the buildings will be established and enforced by the city
manager or his representative. (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-2000)
1-13-10: INSURANCE:
Private/commercial users shall carry liability insurance with a minimum of one
million per occurrence. A certificate of insurance must be provided before the
actual use and reviewed and approved by the city's risk manager and the
certificate of insurance shall name Clearfield City as an additional insured
and state that the coverage is primary and the rights of subrogation against
Clearfield City are waived. (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-2000)
1-13-11: INDEMNITY:
The person or entity using the building(s) shall indemnify and hold harmless
Clearfield City, its agents and employees from any claims or liabilities
arising out of the use of the building(s). (Ord. 00-10, 7-11-2000)
CHAPTER 14
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
1-14-1: Conformance To Standards
1-14-1: CONFORMANCE TO STANDARDS:
Except as otherwise specified herein, all construction and improvements shall
conform to the city's construction and development standards, technical
specifications, and drawings as established and approved by the city council.
(Ord. 2014-21, 10-14-2014)
CHAPTER 15
CIVIL INFRACTION HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-15-1: Position Of Civil Infraction Hearing Examiner Created
1-15-2: Acts Made Civil Infractions
1-15-3: Notice Of Civil Infraction
1-15-4: Response To Notice Of Civil Infraction; Payment Options
1-15-5: Contesting A Civil Infraction; Hearing; Appeals
1-15-6: Parking Regulation Defenses And Reduction Of Penalty
1-15-7: Reserved
1-15-8: Multiple Default Civil Infractions; Public Nuisance; Impoundment
1-15-9: Civil Appeals
1-15-10: Criminal Violation
1-15-11: Civil Collection Actions
1-15-1: POSITION OF CIVIL INFRACTION HEARING EXAMINER CREATED:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The position of Civil Infraction Hearing Examiner
("CIHE") shall be appointed by the City Manager to preside and conduct a
hearing under this chapter related to the issuance of a notice of civil
infraction. The CIHE may be a City employee, other than the enforcement
official, or a non-City employed person with requisite skill and experience. A
CIHE shall perform all duties and exercise all powers described in this
chapter. The amount of a CIHE's compensation shall not be based directly or
indirectly upon the outcome of cases heard by the CIHE. The duties of the CIHE
may be performed through subordinates, except that a hearing shall be conducted
only by a CIHE if a person charged with a civil infraction so requests in
writing. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-2: ACTS MADE CIVIL INFRACTIONS:
   A.   The following acts, at the option of the City, may be pursued as civil
infractions and within the jurisdiction of the CIHE:
      1.   Parking:
         a.   A violation of any of the parking regulations set forth in title
7 of this Code, as well as Utah Traffic Codes, Utah Code Annotated 41-1a-201,
41-1a-414, 41-1a-1302, 41-6a-1401, 41-6a-1402, 41-6a-1408, or its successors.
         b.   Violations or parking laws and regulations not inconsistent with
these ordinances which are described in State Statutes, including benefitting
disabled (handicapped) persons, which statutes are hereby adopted as a position
of this Code. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-3: NOTICE OF CIVIL INFRACTION:
   A.   A written notice of a civil infraction shall be issued to each person
charged with a civil infraction, which notice shall contain not less than the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the person charged with the infraction.
Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, a notice of civil
infraction for a parking violation, placed on a parked motor vehicle need not
include a name and address;
      2.   The civil infraction charged, and standard penalty amount;
      3.   The date, place, and approximate time of the civil infraction;
      4.   If the civil infraction involved the use of a motor vehicle, the
make of the vehicle and its license number;
      5.   The signature of the police officer or enforcement official, or
other identifying number;
      6.   Notice that the notice of civil infraction must be responded to at
the Office of the CIHE within ten (10) business days, and the consequences of
failure to pay penalty;
      7.   The right and the procedures to request a hearing; and
      8.   Other information, including information related to payments by
mail.
   B.   If a civil infraction relates to a parking regulation, the notice of
civil infraction may be issued by affixing the same to the subject motor
vehicle in a conspicuous place. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-4: RESPONSE TO NOTICE OF CIVIL INFRACTION; PAYMENT OPTIONS:
   A.   Any person to whom a notice of civil infraction has been issued shall
respond within ten (10) business days thereof by:
      1.   Paying the fee described in the City's consolidated fee schedule for
each violation (for good cause, the CIHE may allow reasonable terms for
payment);
      2.   Contesting the violation in the manner described in section
7-5-3 of this Code; or
      3.   Demonstrating the financial inability to pay the applicable fee on
any reasonable terms. A person claiming under this subsection A3 shall agree
with the CIHE to perform public service in lieu of paying the fee, which public
service shall be performed in not more than thirty (30) days after the
agreement is entered into.
   B.   Fees may be paid by mail or online at www.clearfieldcity.org.
      1.   The risk associated with mailing or paying a fee online shall be on
the sender, and all payments shall be received by the CIHE within the times
required by this chapter.
   C.   Failure to respond to a notice of civil infraction shall be prima facie
evidence that the infraction alleged therein actually occurred, and a CIHE may
enter a default judgement.
      1.   A default judgment for failure to respond to a notice of civil
infraction may only be set aside by the CIHE after receiving written
application to set aside that establishes clear and convincing evidence that
the failure to respond was not the cause of appellant.
      2.   The CIHE may or may not require a hearing prior to any determination
to set aside a default judgement for failure to respond to a notice of civil
infraction. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-5: CONTESTING A CIVIL INFRACTION; HEARING; APPEALS:
   A.   Any person charged with a civil infraction may contest the same instead
of paying the fee. A civil infraction is contested by causing written notice
thereof to be delivered to the Office of the CIHE. If the person charged with a
civil infraction fails or refuses to give a correct mailing address when
contesting a civil infraction the action shall be deemed to be in default and
not contested.
   B.   When a civil infraction is contested, the CIHE shall thereafter conduct
a civil hearing with respect thereto. The notice of civil infraction shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the infraction alleged therein actually
occurred. The hearing shall be conducted as informally as the circumstances
will allow and shall be based on the civil standard of a preponderance of the
evidence. At the hearing, any party, may be required to testify. The CIHE shall
accept written relevant documentation, photographs, or video submitted by
either party in lieu of testimony and may establish the weight as to the
credibility of any such document as the CIHE determines appropriate. (Ord.
2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-6: PARKING REGULATION DEFENSES AND REDUCTION OF PENALTY:
   A.   The CIHE shall follow the below appeal hearing procedures:
      1.   Defense; Burden To Prove: The burden to prove any defense shall be
upon the person raising such defense.
      2.   Dismissal; Defenses: If the CIHE finds that no unauthorized use
occurred or an unauthorized use occurred but one or more of the defenses set
forth in this subsection is applicable, the CIHE may dismiss the notice of
civil infraction and release the owner or driver from liability thereunder.
Such defenses are:
         a.   At the time of the unauthorized use, possession of the subject
vehicle had been acquired by a third party in violation of the criminal laws of
the State;
         b.   Compliance with the subject ordinances would have presented an
imminent and irreparable injury to persons or property;
         c.   Such other defense as may be approved by the CIHE.
      3.   Reduction Of Penalty: If the CIHE finds that an unauthorized use
occurred but one or more of the mitigating circumstances set forth in this
subsection is applicable, the Hearing Officer may reduce the penalty associated
therewith, but in no event shall such penalty be reduced below the sum set
forth in the City's consolidated fee schedule. Such defenses are:
         a.   At the time of date of the notice, possession of the subject
vehicle had been acquired by another party pursuant to a written lease
agreement or similar written agreement;
         b.   The subject vehicle was mechanically incapable of being moved
from such location; provided, however, such circumstances shall not apply to
any vehicle which remains at such location in excess of twenty four (24) hours;
         c.   Any markings, signs or other indicia of parking use regulation
were not clearly visible or comprehensible;
         d.   Such other mitigating circumstances as may be approved by the
CIHE.
      4.   Agreement For Payment: If the CIHE finds that an unauthorized use
occurred and no applicable defense exists, the CIHE may, in the interest of
justice and on behalf of the City, enter into an agreement for the timely or
periodic payment of the applicable penalty.
   B.   If the CIHE finds the civil infraction alleged did not occur, the
notice of civil infraction shall be without any further force or effect. If the
CIHE finds at the hearing that the civil infraction alleged did occur, the
person to whom the notice of civil infraction was issued shall respond as
provided in subsection 1-15-4A1 or A3 of this chapter. The response shall be
within ten (10) days after the hearing, unless the decision is given by mail
and not at the hearing, in which event the response shall be in ten (10) days
after the decision is mailed to the address given when the civil infraction was
contested. A contested action shall be in default if not responded to in the
time periods provided in this subsection. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-8: MULTIPLE DEFAULT CIVIL INFRACTIONS; PUBLIC NUISANCE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Any motor vehicle with respect to which four (4) or more notices of
civil infractions are in default is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
Clearfield City may authorize said motor vehicle to be towed from the public
streets at the expense and risk of the registered owner, and in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated 41-6a-1406, as amended, or its successor provision. Said
motor vehicle shall be held and not released until the unpaid fees, and
reasonable costs of towing and storage have been paid.
   B.   If a motor vehicle has been towed from the public streets pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter and is being held for the payment of fees and
charges, the owner thereof, or the agent of the owner, may, in writing, request
a hearing with the CIHE to determine the validity of the action taken with
respect to said motor vehicle, and said hearing shall take place within seventy
two (72) hours from the date of the request, unless the applicant agrees to a
longer period of time before the hearing. The CIHE may order the release of any
motor vehicle without cost to the owner or the owner's agent if said motor
vehicle was towed from the public streets or is being held in violation of this
chapter or other applicable law. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-9: CIVIL APPEALS:
Any person dissatisfied with a decision of a CIHE may appeal the final
determination of the CIHE to the Second District Court in accordance with the
Utah Administrative Procedures Act, Utah State Code section 63G-4-101, et seq.
Failure to respond to a notice of infraction shall not be a decision from which
an appeal can be taken. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-10: CRIMINAL VIOLATION:
   A.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision in this chapter, it shall be a
Class C criminal misdemeanor violation, with exclusive original jurisdiction in
the Justice Courts:
      1.   For a person to whom a notice of civil infraction has been issued to
allow the subject action to go into default due to nonpayment of the fine(s)
imposed or continued noncompliance with this Code;
      2.   For a registered owner to fail or refuse to respond to a notice of
civil infraction issued pursuant to subsection 1-15-3B of this chapter; or
      3.   For a person to willfully fail or refuse to completely perform the
public service agreed to pursuant to subsection 1-15-4A3 of this chapter.
   B.   For the purposes of this section it shall be a rebuttable presumption
that the notice of civil infraction and any other civil notices have been
received by the addressee. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
1-15-11: CIVIL COLLECTION ACTIONS:
Clearfield City may bring civil suit in the courts of the State of Utah to
recover the amount of overdue and unpaid fees, and any other reasonable charges
related thereto. (Ord. 2017-17, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 16
CODE ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE A. GENERAL
SECTION:
1-16A-1: Purpose And Scope
1-16A-2: Existing Law Continued
1-16A-3: Remedies Not Exclusive
1-16A-4: No Mandatory Duty To Enforce
1-16A-5: General Enforcement Authority
1-16A-6: Authority To Inspect
1-16A-7: False Information
1-16A-8: Failure To Obey A Subpoena
1-16A-9: Acts Include Causing, Aiding, And Abetting
1-16A-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a comprehensive
Code enforcement system that uses a combination of judicial and administrative
remedies to gain compliance with selected Municipal ordinances.
   B.   Authority: The enactment of this chapter by the City is made, in part,
pursuant to authorization found in sections 10-8-84, 41-6a-207 and 41-6a-214,
Utah Code, as amended, and in concert with the constitutional issues described
in Tate v. Short, 401 U.S. 396 (1971), and subsequent U.S. Supreme Court
decisions.
   C.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter may be applied to seek remedy for
any and all violations of this Code. It has been designed to provide optional
remedies for the City to use in achieving compliance with this Code. However,
failure to comply with an action brought forth pursuant to this chapter may
require the City to file a judicial action to gain compliance. (Ord. 2018-03,
3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16A-2: EXISTING LAW CONTINUED:
The provisions of this chapter do not invalidate any other title or ordinance
but shall be interpreted in conjunction with the rest of this Code as providing
remedies for the enforcement of this Code. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord.
2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16A-3: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The City has sole discretion in deciding whether to pursue administrative,
civil or criminal remedies for the violation of the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16A-4: NO MANDATORY DUTY TO ENFORCE:
   A.   Prosecutorial Discretion: In establishing the remedies and procedures
provided in this chapter, the City recognizes the principles of prosecutorial
discretion in the context of the Code enforcement proceedings described in
article B of this chapter.
   B.   No Civil Liability: It is the intent of the City that in establishing
performance standards or establishing an obligation to act, that these
standards shall not be construed as creating a mandatory duty for purposes of
tort liability if the officer or employee fails to perform his or her directed
duty or duties. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16A-5: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
Whenever an enforcement official finds that a violation of this Code has
occurred or continues to exist, the enforcement official has the authority and
power necessary to gain compliance with the provisions of this Code through the
administrative procedures of this Code, or otherwise as permitted under State
law. These powers include the power to commence administrative or criminal
enforcement procedures, issue a request for compliance, inspect public and
private property, abate violations upon private property, and use whatever
judicial and administrative remedies are available under this Code and
applicable State law. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16A-6: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
   A.   Any City enforcement official is authorized to enter upon any property
or premises to perform inspections, examinations and surveys as may be
necessary in the performance of that enforcement official’s duties. This may
include, but not be limited to, the taking of photographs, samples, or other
physical evidence. All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be
done in a reasonable manner based upon probable cause.
   B.   The enforcement official may obtain a search warrant to allow the
enforcement official to enter the property. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord.
2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16A-7: FALSE INFORMATION:
Pursuant to authorization found in section 76-8-506, Utah Code, as amended, it
shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse
to give his or her name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with a
City employee when in the performance of his or her official duties. (Ord.
2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16A-8: FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA:
Pursuant to authorization found in section 54-7-23(2), Utah Code, as amended,
it shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued
for a Code enforcement hearing. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-
24-2022)
1-16A-9: ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING:
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this title, said unlawful act
or omission shall include causing, permitting, aiding, or abetting such act or
omission. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
1-16B-1: Procedures
1-16B-2: Definitions
1-16B-3: Service Of Process
1-16B-4: Request For Compliance
1-16B-5: Responding Or Not Responding To A Request For Compliance
1-16B-6: Compliance Inspections; Notice Of Compliance
1-16B-7: Code Enforcement Hearings
1-16B-8: Default Judgments
1-16B-9: Administrative Hearing Officer
1-16B-10: Code Enforcement Orders
1-16B-11: Failure To Comply With Code Enforcement Order
1-16B-12: Appeal Of Code Enforcement Order
1-16B-13: Recordation Of Notices And Orders
1-16B-14: Prohibition Against Issuance Of Municipal Permits
1-16B-15: Performance Bonds
1-16B-16: Abatement And Emergency Processes
1-16B-17: Nonemergency Abatement
1-16B-18: Demolitions
1-16B-19: Non-Property Related Emergency License Suspension Or Revocation,
Emergency Cease And Desist Orders
1-16B-20: Civil Penalties And Injunctions
1-16B-21: Recovery Of Fees And Costs
1-16B-22: Code Enforcement Funds And Accounting
1-16B-1: PROCEDURES:
The City Manager is authorized to develop policies and procedures relating to
the administrative hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and
other matters relating to this article. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord.
2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall be used
and construed as defined in this section, unless a different meaning is
specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter and specifically stated to
apply:
            Any action the City may take to remove or alleviate a violation, including, but
ABATEMENT:  not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding up, securing or replacement
            of property.
CODE
ENFORCEMENT An order issued by a Hearing Officer under this article. Also “order”.
ORDER:
CODE
ENFORCEMENT A bond required by a Hearing Officer under this chapter and posted by a
PERFORMANCE responsible person to ensure compliance with this Code.
BOND:
CODE        A lien recorded with the County Recorder and the County Treasurer to facilitate
ENFORCEMENT collection of outstanding civil penalties, administrative fees, and costs.
TAX LIEN:
            Unless otherwise expressly provided, count every day, including intermediate
DAY OR      Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays as defined by the Utah Rules of Civil
DAYS:       Procedure, but if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the period
            will continue to run until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday,
            or legal holiday.
            The formal process of exchanging information between the parties about the
            witnesses and evidence to be presented at trial. The purpose of discovery is to
DISCOVERY:  make the parties aware of the evidence that may be presented at trial. The process
            prevents “trial by ambush”, where one side does not learn of the other side’s
            evidence or witnesses until the trial.
            A Code enforcement order issued under sections
EMERGENCY   1-16B-16 and/or
ORDER:      1-16B-19 of this article calling for emergency action in advance of any due
            process hearing opportunity.
ENFORCEMENT A person authorized by the City Manager to issue and pursue a request for
OFFICIAL:   compliance under this article.
FEE         The most recently adopted Clearfield City consolidated fee schedule.
SCHEDULE:
            Incapacitating illness or accident, death of a parent or sibling, lack of proper
GOOD CAUSE: notice, or unavailability due to unavoidable and unpreventable emergency or
            circumstance.
            The person appointed by the City Manager to preside and conduct a Code enforcement
HEARING     hearing under this article. The Hearing Officer may be a department head, other
OFFICER:    than the enforcement official or his or her supervisor, or a non-City employed
            person with requisite skill and experience.
IMMINENT    Any condition that creates a present and immediate danger to the public health,
HAZARD:     safety, or welfare.
LEGAL       Any interest that is represented by a valid document or instrument, such as a
INTEREST:   contract, deed of trust, quit claim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or
            assessment lien, mechanic’s lien, or other similar instrument.
            A document issued by the City, confirming that the responsible person has remedied
NOTICE OF   the Code violations set out in a request for compliance, paid all fees, penalties
COMPLIANCE: and costs assessed and otherwise fully complies with the requirements of a Code
            enforcement order.
PERFORMANCE A bond posted by a responsible person to ensure compliance with this Code,
BOND:       applicable State titles, a judicial action, or an administrative enforcement
            order.
            A human being and a corporate entity. For this purpose partnerships, limited
PERSON:     liability companies and business trusts, in addition to corporations, are deemed
            to be persons.
PRIMA FACIE Evidence that is sufficient to establish a fact or raise a presumption unless
EVIDENCE:   disproved or rebutted.
PROPERTY    The record owner of real property based on the records of the Davis County
OWNER:      Recorder.
PUBLIC      See title 5, chapter 1 of this Code and the Utah Code.
NUISANCE:
REQUEST FOR A written notice prepared and issued by an enforcement official that informs a
COMPLIANCE: responsible person of Code violations and orders them to take certain steps to
            correct the violations.
            Any person(s) responsible for allowing, permitting, causing or maintaining a
RESPONSIBLE violation of this Code. Such responsible person may include, but not be limited
PERSON:     to, the property owner and/or the person in possession of real property; and the
            person committing the conduct violating this Code.
TORT        An act or omission that gives rise to injury or harm to another and amounts to a
LIABILITY:  civil wrong for which courts impose liability.
TREBLE      A term that indicates triple the amount of the actual/compensatory costs to be
COSTS:      awarded to the City. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
 
1-16B-3: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
   A.   Method: Whenever service of a request for compliance, responsive
pleading, order or other document is required to be given under this article,
the document shall be served by any of the following methods:
      1.   Regular mail, first class postage prepaid, to the last known address
of the responsible person(s);
      2.   Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. If
not inhabited, the notice must also be mailed as in subsection A1 of this
section. The form of the posted notice shall be approved by the enforcement
official or his or her designee; or
      3.   Personal service pursuant to Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.
   B.   Date Of Service: Service by regular mail in the manner described above
shall be deemed served on the third day after the date of mailing. Date of
service by publication will be twenty-four (24) hours following the last
publication.
   C.   Serving Some, But Not All, Responsible Persons: The failure to serve
some but not all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings as against those persons properly served.
   D.   Valid Service: If service complies with the requirements of this
section, it shall be deemed a valid service even if a party claims not to have
received the service and it shall not affect the validity of any proceedings
taken under this title.
   E.   Constructive Notice Of Recorded Documents: Whenever a document is
recorded with the County Recorder as authorized or required by this title or
applicable State codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the
information contained in the recorded documents. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd.
Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-4: REQUEST FOR COMPLIANCE:
   A.   General: An enforcement official has the authority to commence an
administrative Code enforcement process through the issuance and service of a
request for compliance. Whenever an enforcement official determines that a
violation of this Code has occurred and/or continues to exist, the enforcement
official may issue a request for compliance. The request for compliance shall
include the following information:
      1.   Name of property owner;
      2.   Street address of violation;
      3.   Date violation observed;
      4.   All code sections violated and description of condition of the
property that violates the applicable codes;
      5.   A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to
permanently correct outstanding violations, which may include corrections,
repairs, demolition, removal, or other appropriate action;
      6.   Specific date to correct the violations listed in the request for
compliance, which date shall be at least fourteen (14) days from the date of
service;
      7.   Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail
to comply with the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the request for
compliance, which may include, but are not limited to, criminal prosecution,
civil penalties, revocation of permits or licenses, recordation of the request
for compliance, withholding of future Municipal permits, abatement of the
violation, costs, administrative fees, and any other legal remedies;
      8.   The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the
penalty will accrue daily until the property is brought into compliance;
      9.   That only one request for compliance is required for any 12-month
period, and that civil penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent
violations of the notice. The responsible person may request a hearing on the
renewed violations by following the same procedure as provided for in the
original notice;
      10.   The following procedure to request a hearing: The request for
hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the City Recorder within ten
(10) calendar days from the date of service. The request shall contain the case
number, the address of the violation, and the signature of the responsible
party and a Hearing Fee of $150.00 that is refundable if the violations are
determined to be unfounded.
      11.   The consequences for failure to request a hearing, including that
failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right
to a hearing and a waiver of the right to challenge the action.
   B.   Service: The request for compliance shall be served by one of the
methods of service listed in section
1-16B-3 of this article.
   C.   More Than One Notification: More than one request for compliance may be
issued to the same responsible person, if it encompasses different dates, or
different violations. For a request for compliance
   D.   Related to weeds, the enforcement official is not required to make more
than one notice for each annual season of weed growth for weeds growing on a
property.
   E.   No Criminal Authority: An enforcement official has no authority to
issue a criminal citation or information, but may refer a violation of this
Code through the Police Department to the City Attorney’s Office for the
screening of criminal charges. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-
24-2022)
1-16B-5: RESPONDING OR NOT RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Suspension And Possible Dismissal Of Penalties For Prompt And
Continuing Remediation Of Violations: Any and all accrued penalties associated
with the violations described in the request for compliance shall be suspended
if:
      1.   The responsible person causes violations described in a request for
compliance to be corrected;
      2.   The responsible person requests an inspection from the City within
the time specified in the notice following service of the request for
compliance; and
      3.   A notice of compliance is issued in response to that request for an
inspection.
This suspension of penalties will continue and will be dismissed if during the
twelve (12) months immediately following the date of the notice of compliance
there is no recurrence of substantially the same violation.
   B.   Penalties Continue To Accrue: If a responsible person fails to correct
the violations described in a request for compliance within the time specified
in the request for compliance, or the responsible person commits or allows
substantially the same violation within the succeeding twelve (12) months
following issuance of a notice of compliance, all penalties that began to
accrue daily on the date of the first request for compliance shall be owed in
full to the City and shall continue to accrue for each and every subsequent day
of continuing violation.
   C.   Criminal Prosecution Possible: Failure to remedy the violations
described in a request for compliance is a Class B misdemeanor and may be
prosecuted as such.
   D.   Penalty Suspension After Hearing: Notwithstanding subsection B of this
section, the Hearing Officer may order accrued penalties and costs to be
dismissed, in whole or in part, or suspended.
   E.   Request A Hearing: If the responsible person(s) served with a request
for compliance disputes the legal or factual bases of the violations described
in the request for compliance, the responsible person(s) may request a Code
enforcement hearing before a Hearing Officer.
   F.   Failure To Respond To The Request for compliance; Default Judgment: A
responsible person who fails to request a hearing or remediate the violation
and request an inspection by the City within the time specified in the request
for compliance will be subject to the entry of default judgment upholding the
request for compliance and directing and imposing the actions, penalties, fees
and costs associated therewith. This default judgment will be final and non-
appealable.
   G.   Civil Penalties Accrue Daily: Unless suspended or reduced as otherwise
provided in this article or in a Code enforcement order, civil penalties accrue
daily and as authorized pursuant to section 10-3-703, Utah Code, as amended no
civil penalty for a single-family dwelling shall exceed allowable amounts as
outlined in the above Utah Code reference for civil penalties.
   H.   Extension Of Time: A responsible person may request an extension of the
time specified for remediating Code violations set out in the request for
compliance by submitting a request in writing to the Code Enforcement Division
at the address and telephone number shown on the request for compliance at any
time within the specified time after service of the request for compliance
stating and affirming as follows:
      1.   The responsible person waives any right to request a hearing to
dispute the request for compliance;
      2.   The responsible person is actively engaged in remediation
activities; and
      3.   The claimed inability to complete remediation activities in time to
request an inspection within the time specified is the result of specified and
adequately described factors and forces outside of the control of the
responsible person.
   I.   Shortening Of Time: The normal time to respond to a request for
compliance may be shortened by administrative directive of the City Manager in
response to the need for more rapid response and abatement. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-
27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-6: COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS; NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Duty To Request Inspection: It shall be the duty of the responsible
person(s) served with a request for compliance to request an inspection by the
City when the described violation has been corrected. Upon request of a
responsible party, the City shall perform an inspection as soon as practicable
to determine whether the violations described in the request for compliance
have been corrected. If following a requested inspection the City declines to
issue a notice of compliance, the responsible person(s) have a duty to request
a re-inspection once further remediation work is completed. A re-inspection fee
will be due and payable.
   B.   Enforcement Official To Direct Inspections: It is the duty of the
enforcement official who issued the request for compliance or an authorized
designee to perform or cause to be performed any and all compliance
inspections.
   C.   Notice Of Compliance: If the City determines that the violation(s)
described in a request for compliance is fully remediated, a notice of
compliance shall be issued.
   D.   Effect Of Notice Of Compliance: The notice of compliance shall be
deemed effective upon the date the inspection resulting in the notice of
compliance was requested, and, except as provided in subsection
1-16B-5B of this article, no further penalties shall accrue for any fully
remediated violation.
   E.   Denial Of Notice Of Compliance: After an inspection, if the City denies
a request for a notice of compliance, the City shall serve the responsible
person with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the denial.
   F.   Challenge To Noncompliance Determination: If a responsible person
believes that a City decision not to issue a notice of compliance resulting
from a requested inspection is in error and that the inspection should have
resulted in a notice of compliance, that person may request a Code enforcement
hearing to challenge the inspection result.
   G.   Effect Of Code Enforcement Order: If a Code enforcement order upholds
some but not all violations described in a request for compliance, such an
order has the effect of amending the request for compliance as to any further
inspections or reviews, and any future requests for a notice of compliance.
   H.   Prima Facie Evidence: It is prima facie evidence, meaning evidence that
is sufficient to establish a fact or raise a presumption unless disproved or
rebutted, that the violation is continuing if no inspection or review is
requested.
   I.   Re-Inspection Fees: Re-inspection fees shall be assessed to the
responsible person named in a request for compliance if more than one
inspection or review is necessary to confirm full remediation of the violations
described in the request for compliance. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord.
2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-7: CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The City finds that there is a need to establish uniform
procedures for Code enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to this article. It
is the purpose and intent of the City to afford due process of law to any
person who is directly affected by a Code enforcement action. Due process of
law includes notice, an explanation of the accusations, and an opportunity to
be heard prior to imposition of a penalty. These procedures are also intended
to establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly review and
resolve issues raised in any request for compliance.
   B.   Request For Code Enforcement Hearing:
      1.   A responsible person has the right to request a Code enforcement
hearing by filing a written request and paying the required filing fee, if the
request is filed within the time specified in the request for compliance for
compliance and follows one of the following:
         a.   Service of a request for compliance;
         b.   Service of a notice of abatement;
         c.   Notice of itemized bill for costs as outlined in subsection
1-16B-17E of this article; or
         d.   A refusal by the City to issue a notice of compliance following
an inspection.
      2.   As soon as practicable after receiving a request for hearing, the
City Manager or his or her designee shall arrange for and appoint a Hearing
Officer, and the Hearing Officer will schedule a date, time, and place for the
hearing, and will serve written notice of the same to all responsible persons.
      3.   Failure to timely request a hearing as provided shall constitute a
waiver of the right to a hearing and a waiver of the right to challenge the
City’s action set out in the request for compliance. Such a failure to request
a hearing will result in a default judgment being entered upholding the request
for compliance and assessing accrued fees, penalties and costs.
   C.   Procedures At Code Enforcement Hearings:
      1.   Informal In Nature: Code enforcement hearings are intended to be
informal in nature. The formal Utah Rules of Evidence and Discovery do not
apply; however, an informal exchange of relevant documents and other evidence
may be required at the discretion of the Hearing Officer.
      2.   Discovery Requests: Discovery requests must be in writing directed
to the opposing party. Failure to timely request discovery shall preclude a
continuance to enable additional discovery or investigation.
      3.   Personal Information Protected: A complainant’s personal identifying
information is protected and shall not be released unless the complainant is a
witness at the hearing.
      4.   Burden Of Proof:
         a.   The City bears the burden of proof at a Code enforcement hearing
requested to substantively challenge a request for compliance.
         b.   At a hearing challenging the denial of a notice of compliance the
responsible person(s) will bear the burden of proof and persuasion with respect
to the claim that a notice of compliance should be issued.
         c.   In a Code enforcement hearing requested to review the costs
associated with an involuntary abatement, the responsible person has the burden
of proof that one or more costs were improper or excessive.
         d.   In any hearing on a motion to set aside a default judgment, the
responsible person has the burden of proof to show good cause.
      5.   Standard Of Proof: The standard of proof to be used by the Hearing
Officer in deciding any issue at a Code enforcement hearing is the
preponderance of the evidence. A preponderance of the evidence shows what is
more likely than not.
      6.   Activities Allowed To Support Case: Each party shall have the
opportunity to cross examine witnesses and present evidence in support of his
or her case. If approved in advance by the Hearing Officer, testimony may be
given by telephone or other electronic means.
      7.   Hearings Open To Public: All hearings are open to the public.
Hearings shall be recorded to enable verbatim transcripts to be prepared as
needed.
      8.   Representation By Attorney: The responsible person may be
represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be representing the responsible
person at the hearing, notice of the attorney’s name, address, and telephone
number must be given to the City’s Code Enforcement Program Office at least
seventy-two (72) hours prior to the hearing. If timely notice is not given, and
an attorney appears for a responsible person, the hearing will be continued at
the City’s request, and any costs of the continuance will be assessed to the
responsible person.
      9.   Fee Refund If Violation Dismissed: If the Hearing Officer dismisses
the request for compliance entirely, the hearing fee shall be refunded to the
responsible person who paid it.
   D.   Failure To Attend Code Enforcement Hearing: Any responsible person
named in a request for compliance who fails to appear at a duly noticed hearing
is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, which will result in a default
judgment entered for the City as to that responsible person. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-
27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-8: DEFAULT JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Entry Of Default Judgment; Hearing Officer To Issue: If a responsible
person fails to timely request a Code enforcement hearing or, once requested
the responsible person fails to attend the hearing, default judgment will be
entered by the Hearing Officer imposing the relief requested in the request for
compliance and assessing fees, costs and penalties as appropriate. The
enforcement official shall seek the appointment of a Hearing Officer to review
and enter the default judgment.
   B.   Effect Of Default Judgment: Except as provided for in subsection D of
this section, a default judgment is a final order and may not be appealed
through the City or through the courts. Following the issuance of a default
judgment, the City may forthwith proceed to involuntarily abate a real property
violation and may commence a collection action in District Court to recover
accrued and unpaid fees, penalties and costs approved in the default judgment.
   C.   Service Of Default Judgment: A copy of a signed default judgment shall
be served on all applicable responsible persons promptly following signing by
the Hearing Officer.
   D.   Motion To Set Aside Default Judgment: Within fifteen (15) days
following service of a default judgment in favor of the City, a responsible
party may prepare and submit a written request that the default judgment be set
aside. The moving party will have the burden of proof and persuasion. The
Hearing Officer may set aside the default judgment if good cause is shown. If
the Hearing Officer decides to set aside a default judgment, the Hearing
Officer shall cause a Code enforcement hearing to be scheduled and noticed
according to the requirements of this article.
   E.   Decision Of Hearing Officer Final: The decision of a Hearing Officer to
decline or set aside a default judgment is final and non-appealable. (Ord.
2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-9: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   Authority To Hold Hearings: The Hearing Officer has the authority to
hold hearings, determine if violations of this Code exist, order compliance
with this Code, and enforce compliance with this Code as provided in this
article.
   B.   Authority To Continue Hearings: The Hearing Officer may continue a
hearing to a later time or date.
   C.   Subpoenas: The Hearing Officer, at the request of any party to the
hearing, may sign subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where
the attendance of the witness for the admission of evidence is deemed necessary
to decide the issues at the hearing. All costs related to the subpoena,
including witness and mileage fees, as provided in Utah Code, shall be borne by
the party requesting the subpoena.
   D.   Continuing Jurisdiction: The Hearing Officer has continuing
jurisdiction over the subject matter of a Code enforcement hearing for the
purposes of granting a continuance; ordering compliance by issuing a Code
enforcement order, by using any remedies available under the law; all to aid in
obtaining compliance with that order, which includes the right to authorize the
City to enter and abate a property violation; modifying a Code enforcement
order; or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new hearing. The
Hearing Officer may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be necessary or
as requested by a party to the hearing to effect compliance with the Code
enforcement order.
   E.   Involuntary Abatement: The Hearing Officer may order the City to enter
the property and abate all violations, which may include, but is not limited to
removing animals or other property in violation of this Code.
   F.   License/Permit Revocation: The Hearing Officer may revoke a permit or
license, including but not limited to those permits and licenses described in
sections
1-16B-10,
1-16B-14, and
1-16B-19 of this article.
   G.   Conditional Penalty Abatement: The Hearing Officer may condition the
total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person’s
ability to complete compliance by specified deadlines.
   H.   Performance Bond: The Hearing Officer may order the responsible person
to post a performance bond to ensure compliance with the order. (Ord. 2018-03,
3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-10: CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDERS:
   A.   Stipulated Agreement: The City may enter into a stipulated agreement
with the responsible person(s) to resolve the issues of a request for
compliance without a hearing. This agreement shall be accepted by the Hearing
Officer and entered as the Code enforcement order resolving the request for
compliance. Entry of this agreement as a Code enforcement order shall
constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and waiver of the right to appeal
to District Court.
   B.   Issuance Of Order: Within thirty (30) business days after completion of
the Code enforcement hearing, the Hearing Officer shall issue a Code
enforcement order that affirms, modifies or rejects the request for compliance,
in whole or in part. The Hearing Officer may reduce, not increase, the total
amount of fees, penalties and costs that are due pursuant to this article and
on the City’s fee schedule.
   C.   Enter And Abate: The Hearing Officer may order the City to enter the
property and abate all violations, which may include removing animals kept in
violation of this Code.
   D.   Animals: The Hearing Officer may revoke a kennel permit, an animal
license, or the right to possess animals as provided in this Code.
   E.   Ability To Complete Compliance: As part of the Code enforcement order,
the Hearing Officer may condition the total or partial assessment of civil
penalties on the responsible person’s ability to complete compliance by
specified deadlines.
   F.   Subsequent Hearings: The Hearing Officer may schedule subsequent review
hearings as may be necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to
ensure compliance with the Code enforcement order.
   G.   Performance Bond: The Hearing Officer may order the responsible person
to post a performance bond to ensure compliance with the order.
   H.   Final Order: The Code enforcement order shall become final on the date
the Hearing Officer signs the order.
   I.   Service: The Code enforcement order shall be served on all parties
pursuant to section
1-16B-3 of this article. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-
2022)
1-16B-11: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:
If the responsible person fails to comply with the terms and deadlines set
forth in the Code enforcement order, the City may use all appropriate legal
means to enforce the Code enforcement order and to recover the fees, penalties
and costs associated therewith. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-
24-2022)
1-16B-12: APPEAL OF CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:
   A.   Judicial Review: Any person adversely affected by any final Code
enforcement order issued following a Code enforcement hearing, except an
enforcement order upholding the denial of a notice of compliance, may file a
petition for review of the Code enforcement order in the District Court within
thirty (30) days after the date of the Code enforcement order.
   B.   No Judicial Review:
      1.   The decision of a Hearing Officer upholding a denial of a notice of
compliance is final and non-appealable.
      2.   A default judgment and a decision by a Hearing Officer to deny a
motion to set aside a default judgment are final and non-appealable.
   C.   Exhaustion Of Administrative Remedies: No person may challenge in
District Court a Code enforcement order until that person has exhausted his or
her administrative remedies.
   D.   Obtaining The Administrative Record For Judicial Review: Within thirty
(30) days after submitting a petition for review in the District Court, the
party petitioning for judicial review shall request a copy of the record of the
Code enforcement hearing, including transcripts if required by the District
Court. The City shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the
reviewing court until the party petitioning for judicial review has paid all
required copying and transcription costs. The petitioning party’s failure to
properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the full costs for the
record, within sixty (60) days after the petition for review was filed shall be
grounds for dismissal of the petition. The City shall have an additional sixty
(60) business days from the date of request to prepare and submit the requested
file and/or transcript.
   E.   Possible Remand Back To City: If a transcript of a hearing cannot be
prepared because the tape recording is incomplete or unintelligible, and there
is no other reliable record of the Code enforcement hearing otherwise
available, the District Court may, in its discretion, remand the matter back to
the City for a supplemental proceeding to create a usable record.
   F.   District Court Review On The Record: The District Court’s review is
limited to the evidence in the record of the Code enforcement order that is
being reviewed, and not a new trial or hearing on the facts or evidence. The
court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of the City’s
record.
   G.   Scope Of District Court Review; Burden Of Proof: The District Court
shall:
      1.   Presume that the Code enforcement order(s) on review is valid; and
      2.   Review the record to determine whether or not the evidence available
to the Hearing Officer shows that the order was arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal.
      3.   The petitioner for review has the burden of proof before the
District Court. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-13: RECORDATION OF NOTICES AND ORDERS:
   A.   Purpose: The City finds that there is a need for alternative methods of
enforcement for violations of this Code that are found to exist on real
property. The City further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for
these types of violations is the issuance and recordation of notices of
violation and Code enforcement orders. The recordation against the subject
property shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedies
established by law that may be pursued to address the violation.
   B.   Authority: The enforcement official is authorized to record the request
for compliance, default judgment, and/or the Code enforcement order against the
subject property in the Davis County Recorder’s Office.
   C.   Procedures For Recordation:
      1.   If a violation continues to exist on real property after the
deadline established in the request for compliance, and no request for a Code
enforcement hearing has been filed, the enforcement official may record the
request for compliance and/or default judgment order.
      2.   The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the
parcel number, the legal description of the parcel, a copy of the request for
compliance, and a copy of the Code enforcement order.
      3.   The recordation is not a lien against the property but acts as a
notice to future interested parties concerning any continuing violation found
upon the property.
   D.   Notice Of Recordation: A notice of the recordation shall be served on
the responsible person(s).
   E.   Cancellation Of Recorded Notice Or Order: If a notice of compliance is
issued, the enforcement official may record the notice with the County
Recorder’s Office. Recordation of the notice of compliance shall have the
effect of updating and nullifying the previously recorded request for
compliance or Code enforcement order to which it applies. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-
2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-14: PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS:
During the pendency of any unresolved request for compliance, the City may
withhold from the responsible person(s): a) business licenses; b) permits for
any alteration, repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new
structures or signs on the property, and permits pertaining to the use and
development of the real property or the structure; and c) other permits or
licenses that may otherwise be sought from the City. The City may withhold
requested permits until a notice of compliance is issued. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-
2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-15: PERFORMANCE BONDS:
   A.   As part of any notice, order, or action, the Hearing Officer has the
authority to require responsible persons to post a performance bond to ensure
compliance with this Code, applicable State codes, or any judicial action.
   B.   If the responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or
action, the bond will be forfeited to the City. The bond will not be used to
offset the other outstanding costs and fees associated with the case. (Ord.
2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-16: ABATEMENT AND EMERGENCY PROCESSES:
   A.   Abatement Of Violation: Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted
to exist in violation of any provisions of this Code may be involuntarily
abated by the City pursuant to the procedures set forth in this article.
   B.   Enforcement Official Authority: The enforcement official is authorized
to enter upon any property or premises to involuntarily abate any violation of
this Code consistent with the provisions of this article. The enforcement
official may assess all costs incurred by the City for the abatement to the
responsible person(s) and use any remedy available under the law to collect
such costs. If additional abatements for the same or substantially similar Code
violations are necessary within one year of the date of any default judgment or
Code enforcement order, the enforcement official may assess treble costs
against the responsible person(s) for the subsequent abatement(s).
   C.   Requirements For Involuntary Abatement:
      1.   Whenever the enforcement official determines that an imminent hazard
exists, with approval from the City Manager or his or her designee, the
enforcement official may issue an emergency order directing one or more of the
following actions be taken:
         a.   Order the immediate vacation of any owners, tenants and
occupants, and prohibit occupancy until all imminent hazards have been
corrected;
         b.   Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;
         c.   Board, fence, or secure any building or site;
         d.   Raze and grade the premises to the extent necessary to remove any
imminent hazard to the general public;
         e.   Make emergency repairs; or
         f.   Take any other action appropriate to eliminate or protect the
public against an imminent hazard.
      2.   This emergency order, together with a request for compliance, shall
be served on the responsible person(s) in accordance with section
1-16B-3 of this article, at or before the time the ordered actions are to take
place.
         a.   The enforcement official has the authority, based on probable
cause, to direct City personnel, including those contracted to perform work at
the direction of the City, to enter the property without a search warrant or
court order to accomplish the above listed acts to abate the imminent hazard.
         b.   The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated
with the abatement of the imminent hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to
this article through procedures set forth herein or through a court of
competent jurisdiction.
         c.   The enforcement official shall pursue only the minimum level of
correction or abatement as necessary to eliminate the immediacy of the hazard.
         d.   The enforcement official may also pursue any other administrative
or judicial remedy to abate any remaining violations.
   D.   Notice: After an emergency abatement, the City shall notify the
responsible person of the abatement action taken, the itemized costs, and the
location of any seized and removed personal property. This notice shall be
served as soon as possible, but no more than ten (10) business days of
completion of the involuntary abatement.
   E.   Request For Hearing: The responsible person(s) may request a Code
enforcement hearing pursuant to and in accordance with section
1-16B-7 of this article to challenge the costs of an involuntary abatement. If
timing of the emergency actions results in the notice of abatement being issued
and served prior to a requested Code enforcement hearing under the request for
compliance, the hearing on the merits of the request for compliance can be
consolidated with any requested hearing under this subsection to challenge a
cost or abatement action. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-
2022)
1-16B-17: NONEMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
If the responsible person fails, within the time provided in the Code
enforcement order, to abate a property related violation after a Code
enforcement order or default judgment is issued directing that such abatement
take place, the City may abate the violation.
   A.   Right Of Entry; Performance By Contractor: City personnel, or a private
contractor acting under the direction of the City, may enter upon private
property in a reasonable manner to abate any Code violation as specified in a
Code enforcement order.
   B.   Abatement By Responsible Person: If the City undertakes preparatory or
other steps to perform an involuntary abatement pursuant to a Code enforcement
order or on an emergency basis, but the responsible person proceeds on his own
to abate the violation before the City completes the actual abatement, the City
may still assess all costs incurred by the City in undertaking preparatory or
other steps to abate the violation to the responsible person(s).
   C.   Itemized Account: When the abatement is completed, a report describing
the work performed and an itemized account of the total abatement costs shall
be prepared by the City. The report shall contain the names and addresses of
the responsible person, the owner of each parcel, and the tax parcel numbers.
   D.   Notice: The enforcement official shall notify the responsible person(s)
of the abatement action taken by the City. The notice shall be served within
ten (10) business days of completion of the abatement and shall include a
description of the work performed and an itemized accounting of costs, and
shall demand full payment of all abatement costs, within twenty (20) days of
the date of the notice, to the City.
   E.   Abatement Cost Hearing: Within ten (10) days of the notice provided for
in subsection D of this section, the responsible person(s) may request a Code
enforcement hearing pursuant to and in accordance with section
1-16B-7 of this article, to contest the costs of the abatement, and the Hearing
Officer shall schedule and hold such a hearing according to the requirements of
this article. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-18: DEMOLITIONS:
   A.   Authority: Whenever the enforcement official, building official, or
Fire Marshal determines that a property or building requires demolition, any
one of them may demolish or remove the offending structure, exercise any and
all powers listed in section
1-16B-16 of this article once appropriate notice has been given to a
responsible person pursuant to the Uniform Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
Code or Fire Codes as required in the Utah Code. The responsible person shall
be liable for all costs associated with the demolition. Costs may be recovered
pursuant to this title.
   B.   Procedures: Once the enforcement official has determined that the
building official or the Fire Marshal has complied with all of the notice
requirements of the applicable law, the property will be abated pursuant to the
abatement remedy. Other applicable remedies may also be pursued. (Ord. 2018-03,
3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-19: NON-PROPERTY RELATED EMERGENCY LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION,
EMERGENCY CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS:
   A.   Authority: With approval from the City Manager or his or her designee,
an enforcement official may issue an order suspending or revoking a license or
permit and/or an emergency cease and desist order on an emergency basis if:
      1.   Credible facts known by, or presented to, the enforcement official
show an imminent hazard; and
      2.   The imminent hazard requires immediate action by the City.
   B.   Requirements: In issuing an emergency order, the enforcement official
shall:
      1.   Limit the emergency order to require only the action necessary to
prevent or avoid the danger to the public health, safety, or welfare;
      2.   Issue a written order, effective immediately, that includes a brief
statement of findings of fact, conclusions of law, and reasons for the
enforcement official’s utilization of emergency proceedings; and
      3.   Serve the emergency order together with a request for compliance on
the persons who are required to comply with the order. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-
2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-20: CIVIL PENALTIES AND INJUNCTIONS:
   A.   Assessment:
      1.   Any person violating any provision of this Code may be subject to
the assessment of civil penalties for each violation, except civil penalties
shall not be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same
violation.
      2.   Interest at the default rate provided in the Utah Code shall be
assessed on all outstanding civil penalties, costs and/or unpaid fee balances,
compounded monthly, until the penalties have been paid in full.
      3.   Civil penalties for violations of any provision of this Code or Utah
Code shall be assessed pursuant to the City’s consolidated fee schedule or as
otherwise expressly provided in this Code.
      4.   If a responsible person fails to comply with a request for
compliance within the time stated, civil penalties shall accrue as of the date
of the request for compliance and shall continue to accrue and be owed to the
City for each and every subsequent day of violation.
   B.   Failure To Pay Penalties: The failure of any person to pay civil
penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the City pursuing
any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.
   C.   Civil Injunctions: In addition to any other remedy provided under this
Code or State codes, including criminal prosecution or administrative remedies,
any provision of this Code may be enforced by injunction issued in the District
Court upon suit brought by the City. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-
11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-21: RECOVERY OF FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   The City finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by
enforcement officials and other City personnel who spend considerable time
inspecting and re-inspecting properties throughout the City in an effort to
ensure compliance with this Code.
      2.   The City further finds that the assessment of costs in addition to
penalty assessments is an appropriate method to recover expenses incurred for
actual costs of abating violations, performing re-inspections, retaining
attorneys, preparing for and conducting hearings, title searches, and any
additional costs incurred by the City for each individual case. The assessment
and collection of costs shall not preclude the imposition of any administrative
or judicial civil penalties.
   B.   Assessment Of Re-Inspection Fees: Notification of re- inspection fees
and costs shall be described on the request for compliance.
   C.   Filing Fees: A request for hearing for any of the permitted purposes
under this article shall be accompanied by a filing fee as prescribed in the
City’s consolidated fee schedule.
   D.   Failure To Timely Pay Filing Fees And Costs: The failure of any person
to pay assessed costs or filing fees by the deadline specified in this Code or
in a City invoice will result in interest at the default rate provided in the
Utah Code being added and compounded monthly. Failure to pay a filing fee when
due will result in no hearing being scheduled.
   E.   Statement Of Intent Regarding Recovery Of Code Enforcement Penalties
And Costs Through Liens And Collection Actions: The City finds that recordation
of Code enforcement tax liens will assist in the collection of penalties, fees
and costs and otherwise achieve compliance with this Code. The City further
finds that collection of civil penalties and assessed costs is important in
deterring future violations and maintaining the integrity of this Code. The
procedures established in this article shall be used to complement existing
administrative or judicial remedies that may be pursued to address violations
of this Code.
   F.   Procedures For Tax Liens Without A Judgment:
      1.   The City Manager or his or her designee is authorized to record with
the County Treasurer a Code enforcement tax lien against real property for the
accrued fees, penalties and costs incurred during a City performed abatement.
      2.   The failure of any person with a legal or financial interest in the
property to actually receive the notice of Code enforcement tax lien shall not
affect the validity of the lien or any proceedings taken to collect the
outstanding penalties, costs and fees associated with an abatement.
   G.   Cancellation Of Code Enforcement Tax Lien: Once payment in full is
received for the outstanding penalties and assessed costs, or the amount is
deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order, the
City shall either record a notice of satisfaction against the same property or
provide the property owner with the notice of satisfaction to be recorded. The
notice of satisfaction shall include the same information as provided for in
the original Code enforcement tax lien. Such notice of satisfaction shall
cancel the Code enforcement tax lien.
   H.   Procedures For Tax Liens With A Judgment: Once a civil judgment has
been obtained from the appropriate court approving fees, penalties and costs
against the responsible person(s), the City may record that judgment as a Code
enforcement tax lien against any real property owned by the responsible person
(s).
   I.   Recovery Of Costs Through Judicial Writs: After obtaining a civil
judgment awarding fees, penalties and/or costs, the City may enforce the
judgment by use of all appropriate legal means, including, but not limited to,
garnishment of wages and accounts and foreclosure on real and personal
property. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
1-16B-22: CODE ENFORCEMENT FUNDS AND ACCOUNTING:
   A.   Abatement Fund: There is hereby established a revolving fund to be
known as the “Abatement Fund” to defray costs of administrative and judicial
abatements. The fund shall be reimbursed by collection from the property or
property owner or responsible person as specified in this title and by the
courts. The City shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account
identification, credit, and collection. This fund may be operated and used in
conjunction with procedures ordered or authorized under the abatement provision
of this title.
      1.   Repayment To The Abatement Fund: All monies recovered from the sale
or transfer of property or by payment for the actual abatement costs shall be
paid to the City, who shall credit the appropriate amount to the Abatement
Fund.
   B.   Code Enforcement Enhancement Fund: Administrative fees and
administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs collected pursuant to
this chapter, shall be deposited in the “Operations Fund”, as established by
the enforcement official for the enhancement of the City’s Code enforcement
efforts and to reimburse City departments for investigative costs and costs
associated with the hearing process. Fees and costs deposited in this fund
shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the enforcement
official. The City shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper
account identification, credit, and collection.
   C.   General Fund: Civil penalties collected pursuant to this chapter shall
be deposited in the General Fund of the City. Civil penalties deposited in this
fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the City
Manager and the City Council. The City shall establish accounting procedures to
ensure proper account identification, credit, and collection. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-
27-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 5-24-2022)
TITLE 2
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 1
TAXES AND TAXATION
ARTICLE A. ANNUAL TAX LEVY 1
SECTION:
2-1A-1: Annual Tax Levy
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-6-133.
2-1A-1: ANNUAL TAX LEVY:
   A.   Specified: Before June 22 of each year or August 17 in the case of a
property tax rate increase under Utah Code Annotated sections 59-2-919 through
59-2-923, the City Council, at a regular meeting or special meeting called for
that purpose, shall by ordinance or resolution set the real and personal
property tax levy for various Municipal purposes, but the levy may be set at an
appropriate later date with the approval of the State Tax Commission. (1966
Code § 2-2-1; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Fund Requirements: The City Council shall, in its computation of the
total levy, determine the requirements of each fund for which property taxes
are to be levied and shall specify in its resolution adopting said levy the
number of mills apportioned to each of said funds.
   C.   Proceeds: The proceeds of said levy apportioned for General Fund
purposes shall be received as revenue in the General Fund. The proceeds of said
levy apportioned for utility and other special fund purposes shall be credited
to the appropriate accounts in the utility or other special funds. (1966 Code §
2-2-1)
   D.   Maximum Levy: The total tax levy for all purposes in any year,
excluding the retirement of general obligation bonds and the payment of
interest, and taxes expressly authorized by law to be levied in addition, may
not exceed .007 per dollar of taxable value of taxable property. (1966 Code §
2-2-1; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE B. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-1B-1: Title
2-1B-2: Purpose
2-1B-3: Sales Tax
2-1B-4: Execution Of Documents
2-1B-5: Contract With State Tax Commission
2-1B-6: Penalty
2-1B-1: TITLE:
This Article shall be known as THE LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE. (2000
Code)
2-1B-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of Tax: The Forty Eighth Session of the Utah Legislature
authorized municipalities of the State to enact sales and use tax ordinances
imposing a three-fourths of one percent (3/4%) tax.
   B.   Tax Established; Effective Date: It is the purpose of this Article to
levy and impose a three-fourths of one percent (3/4%) local option sales and
use tax effective January 1, 1990, to authorize and designate the Utah State
Tax Commission as agent for the City to collect the tax and to conform with the
requirements of the Local Sales and Use Tax of Utah, Utah Code Annotated title
59, chapter 12. (2000 Code)
2-1B-3: SALES TAX:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., January
1, 1990, there is levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon the
purchaser for the amount paid or charged for those items listed and subject to
taxation under Utah Code Annotated subsection 59-12-103(i), made within the
City at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4%).
      2.   From and after one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., January
1, 1990, an excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property from any retailer at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4%) of the sales price of the property.
      3.   For the purposes of this Article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-State destination. If a retailer has no permanent place of business in
the State, or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and
regulations prescribed and adopted by the State Tax Commission. "Public
utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated title 54, shall not be obligated
to determine the place or places within any county or municipality where public
utilities are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenues arising
from such service allocable to the City shall be as determined by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   B.   Adoption Of State Codes; Provisions:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Local Sales Tax and Use Tax Act of
Utah, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part
1, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as
they relate to sales and use taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119
thereof, and excepting for the amount of the sales and use tax levied therein,
are hereby adopted and made a part of this Article as though fully set forth
herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this
subsection B shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the City
for the word "State" when the word is used as part of the title of the State
Tax Commission, or of the constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the City
be substituted for that of the State in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the State Tax
Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this Section.
      4.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of Utah
under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, shall not be included
as a part of the purchase price paid or charged for a taxable item.
      5.   The sale, storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property,
the purchase price of which has been subject to sales or use tax under a sales
and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with this part by any county, city
or town in any other county in this State, shall be exempt from the tax due
under this Section.
      6.   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales
or use tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with this
part by any county other than the county in which the city or town is located,
or the city or town in this State, shall be exempt from the tax due under this
Section.
      7.   The tax revenues derived hereunder shall be distributed in
accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated subsection 59-12-205(2).
(2000 Code)
2-1B-4: EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS:
The Mayor or the Mayor's designee is authorized to execute documents as
necessary to distribute sales and use tax revenues on the combination of point
of sale and population factors set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
205. (2000 Code)
2-1B-5: CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
Heretofore, the City has entered into an agreement with the State Tax
Commission to perform all functions incident to the administration or operation
of the sales and use tax ordinance of the City. This contract is confirmed and
the Mayor is authorized to enter into such supplementary agreement with the
State Tax Commission as may be necessary to the continued administration and
operation of the local sales and use tax ordinance of the City as reenacted by
this Article. (2000 Code)
2-1B-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be deemed
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as set forth in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2000 Code)
ARTICLE C. UTILITY REVENUE TAX 1
SECTION:
2-1C-1: Definitions
2-1C-2: Tax Imposed
2-1C-3: Businesses In Competition With Public Utilities
2-1C-4: Filing Reports And Payment Of Tax
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 11-26-1 et seq.
2-1C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this article, for the purpose of
this article, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
GROSS REVENUE: The revenue derived from the sale and use of public utility
services within the city of Clearfield.
IN COMPETITION WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES: Any person who trades in products or
services within the same market as a public utility taxed under section
2-1C-2 of this article.
PERSON: Shall mean or include a natural person, firm, partnership, association
or corporation.
PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE: The sale and use of city provided water and sewer
services. (Ord. 93-2, 7-13-1993; amd. Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997, eff. 6-30-1997;
Ord. 2004-11, 6-8-2004)
2-1C-2: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby levied upon the business of every person engaged in the
business in the city of supplying city provided water and sewer services, an
annual utility franchise tax equal to six percentum (6%) of the gross revenue
derived from the sale and use of the services of said utilities delivered from
and after July 1, 1993, within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 93-2, 7-
13-1993; amd. Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997, eff. 6-30-1997; Ord. 2004-11, 6-8-2004)
2-1C-3: BUSINESSES IN COMPETITION WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES:
There is hereby levied upon the business of every person engaged in the
business in the city of supplying water and sewer service in competition with
public utilities, an annual utility franchise tax equal to six percentum (6%)
of the gross revenue derived from the sale and use of such competitive services
delivered from and after July 1, 1993, within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 93-2, 7-13-1993; amd. Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997, eff. 6-30-1997; Ord. 2004-
11, 6-8-2004)
2-1C-4: FILING REPORTS AND PAYMENT OF TAX:
Within forty five (45) days after the close of each month in a calendar year,
any person taxed hereunder shall file with the city treasurer a report of its
gross revenue derived from the sale and use of services as specified hereunder,
together with the computation of the tax levied hereunder. Concurrent with the
filing of such report, the person taxed hereunder shall pay the city treasurer
the amount of the tax. (Ord. 93-2, 7-13-1993)
ARTICLE D. ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-1D-1: Definitions
2-1D-2: Tax Imposed
2-1D-3: Exemptions From Tax
2-1D-4: Existing Franchises; Effect, Credit For Fees
2-1D-5: Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
2-1D-6: Incorporation Of State Code, Including Amendments
2-1D-7: Additional License Not Required
2-1D-8: Effective Date
2-1D-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: A. A fee:
1. Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
2. That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
   C.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE: A. That fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for
sale or use in the City and includes:
1. The value of the energy itself; and
2. Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service charges or
other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable form to
each class of customer in the City.
   B.   Does not include the amount of a tax paid under part 1 or part 2 of
chapter 12, title 59 of Utah Code Annotated.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimis of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded by rule
promulgated by the State Tax Commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX: A. A franchise tax;
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this State,
any county, city, municipality, district or other local government entity of
the State, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in Clearfield City for any
purpose, except sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE: A. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   Use does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial or the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord. 97-
10, 5-27-1997)
2-1D-2: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this Article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the City equaling six percent
(6%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax
shall be known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   Calculation: The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the
taxable energy to the consumer.
   B.   Sales And Use Tax, Additional: The tax shall be in addition to any
sales or use tax on taxable energy imposed by the City authorized by title 59,
chapter 12, part 2 of Utah Code Annotated, Local Sales and Use Tax Act. (Ord.
97-10, 5-27-1997)
2-1D-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b);
notwithstanding an exemption granted by Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-104.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel and special fuels subject
to taxation under title 59, chapter 13 of Utah Code Annotated;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
Federal law, the United States Constitution or the Utah Constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4.   Sales and use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under title 59, chapter 13 of Utah Code Annotated;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the State by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the State, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the State by a nonresident living or
working in the State at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
City.
   C.   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt
from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this Article, provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within this
State authorized by title 59, chapter 12, part 3 of Utah Code Annotated; and
      2.   The City is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this Article, if the
tax due under this Article exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997)
2-1D-4: EXISTING FRANCHISES; EFFECT, CREDIT FOR FEES:
   A.   Scope: This Article shall not alter any existing franchise agreements
between the City and energy suppliers.
   B.   Conditions For Credit: There is a credit against tax due from any
consumer in the amount of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the City
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on June 30, 1997;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 97-10, 5-27-
1997)
2-1D-5: COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   On or before the effective date hereof, the City shall contract with
the State Tax Commission to perform all functions incident to the
administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and use tax, in
accordance with this Article. (This contract may be a supplement to the
existing contract with the Commission to administer and collect the local sales
and use tax.) The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with the
State Tax Commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and
operation of the municipal energy sales and use tax ordinance enacted by this
Article. (Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the City monthly if:
      1.   The City is the energy supplier; or
      2.   The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
      3.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   C.   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the City may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by section 10-1-307(4), Utah Code
Annotated. (Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997)
2-1D-6: INCORPORATION OF STATE CODE, INCLUDING AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Except as herein provided and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of title 10, chapter 1, part 3, Municipal Energy Sales and
Use Tax Act, as well as this Article, all of the provisions of part 1, chapter
12, title 59 of Utah Code Annotated, as amended and in force and effect on the
effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, excepting
sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, and excepting for the amount of the
sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this
Article as if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever and to the extent that in part 1, chapter 12, title 59, Utah
Code Annotated, as amended, the State of Utah is named or referred to as the
"taxing agency", the name of this City shall be substituted, insofar as is
necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as part 3, chapter 1, title
10, Utah Code Annotated, as amended. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed
to require substitution of the name of the City for the word "State" when that
word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission or of the
Constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the City be substituted for that of
the State in any section when the result of such a substitution would require
action to be taken by or against the City or any agency thereof, rather than by
or against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Article.
   C.   Any amendments made to part 1, chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code
Annotated, as amended, which would be applicable to the City for the purposes
of carrying out this Article are hereby incorporated herein by reference and
shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute.
(Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997)
2-1D-7: ADDITIONAL LICENSE NOT REQUIRED:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this Article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under section 59-12-106, Utah Code Annotated.
(Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997)
2-1D-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The Ordinance codified herein is effective June 30, 1997. The municipal energy
sales and use tax shall be levied beginning one minute after twelve o'clock
(12:01) A.M., July 1, 1997. (Ord. 97-10, 5-27-1997)
ARTICLE E. TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX AND
9-1-1 TAX
SECTION:
2-1E-1: Definitions
2-1E-2: Levy Of Tax
2-1E-3: Tax Rate And Collection
2-1E-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption
2-1E-5: Effective Date
2-1E-6: Interlocal Agreement
2-1E-7: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
2-1E-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
CUSTOMER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, "customer"
means the person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications
provider to pay for the telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this article, "customer" means:
1. The person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications
provider to pay for telecommunications service received under the contract; or
2. If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
1. Of telecommunications service; or
2. For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER: A. The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MUNICIPALITY: Those gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the
municipality for the purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah code title 59,
chapter 12, sales and use tax act and determined in accordance with Utah code
section 59-12-207.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee, or charge:
1. Imposed by a governmental entity;
2. Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the transaction with the
customer for the telecommunications service; and
3. Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under title 59, chapter 12, sales and use tax act; or
   C.   Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Is defined in the mobile telecommunications
sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
MUNICIPALITY: Clearfield City.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE: A. For telecommunications service other than mobile
telecommunications service, means the street address representative of where
the customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which
shall be:
1. The resident street address of the customer; or
2. The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, "service
address" means:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection is known, the location of
the telecommunications equipment:
1. To which a call is charged; and
2. From which the call originates or terminates;
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
1. The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
2. If the system used to transport the signal is to a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this
definition, "telecommunications provider" means a person that:
1. Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications service; or
2. Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition for the
shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
1. That person; or
2. The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls, operates, or
manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined
in Utah code section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A. Telephone service, as defined in Utah code
section 59-12-102, other than mobile telecommunications service, that
originates and terminates within the boundaries of this state; and
   B.   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah code section 59-
12-102:
1. That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state; and
2. Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications sourcing act,
4 USC section 116 et seq. (Ord. 2004-11, 6-8-2004)
2-1E-2: LEVY OF TAX:
   A.   There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on
the gross receipts from telecommunications service attributed to this
municipality. (Ord. 2004-11, 6-8-2004)
   B.   There is hereby imposed a
9-1-1 emergency telephone tax on each local exchange access line, wireless
communications access line or other technological or radio device access line
that under normal operation is designed to, or routinely used to access
9-1-1, within Davis County, Utah. (Res. 2004R-07, 4-27-2004)
2-1E-3: TAX RATE AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Telecommunications License Tax: The rate of the tax levy shall be three
and one-half percent (3.5%) of the telecommunication provider's gross receipts
from telecommunications service that are attributed to the municipality subject
to the following: (Ord. 2007-17, 6-12-2007)
      1.   If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than this
municipality then the rate imposed on the gross receipts for telecommunications
services shall be the lower of: a) the rate imposed by the taxing jurisdiction
in which the transaction is located or b) the rate for nonmobile
telecommunication services shall be the rate imposed by the municipality in
which the customer's service address is located; or for mobile
telecommunications service, the rate imposed by the municipality of the
customer's primary place of use. (Ord. 2004-11, 6-8-2004)
   B.   
9-1-1 Emergency Telephone Tax:
      1.   The tax levy shall be sixty five cents ($0.65) per month on each
access line indicated in subsection 2-1E-2B of this article.
      2.   The tax shall be collected at the time charges for
telecommunications are collected under the regular billing practice of the
service provider, and remitted to the Utah state tax commission monthly.
Service providers are required to collect such surcharges and remit the amounts
collected monthly, together with required reporting forms. The service
providers may deduct and retain four cents ($0.04) of the monthly surcharge as
cost recovery for implementing wireless enhanced phase I technology and for
collecting and administering the levy. (Res. 2004R-07, 4-27-2004)
2-1E-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION:
The rate of the telecommunications license tax levy shall not exceed four
percent (4%) of the telecommunication provider's gross receipts from
telecommunication service attributed to the municipality unless a higher rate
is approved by a majority vote of the voters in this municipality that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 2004-11, 6-8-2004)
2-1E-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   A.   The telecommunications license tax shall be levied beginning July 1,
2007. (Ord. 2007-17, 6-12-2007)
   B.   The
9-1-1 emergency telephone tax shall be levied commencing on October 1, 2004.
(Res. 2004R-07, 4-27-2004)
2-1E-6: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT:
On or before the effective date of this article, the municipality shall enter
into the uniform interlocal agreement with the commission as described in Utah
code section 10-1-405 for the collection, enforcement, and administration of
the municipal telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 2004-11, 6-8-2004)
2-1E-7: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
Any tax or fee previously enacted by this municipality under authority of Utah
code 10-1-203 or Utah code title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of utilities
limitation, is hereby repealed.
Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal ordinance
or fee which provides that the municipality may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the municipality caused by
the activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the
municipality, if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah code section 72-7-
102 and is not related to the municipality's loss of use of a highway as a
result of the activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way,
or increased deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way nor does this article limit the
municipality's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to
the municipal telecommunications license tax under this article and locate
telecommunications facilities, as defined in Utah code section 72-7-108, in
this municipality. (Ord. 2004-11, 6-8-2004)
ARTICLE F. TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
2-1F-1: Definitions
2-1F-2: Tax Imposed
2-1F-3: Computation
2-1F-4: Remittance
2-1F-5: Notice To State Tax Commission; Contract With State
2-1F-6: Restriction On Use Of Revenues
2-1F-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A place providing temporary sleeping accommodations that
is regularly rented to the public and includes:
   A.   A motel;
   B.   A hotel;
   C.   A motor court;
   D.   An inn;
   E.   A bed and breakfast establishment;
   F.   A condominium;
   G.   A resort home.
RENTS: Rents and timeshare fees or dues.
TRANSIENT: A person who occupies a public accommodation for thirty (30)
consecutive days or less. (Ord. 2008-13, 11-25-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
2-1F-2: TAX IMPOSED:
Pursuant to the authority granted under part 3A, chapter 12, title 59, Utah
Code Annotated or its successor provisions, there is levied upon every person
doing business in the city as a public accommodation a transient room tax upon
the gross revenue derived from rents charged to a transient occupying public
accommodations in the amount of one percent (1%) of the rents charged for each
and every occupancy of a suite, room or rooms. The transient room tax imposed
herein shall be levied at the same time and collected in the same manner as
provided in part 2, local sales and use tax act, including the assessment of
penalties and interest rates authorized under 59-1-401 and 59-1-402, Utah Code
Annotated, or its successor provisions. (Ord. 2008-13, 11-25-2008, eff. 1-1-
2009)
2-1F-3: COMPUTATION:
For purposes of this article, the gross revenue derived from rents shall be
computed based upon the base room rental rate. There shall be excluded from
rents:
   A.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by any other
governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer;
   B.   The amount of any transient room tax levied under authority of chapter
31 of title 17, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, or its successor;
   C.   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food, beverage or room
service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room or rooms,
not included in the base room rate; and
   D.   Charges made for supplying telephone service, gas or electrical energy
service, not included in the base room rate. (Ord. 2008-13, 11-25-2008, eff. 1-
1-2009)
2-1F-4: REMITTANCE:
Unless otherwise required under state law or any agreement with the state tax
commission, the tax imposed by this article shall be due and payable to the
city treasurer quarterly on or before the thirtieth day of the month next
succeeding each calendar quarterly period, the first of such quarterly periods
being the period commencing with January 1, 2009. Every person or business
taxed hereunder shall on or before the thirtieth day of the month next
succeeding each calendar quarterly period, file with the license office a
report of its gross revenue for the preceding quarterly period. The report
shall be accompanied by a remittance of the amount of tax due for the period
covered by the report. (Ord. 2008-13, 11-25-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
2-1F-5: NOTICE TO STATE TAX COMMISSION; CONTRACT WITH STATE:
   A.   Before April 1, 2009, the city shall provide notice to the state tax
commission meeting the requirements of section 59-12-355(2)(b), Utah Code
Annotated.
   B.   The city may enter into a contract with the state tax commission to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
article. (Ord. 2008-13, 11-25-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
2-1F-6: RESTRICTION ON USE OF REVENUES:
Tax revenues collected pursuant to this article shall be restricted to a
special revenue fund known as the tourism and marketing fund. Expenditures from
such fund shall be limited to special purposes or projects as authorized in the
city's annual budget within the nondepartmental accounts, as described in this
code. (Ord. 2008-13, 11-25-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
CHAPTER 2
BUDGET
SECTION:
2-2-1: General Requirements
2-2-2: Preparation Of Budget
2-2-3: Accumulation Of Surplus
2-2-4: Reserve For Capital Improvements
2-2-5: Limitations On Appropriations
2-2-6: Public Hearing
2-2-7: Adoption Of Budget
2-2-8: Internal Services Fund
2-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
All budgetary and fiscal procedures and requirements relating to the City shall
be carried out and established pursuant to the provision of the Uniform Fiscal
Procedures Act, title 10, chapter 6, Utah Code Annotated. (1966 Code § 2-1-7;
amd. 2000 Code)
2-2-2: PREPARATION OF BUDGET:
   A.   Information Required: On or before May 1 of each year, the City
Manager, as ex officio Budget Officer, shall prepare for the ensuing budget
year, on forms provided by the State Auditor, and file with the City Council, a
tentative budget for each fund for which a budget may be required. Each
tentative budget submitted to the City Council shall contain detailed estimates
of expenditures submitted by department heads, together with specific work
programs and such other supporting data as the City Council may request. The
budget shall be accompanied by a budget message, which shall be explanatory of
the budget and shall set forth reasons for any salient changes from the
previous years in appropriation and revenue items.
   B.   Review By City Council: The tentative budget shall be reviewed,
considered and tentatively adopted by the City Council in any regular or
special meeting called for the purpose and may be amended or revised in such
manner as is deemed advisable prior to public hearing thereon, except as
restricted by law. (1966 Code § 2-1-1)
2-2-3: ACCUMULATION OF SURPLUS:
Cities may accumulate earned surplus in any utility or enterprise fund, or
unappropriated surplus in any other fund, except that with respect to the
General Fund, its use shall be restricted to the following purposes:
   A.   Finance Of Expenditures: To provide cash with which to finance
expenditures from the beginning of the budget year until general property
taxes, sales taxes or other revenues applicable thereto are collected, thereby
reducing the amount which the City must borrow during such period;
   B.   Emergency Expenditures: To provide a fund or reserve out of which to
meet emergency expenditures; and
   C.   Deficit Coverage: To cover unanticipated deficits in future budget
years. The accumulation of surplus in the General Fund shall not include
amounts which must be allocated to the estimated revenue of the budget year
pursuant to the provisions of Section
2-2-5 of this Chapter. (1966 Code § 2-1-2)
2-2-4: RESERVE FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The City may appropriate from estimated revenue in any
budget year money to a reserve for capital improvements within a capital
improvements fund for the purpose of financing future specific capital
improvements. Money in said reserves shall be allowed to accumulate from year
to year until the accumulated total thereof is sufficient to permit economical
expenditures for the specified purposes.
   B.   Disbursements: Disbursements from said reserves shall be made only by
transfer to a revenue account within said capital improvements fund, pursuant
to a budget appropriation thereof in a budget for said fund, duly adopted in
the manner provided by adoption of budgets by State law. (1966 Code § 2-1-3)
2-2-5: LIMITATIONS ON APPROPRIATIONS:
   A.   Estimated Expendable Budget: The city council shall not make any
appropriation in the final budget of any fund in excess of the estimated
expendable revenue for the budget year of such fund.
   B.   Determination: In determining the estimated expendable revenue of the
general fund for the budget year, there shall be included therein as an
appropriation from surplus, that portion of the unappropriated surplus account
of said fund at the close of the last completed fiscal year, not previously
included in the budget of the current year, which exceeds an amount equal the
sum of:
      1.   Fifty percent (50%) of estimated revenue of said fund from property
and sales taxes in a budget year, as determined before such appropriation from
surplus; and
      2.   Ten percent (10%) of total actual revenue for the last completed
fiscal year. This provision shall apply only to the budget of the general fund
in the city.
   C.   Existing Deficit: There shall be included as an item of appropriation
in each fund for any budget year any existing deficit as of the close of the
last completed fiscal year not previously included in the budget of the current
year to the extent of the last five percent (5%) of the total revenue of such
fund in such last completed fiscal year; provided, however, if the total amount
of the deficit is less than five percent (5%) of the total revenue in said last
competed fiscal year, the entire amount of such deficit shall be included. This
provision shall apply to the budgets of all funds which require budgets. (1966
Code § 2-1-4)
2-2-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
At a meeting of the City Council at which the tentative budget is adopted, the
City Council shall determine the time and place of a public hearing to consider
the adoption of the budget and shall order that notice thereof be published at
least seven (7) days prior thereto posting on the Utah Public Notice website,
the City’s website on the home page, and in three (3) conspicuous places within
the city. At the time and place so advertised, the City Council shall hold a
public hearing on the budget as submitted, at which all interested persons
shall be given an opportunity to be heard, for or against, the estimates of
revenue and expenditures or any item thereof in any fund. (1966 Code § 2-1-5;
amd. Ord. 2022-14, 6-14-2022)
2-2-7: ADOPTION OF BUDGET:
   A.   Continuation Of Review: After the conclusion of such public hearing,
the city council may continue its review of the tentative budget and may insert
such new items or may increase or decrease such items of expenditure as were
the proper subject of consideration at such public hearing, except as
restricted by law.
   B.   Adoption By Resolution: On or before June 30 of each fiscal year, the
city council shall, by resolution, adopt a budget for the ensuing fiscal year.
A copy of the final budget shall be certified and filed with the state auditor.
(1966 Code § 2-1-6)
2-2-8: INTERNAL SERVICES FUND:
   A.   Established: The chief financial officer is authorized and directed to
establish an internal services fund for the purpose of creating and accounting
for the following:
      1.   Central data processing services.
      2.   Central maintenance services.
      3.   Self-insuring, insurance services, insurance revolving fund.
   B.   Proprietary Fund Type: Proprietary fund type account will be utilized
with regards to this internal services fund. (Ord. 2008-09, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-
1-2008; amd. Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 2A
DISASTER FUND
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Created
2-2A-1: CREATED:
   A.   Established: Pursuant to the Utah state disaster recovery funding act,
the city's chief financial officer is authorized and directed to establish a
special restricted internal services fund for the purpose of creating and
accounting for a local government disaster fund for the city.
   B.   Restrictions: The city's disaster fund, its use and any deposits or
transfers made thereto, shall be subject to the restrictions set forth in the
state's disaster recovery funding act as well as the following:
      1.   Deposits And Transfers:
         a.   Amounts transferred to the city's disaster fund in any given
fiscal year shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total estimated revenues
(unrestricted or not otherwise obligated) for the city during that same fiscal
year.
         b.   Monies received from outside public or private sources given to
the city for purposes consistent with this section which are then deposited
into the city's disaster fund either at the direction of the city council or by
request of the donor shall not be counted toward the maximum annual deposits
allowed as described in subsection B1a of this section.
      2.   Use: Any monies in the city's disaster fund may only be used to fund
services and activities of the city in response to:
         a.   A declared disaster within the city's boundaries;
         b.   The aftermath of the disaster that gave rise to a declared
disaster within the city's boundaries; and
         c.   "Emergency preparedness" as defined in section 53-2-402 of the
Utah state disaster recovery funding act as amended, except that not more than
ten percent (10%) of monies budgeted to be deposited in a given fiscal year may
be spent on emergency preparedness during that same fiscal year. (Ord. 2009-12,
11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-20, 629-2022)
CHAPTER 3
PURCHASING POLICY
SECTION:
2-3-1: General Provisions
2-3-2: Contract Validity And Execution
2-3-3: Purchasing Administration
2-3-4: Standards For Purchasing
2-3-5: Bidding Procedures
2-3-6: Exception To Bidding Requirements
2-3-7: Lowest Responsible Bidder
2-3-8: Appeals And Remedies
2-3-9: Emergency Purchases
2-3-10: Insurance And Bonds
2-3-11: Public Record
2-3-12: Interlocal Cooperation
2-3-13: Prohibited Acts And Activities
2-3-14: Penalty
2-3-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the fair and
equitable treatment of all persons involved in public purchasing by Clearfield
City Corporation (“city”), to maximize the purchasing value of public funds in
procurement, and to provide safeguards for maintaining a procurement system of
quality and integrity.
   B.   Application: This chapter applies to agreements for the procurement of
supplies, services, equipment, and construction, entered into by the city after
the effective date hereof, unless the parties agree in writing to its
application to agreements entered into prior to the effective date hereof. It
shall apply to every expenditure of public funds by the city for public
purchasing irrespective of the source of the funds. When the procurement
involves the expenditure of federal assistance or agreement funds, the
procurement shall be conducted in accordance with any mandatory applicable
federal law and regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any public
agency from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant, gift, or
bequest that is otherwise consistent with law.
   C.   Exemptions: When a procurement involves the expenditures of state or
federal assistance funds, the city shall comply with applicable state and
federal laws and regulations. This policy shall not apply to the purchase or
other acquisition of real property, which shall be governed by Title 1, Chapter
12A of this code. This policy shall not prevent the city from complying with
the terms and conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise
consistent with the law. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-2: CONTRACT VALIDITY AND EXECUTION:
   A.   No liability against the city may be created and no expenditure of
public funds may be made which is not for a public purpose.
   B.   No contract may become valid or is binding against the City until:
      1.   The contract has been reduced to writing;
      2.   The city has received notice from its chief financial officer that
funds are lawfully available within budgeted appropriations to fulfill the
city’s financial obligations thereunder;
      3.   Where certifications and compliance with federal contract or grant
assurances are required, the documents are approved as to form by a city
attorney;
      4.   The contract has been administered by the purchasing manager and
fully complies with the city’s purchasing requirements;
      5.   The contract has been reviewed and approved as to form by a city
attorney and executed by the mayor or, where authorized, by the city manager or
a department head; and
      6.   The signature of the mayor has been attested by the city recorder
or, if signed by the city manager or department head, the signature has been
countersigned by the city recorder. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-3: PURCHASING ADMINISTRATION:
The chief financial officer shall have the responsibility for the purchasing
activities of the city and its various departments. The duties and powers
regarding purchasing shall include the following:
   A.   Establish and maintain purchasing policies and processes, including the
review and approval of purchase requisitions, issue purchase orders, review
contracts for the acquisitions of supplies, services, and equipment and
administer charge cards.
   B.   Provide the transfer of surplus or unused supplies and equipment
between departments wherever it can be done effectively.
   C.   Review and maintain records and forms related to all purchasing
activities.
   D.   Pursuant to subsection
1-12A-1 and
1-12B-1, Disposal of Surplus Property, provide for the disposal of surplus or
unused supplies and equipment that cannot be utilized by the city, but which
has residual value, except where such property has either a fixed cost or a
unique value, in which case disposal may be by negotiated sale.
   E.   Review requisitions or estimates of a department’s requirements for
supplies and contractual services as to quantity, quality, or estimated cost,
whenever revision is approved by the city manager and department head and
determined to be in the best interest of the city. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-4: STANDARDS FOR PURCHASING:
   A.   Budget Itemized Purchase Authority: For those purchases of supplies,
equipment, professional services, consultants, and construction projects
specifically included and detailed within the city’s lawfully adopted budget,
the individual authorized purchasing authority is as follows:
      1.   Division Managers: A division manager that is designated by the
department head and approved by the chief financial officer may authorize
purchases up to $5,000. Sufficient effort should be made on all purchases,
regardless of cost, to determine the best value before any purchase is
initiated.
      2.   Department Heads: A department head that is designated by the city
manager and approved by the chief financial officer may authorize purchases up
to $25,000. Sufficient effort should be made on all purchases, regardless of
cost, to determine the best value before any purchase is initiated. A written
agreement is required for contractual services or if the purchases require
customization, have unique design criteria, or special terms and conditions.
      3.   City Manager: The city manager, after providing notice of intent to
the chief financial officer, may authorize purchases over $25,000. Sufficient
effort should be made on all purchases, regardless of cost, to determine the
best value before any purchase is initiated. A written agreement is required
for contractual services or if the purchases require customization, have unique
design criteria, or special terms and conditions. Unless directed differently
by the majority of the city council in a public meeting, the signature of the
Mayor is required on all written agreements for contractual services over
$100,000.
   B.   Non-Budgeted Purchases: Except for incidental purchases consistent with
regular operations and those limited unique circumstances outlined within this
Chapter, no purchase shall be made for supplies, equipment, professional
services, consultants, and construction projects not specifically included and
detailed within the city’s lawfully adopted budget.
   C.   Bids Not Required for Certain Work: It is the policy of the city to
reserve itself all legal prerogatives to perform services and work with its own
personnel and equipment; therefore, nothing in this article shall be construed
to require bids to be called for or contracts let for conducting, maintaining,
or managing any department, business, or property of the city when it’s in the
public interest for the city to perform the work with its own personnel and
equipment.
   D.   Supplies and Equipment:
      1.   Purchases of supplies, equipment, or contractual services of a value
of $5,000 or less may be made in the open market without formal bidding
procedures and without a written agreement except as provided in this section.
Sufficient effort should be made on all purchases, regardless of cost, to
determine the best value before any purchase is initiated.
      2.   Purchases of supplies, equipment, or contractual services of a value
greater than $5,000 but less than $100,000 requires at least three (3) written
price quotes and shall be obtained prior to the purchasing of supplies,
equipment, or contractual services. A record of all written quotes shall be
attached to the purchase requisition. A written agreement is required for
contractual services or if the purchases require customization, have unique
design criteria, or special terms and conditions.
      3.   Purchases of supplies, equipment, or contractual services of a value
greater than $100,000 shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder as
described in
2-3-7  of this chapter pursuant to the formal bidding procedures. A written
agreement is required for contractual services or if the purchases require
customization, have unique design criteria, or special terms and conditions.
Unless directed differently by the majority of the city council in a public
meeting, the signature of the Mayor is required on all written agreements for
contractual services over $100,000.
      4.   Value amounts used herein refer to both unit cost and combined
multiple unit cost. The estimated value shall be determined by the department
authorized signer, after review of the pertinent requisition and
specifications, in order to determine the applicable bidding procedure. The
chief financial officer shall have the authority to waive the requirement to
obtain written price quotes in such circumstances that are not cost effective
or advantageous to the city.
   E.   Professional Services, Consultants and Construction Projects:
      1.   Contracts for professional services and construction projects
estimated to value $50,000 or less may be made in the open market without
formal bidding procedures.
      2.   Contracts for professional services and construction projects
estimated to value greater than $50,000 but less than $100,000 require at least
three (3) written price quotes and shall be obtained prior to beginning the
project. A record of all written quotes shall be attached to the purchase
requisition. A written agreement is required for contractual services.
      3.   Contracts for professional services and construction projects of a
value greater than $100,000 shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder
pursuant to the formal bidding procedures. A written agreement is required for
contractual services or if the purchases require customization, have unique
design criteria, or special terms and conditions. Unless directed differently
by the majority of the city council in a public meeting, the signature of the
Mayor is required on all written agreements for contractual services over
$100,000.
      4.   Except for maintenance and improvement projects performed by city
personnel, all construction projects estimated by the city engineer, or other
appropriate party to have a value more than $100,000, or where required by
state law, shall be advertised for bid and awarded to the lowest responsible
bidder as described in
2-3-7  of this chapter, pursuant to the procedure hereinafter prescribed. All
such contract awards shall be made by written contract as provided in section
2-3-2 , Contract Validity and Execution, and shall comply with the insurance
and bonding provisions of this article. Unless directed differently by the
majority of the city council in a public meeting, the signature of the Mayor is
required on all written agreements for contractual services over $100,000.
   E.   Refusal to Receive Bids: The city may preclude contractors or suppliers
from submitting bids where said proposed bidder has not completely satisfied
prior notices to comply with construction documents, drawings and/or other
specifications, or has otherwise failed to perform any work for the city or the
state in a timely or satisfactory manner. The contractor or supplier may appeal
the city’s decision to refuse bids from a specific contractor or supplier by
filing a written notice of appeal within five (5) days of service of the notice
of refusal. The appeal shall be filed with the chief financial officer. An
informal administrative hearing shall be held within fifteen (15) days. The
hearing shall be conducted and decided by the city manager and two (2)
department heads. Their decision shall be final. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022; amd.
Ord. 2022-30, 10-25-2022)
2-3-5: BIDDING PROCEDURES:
Where formal bidding is required, the lowest responsible bidder shall be
determined using the following procedures:
   A.   Invitation for Bids: Notice inviting bids shall include a general
description of the articles or services to be purchased, advise where bid forms
and specifications are available, and state the process for submitting a bid.
Notice for bids shall be posted in accordance with Utah State Code.
   B.   Bid Opening: Sealed bids shall be submitted as designated in the notice
with the statement “bid for (item)” on the envelope.
      1.   Bids shall be opened:
         a.   In public in the presence of a witness at the time and place
stated in the notice; or
         b.   In an electronic bid opening process where bidders may see the
opening of the bid.
      2.   A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted for public
inspection for a period of not less than thirty (30) days after the bid
opening.
   C.   Rejection of Bids: The City Council shall have the authority to reject
all bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one (1) or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the lowest
responsible bid exceeds available funds as certified by the appropriate city
officer by more than five percent (5%), or when the public interest will be
served thereby, and when permitted by law. Where a bid exceeds available funds
and time or economic considerations preclude re-solicitation of work or
purchase of a reduced scope or quantity, the purchasing manager may negotiate
with the lowest responsible bidder for an adjustment of the bid price,
including changes in the bid requirements, to bring the low bid within the
amount of available funds.
   D.   Tie Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, with quality and service being equivalent, and if the
public interest will not permit the delay of readvertising for bids, the City
shall accept the lowest bid made after negotiation with the tie bidders or
after the time of the bid opening.
   E.   Award of Contracts: Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder as provided in this Chapter.
   F.   Change Orders:
      1.   All change orders within the approved contingency of the contract
award shall be approved by the department head, and then submitted to the chief
financial officer prior to any payment.
      2.   Any exception to the above shall be approved by the city council.
(Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-6: EXCEPTIONS TO BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Uniqueness: Contracts which by their nature are not adapted to an award
by competitive bidding, such as contracts for items available from a 1) single
source only, 2) contracts for repair and maintenance of equipment already owned
by the city which may be most efficiently performed by the originator of the
equipment or its agent, 3) contracts for the purchase of used equipment or
items that are unique as to quality, condition and price, or 4) contracts for a
particular brand of equipment or product which is uniquely suited to the city’s
needs by reason of training of its personnel or compatibility with existing
equipment, shall not be subject to the competitive bidding requirement.
Whenever it is reasonable to do so, the city shall advertise in the same manner
as provided in section
2-3-5, Invitations for Bids of this article, and request proposals prior to the
purchase of items stated herein.
   B.   General Waiver: The chief financial officer may authorize a waiver of
the bidding procedures outlined herein, only where appropriate. Waiver of such
procedures requires the city manager’s approval if the purchase exceeds
$25,000.
   C.   Auctions, Closeouts, Bankruptcy Sales: If the city manager determines
that supplies, materials, or equipment can be purchased at any public auction,
closeout sale, bankruptcy, foreclosure, or other similar sale at a cost below
the market cost in the city, the purchase may be made without complying with
the competitive bidding requirements of this article if otherwise allowed by
law.
   D.   Cooperative Agreements: Contracts available to municipalities that have
been previously solicited by state and national cooperatives may be utilized.
All cooperative contracts are subject to approval by the purchasing manager.
   E.   Assumption of External Bid: If the city manager determines that
supplies, materials, or equipment purchased by another governmental entity has
been made through a competitive bidding process for the same or similar
supplies, materials, or equipment, the purchase may, if made within ninety (90)
days of said other governmental entity purchase, be made without complying with
the competitive bidding requirements of this article if otherwise allowed by
law. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-7: LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER:
   A.   Considerations: In awarding to the lowest responsible bidder, the city
shall consider, in addition to price:
      1.   The quality of the supplies offered.
      2.   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the supplies or service required.
      3.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the supplies
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference.
      4.   The sufficiency of the bidder’s financial resources and the effect
thereof on their ability to perform the contract or provide the supplies or
services.
      5.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgement, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder.
      6.   The quality of the bidder’s performance on previous orders or
contracts for the city or others.
      7.   Litigation by or against the bidder, either pending or threatened,
where claim is made that the bidder provided or furnished materially defective
workmanship or materials to the city or failed to substantially comply with bid
specifications or contract terms and conditions.
      8.   Any previous or existing noncompliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances of the city relating directly or indirectly to the subject of the
contract.
      9.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service,
where such maintenance and service is essential.
      10.   Possession or ability to obtain all necessary city and state
licenses either at the time of bid or before doing business with the city, as
specified by the contracting agent.
      11.   A statement by bidder of all subcontractors he will use who may do
or supply ten percent (10%) or more of the total contract being awarded, or a
willingness to supply such listing of subcontractors at the time of bid award.
   B.   Award to Other than Lowest Bidder: When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a statement of the reasons therefor shall be presented by the
department head involved, sent to and approved by the city manager and city
attorney and filed with the chief financial officer along with any other papers
related to the transaction. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-8: APPEALS AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Procurement Protests:
      1.   Any actual or prospective bidder or offeror who is aggrieved in
connection with the solicitation or award of a contract for procurement may
protest the procurement by filing a written protest with the chief financial
officer. The protest shall contain the following information:
         a.   The protesting party’s name, mailing address and daytime
telephone number, the signature of the protesting party or the attorney for the
protesting party, and the date the protest is signed; and
         b.   The relief sought, a statement of facts and a recitation of the
reasons and legal authority in support of the protest sufficient to permit
review.
      2.   Any protests concerning a competitive sealed bid shall be submitted
prior to the closing date for receiving bids or proposals unless the protestor
did not know and could not reasonably have known of the facts giving rise to
the protest prior to such time, but in any event, all such protests shall be
submitted within five (5) business days after the closing date for receiving
bids or proposals.
      3.   Any protest concerning a request for proposals shall be submitted
within five (5) business days after the city has issued its notice to award a
contract.
      4.   The city may proceed with the procurement except that the chief
financial officer, or designee, may suspend the procurement process for so long
as he or she determines is appropriate.
      5.   The chief financial officer may designate another individual to
assist in reviewing the matter, which assistance may include finding facts,
analyzing the protest, and making recommendations to the chief financial
officer.
      6.   The chief financial officer, or designee, the chief financial
officer’s designated representative may request additional information from the
protesting party or from other persons to make a determination. The protesting
party shall provide all information requested by the chief financial officer,
or designee, reasonably needed to decide the protest except information which
is protected from disclosure by law, or which could reasonably be expected to
result in unfair competitive injury to the protestor in spite of the
protections for the protestor provided by law, including the Utah government
records access and management act, Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-202 et
seq.
      7.   The chief financial officer, or designee, shall review and decide
protests, and shall issue a written determination to the protesting party
within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of the protest.
      8.   The protesting party may appeal the written decision of the chief
financial officer, or designee, by filing a written appeal with the city
manager within five (5) business days of the chief financial officer’s written
determination. The notice of appeal shall contain the following information:
         a.   The petitioner’s name, mailing address and daytime telephone
number, the signature of the petitioner or of the attorney for the petitioner,
and date; and
         b.   The relief sought, a statement of facts and a recitation of the
reasons and legal authority in support of the protest sufficient to permit
review.
      9.   The city manager shall review and hear the appeal. No later than
five (5) business days after receiving a notice of appeal, the city manager
shall schedule a hearing on the appeal. Unless otherwise agreed to by the city
and the petitioner, the hearing shall be held no sooner than five (5) business
days and not later than thirty (30) business days from the date of the filing
of the appeal.
      10.   At the hearing before the city manager, the appellant and the
city’s representative shall be allowed to testify, present evidence, and
comment on the issues. The city manager may allow other interested persons to
testify, comment or provide evidence on the issues.
      11.   No later than fifteen (15) business days after the hearing, the
city manager shall issue a signed order either granting the petition in whole
or in part, or upholding the determination of the chief financial officer, or
designee, in whole or in part. The order of the city manager shall include:
         a.   The decision, and any reasons for the decision the city manager
may wish to provide; and
         b.   A statement that any party to the appeal may appeal the decision
to the state district court.
      12.   If the city manager fails to issue a decision within fifteen (15)
business days after the hearing, said failure shall be considered the
equivalent of an order denying the appeal.
      13.   The city manager may appoint a person other than the chief
financial officer to fulfill his or her respective responsibilities described
in this section.
   B.   Agreement Claims:
      1.   Decision of the Chief Financial Officer: All claims by a contractor
against the city relating to an agreement, except bid or proposal protests,
shall be submitted in writing to the chief financial officer, or designee, for
a decision. The contractor may request a conference with the chief financial
officer, or designee, on the claim. Claims include, without limitation,
disputes arising under an agreement, and those based upon breach of agreement,
mistake, misrepresentation, or other cause for agreement modification or
decision.
      2.   Notice to the Contractor of the Chief Financial Officer’s Decision:
The decision of the chief financial officer, or designee, shall be promptly
issued in writing, and shall be immediately mailed or otherwise furnished to
the contractor. The decision shall state the reasons for the decision reached
and shall inform the contractor of its appeal rights under subsection B3 of
this section.
      3.   Finality of the Chief Financial Officer’s Decision; Contractor’s
Right to Appeal: The chief financial officer’s decision shall be final and
conclusive unless, within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of receipt
of the decision, the contractor mails or otherwise delivers a written appeal to
the city manager, or commences an action pursuant to the Utah Governmental
Immunity Act, Utah Code Annotated section 63G-7-101 et seq.
      4.   Failure to Render Timely Decision: If the chief financial officer,
or designee, does not issue a written decision regarding any agreement
controversy within thirty (30) days after written request for a final decision,
or within such longer period as may be agreed upon between the parties, then
the aggrieved party may proceed as if an adverse decision had been received.
   C.   Authority of the Chief Financial Officer to Settle Bid Protests and
Agreement Claims: The chief financial officer, or designee, after consulting
with the city attorney, is authorized to settle any protest regarding the
solicitation or award of a city agreement, or any claim arising out of the
performance of a city agreement, prior to an appeal to the city manager, or the
commencement of an action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Remedies for Solicitations or Awards in Violation of Law:
      1.   Prior to Bid Opening or Closing Date for Receipt of Proposals: If
prior to the bid opening or the closing date for receipt of proposals, the
chief financial officer, or designee, after consultation with the city
attorney, determines that a solicitation may be in violation of federal, state,
or local law, then the solicitation or proposed award shall be canceled or
revised to comply with applicable law.
      2.   Prior to Award: If after a bid opening or the closing date for
receipt of proposals, the chief financial officer, or designee, after
consultation with the city attorney, determines that a solicitation or a
proposed award of an agreement may be in violation of federal, state, or local
law, then the solicitation or proposed award shall be canceled.
      3.   After Award: If, after an award, the chief financial officer, or
designee, after consultation with the city attorney, determines that a
solicitation or award of an agreement that may have been in violation of
applicable law, then:
         a.   If the person awarded the agreement has not acted fraudulently or
in bad faith, the agreement may be ratified and affirmed, provided it is
determined that doing so is in the best interests of the city; or
         b.   If the person awarded the agreement has acted fraudulently or in
bad faith the agreement may be declared null and void or voidable, if such
action is in the best interests of the city. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-9: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
In case of an actual or apparent emergency which requires immediate procurement
of supplies or contractual services, the affected department head may approve
acquisition at the lowest attainable price without further compliance with the
procedures provided herein. In such event, however, a full report of the
circumstances of the emergency purchase shall be filed by the chief financial
officer with the city manager. Upon approval of the city manager, the report
will be filed with the chief financial officer and shall be open to public
inspection. An “emergency” is any fact, circumstance, or situation which
threatens injury or damage as the result of any happening or circumstance which
would delay the work of the city in such manner as to vitally affect life,
health, or convenience of the public. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-10: INSURANCE AND BONDS:
   A.   General Requirements: When directed by the City Council, city manager,
or chief financial officer, or when required by state statute or city
ordinance, insurance certificates and/or bonds, whether permit, bid,
performance, maintenance, or materialmen, shall be provided by a party
contracting with the city to the chief financial officer in a form approved by
the city attorney and in amounts recommended by the department head affected
and the city attorney, and approved by the city manager. Such bonds or
insurance shall: (1) name the city as an additional insured; (2) be cancelable;
provided, that no cancellation thereof may be made without first giving the
city at least ten (10) days’ prior written notice; and (3) be in sums
sufficient to fully protect the city and its interests. All corporate
guarantors or sureties shall be licensed to do business in the state and shall
be sound and reputable firms, as determined acceptable by the city attorney.
   B.   Bid Security:
      1.   Bid security in an amount equal to at least five percent (5%) of the
amount of the bid shall be required for all competitive sealed bidding for
construction contracts where the total value of the contract is more than
$50,000. Bid security shall be a bond provided by a surety company authorized
to do business in this state, the equivalent in cash, or any other form
satisfactory to the city.
      2.   When a bidder fails to comply with the requirement for bid security
set forth in the invitation for bids, the bids shall be rejected unless it is
determined that the failure to comply with the security requirements is
nonsubstantial.
      3.   After the bids are opened, they shall be irrevocable for the period
specified in the invitation for bids, except as provided below. If a bidder is
permitted to withdraw a bid before award, no action shall be taken against the
bidder or bid security.
      4.   If after being accepted the bid fails, the bid security bond shall
be forfeited unless there has been a mistake in the bid of such consequence as
to make it apparent that:
         a.   A meeting of the minds never occurred and that enforcement of the
contract would be unconscionable;
         b.   Where the mistake related to a material feature of the contract;
         c.   Where the mistake does not constitute culpable negligence or
violation of a positive legal duty;
         d.   Where the city has been placed in status quo so that it suffers
no serious prejudice; or e) in such other circumstances as determined by the
City Council.
   C.   Performance Bonds:
      1.   The contractor on a project to construct public improvements shall
be required to post a performance bond, a payment bond, and a maintenance bond;
provided, however, that if the estimated construction cost is under $50,000, or
if, in the opinion of the City Council, the cost of requiring the bond will
exceed the risk or benefit to the city, the city may waive the performance bond
requirement, provided other arrangements are made to assure that laborers and
materialmen on the project will be paid in full.
      2.   The chief financial officer shall have the authority to require a
performance bond before a contract is entered into to purchase or acquire
supplies or services, in such amount as may be reasonably necessary to protect
the best interest of the city. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-11: PUBLIC RECORD:
The statements of reason for rejection of a low bid as provided in subsection
2-3-8C of this article, the reasons for an emergency purchase made pursuant to
section
2-3-12, Emergency Purchases of this article, any waiver pursuant to subsection
2-3-3B of this article, and any estimate of the cost of public construction
work made by the city engineer pursuant to subsection
2-3-4E of this article, where the estimate exceeds $5,000, shall become a part
of the official records of the city and shall be made available to the public
upon request. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-12: INTERLOCAL COOPERATION:
Wherever the public benefit can be maximized, and costs minimized by entering
into joint agreements with other public agencies within the state for the
purchase or construction of any commodity, service, or public work, the city
shall have the power to so agree upon pursuant to the Utah Interlocal
Cooperation Act, Utah State Code Ann. § 11-13-101, et. seq, as amended. (Ord.
2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-13: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid the requirements of this
article.
It shall be unlawful for any officer, agent, or employee of the city, or any
outside party or entity dealing or seeking to deal with the city to engage in
any of the following practices:
   A.   Collusion or other agreement among bidders or prospective bidders, in
restraint of freedom or competition, to fix or in any way rig prices or bids.
In addition, any bid tainted with such collusion shall be voidable at the
option of the city.
   B.   Disclosure in advance of the opening of bids of the amount or content
of one bid to another bidder or potential bidder. If such disclosure is deemed
sufficiently material by the city manager, it shall void the bidding process
and require a new advertisement or request for bids.
   C.   Purchase of supplies or equipment for the personal use of an officer,
agent, or employee of the city in the name of the city, whether part of a city
purchase or contract or separate, and whether paid for with city funds or
personal funds of the purchaser. Sole exception shall be where the item or
items purchased are required parts of a worker’s equipment or uniform and
necessary to the successful performance of his duties as a city officer or
employee, although personally owned by him. (Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
2-3-14: PENALTY:
The penalty for actions made unlawful by this article shall be a class B
misdemeanor or infraction, in the discretion of the charging city attorney,
unless those actions involve conduct which would be a felony under the laws of
the state, in which event the county or state may so charge the offense.
Conviction of the offense, other than a felony offense, shall subject the
violator to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of the Clearfield City Municipal Code.
Imposition of a criminal penalty shall not affect the city’s right to take
administrative action regarding an employee, impose sanctions against a
contractor or purchaser such as a refusal to deal with him further, or avail
itself of any other right which it may have by law or otherwise. (Ord. 2022-20,
6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 4
CITY DONATIONS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Purpose
2-4-2: Net Value
2-4-3: Criteria
2-4-4: Intangible Benefits
2-4-5: Public Hearing
2-4-6: Study Required
2-4-7: Exemption
2-4-8: Appeals
2-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is considered a Clearfield City purpose to appropriate money for any purpose
that, in the judgment of the City Council, provides for the safety, health,
prosperity, moral well being, peace, order, comfort, or convenience of the
inhabitants of the City subject to the following sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-13, 9-26-2006)
2-4-2: NET VALUE:
The net value received for any money appropriated shall be measured on a
project by project basis over the life of the project. (Ord. 2006-13, 9-26-
2006)
2-4-3: CRITERIA:
The criteria for a determination under this section shall be established by the
City Council. A determination of value received, made by the City Council,
shall be presumed valid unless it can be shown that the determination was
arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. (Ord. 2006-13, 9-26-2006)
2-4-4: INTANGIBLE BENEFITS:
The City may consider intangible benefits received by the City in determining
net value received. (Ord. 2006-13, 9-26-2006)
2-4-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
Except those donations that qualify as exempt pursuant to section
2-4-7 of this chapter, prior to the City Council making any decision to
appropriate any funds for a purpose under this section, a public hearing shall
be held. Notice of the hearing shall be published on the Utah Public Notice
Website, the City’s website and in three public places at least fourteen (14)
days prior to the date of the hearing, or, if there is no newspaper of general
circulation, by posting notice in at least three (3) conspicuous places within
the city for the same time period. (Ord. 2019-08, 3-12-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-14,
6-14-2022)
2-4-6: STUDY REQUIRED:
Except those donations that qualify as exempt pursuant to section
2-4-7 of this chapter, a study shall be performed before notice of the public
hearing is given and shall be made available at the City for review by
interested parties at least fourteen (14) days immediately prior to the public
hearing, setting forth an analysis and demonstrating the purpose for the
appropriation. In making the study, the following factors shall be considered:
   A.   What identified benefit the City will receive in return for any money
or resources appropriated;
   B.   The City's purpose for the appropriation, including an analysis of the
way the appropriation will be used to enhance the safety, health, prosperity,
moral well being, peace, order, comfort, or convenience of the inhabitants of
the City; and
   C.   Whether the appropriation is necessary and appropriate to accomplish
the reasonable goals and objectives of the City in the area of economic
development, job creation, affordable housing, blight elimination, job
preservation, the preservation of historic structures and property, and any
other public purpose. (Ord. 2019-08, 3-12-2019)
2-4-7: EXEMPTION:
A donation that is included in a final adopted budget that is made pursuant to
the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act, title 10, chapter 6, Utah Code Annotated,
which includes the name or other specific description of the donation shall be
deemed to have been given the consideration and a public hearing as described
above, and thus exempt of the required public hearing and study outlined in
sections
2-4-5 and
2-4-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-08, 3-12-2019)
2-4-8: APPEALS:
An appeal may be taken from a final decision of the City Council, to make an
appropriation. The appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the date
of that decision, to the District Court. Any appeal shall be based on the
record of the proceedings before the legislative body. A decision of the City
Council shall be presumed to be valid unless the appealing party shows that the
decision was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. (Ord. 2006-13, 9-26-2006; amd.
Ord. 2019-08, 3-12-2019)
CHAPTER 5
CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
2-5-1: Fee Schedule Adopted
2-5-1: FEE SCHEDULE ADOPTED:
The Consolidated Fee Schedule, as set forth in Ordinance 2019-17, passed 6-25-
2019, and any amendments thereto, are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein. The Consolidated Fee Schedule is
available during normal business hours upon request from the city. The Fee
Schedule is publically available in electronic format at:
https://clearfield.city/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Adopted-Consolidated-Fee-
Schedule-072523.pdf
(Ord. 2019-17, 6-25-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-25, 9-10-2019; Ord. 2021-17, 11-23-
2021; Ord. 2022-10, 5-3-2022; Ord. 2022-19, 6-28-2022; Ord. 2023-13, 7-25-2023)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Imposing Fees Or Levying Taxes; Eligibility
3-1-1: IMPOSING FEES OR LEVYING TAXES; ELIGIBILITY:
   A.   A person filling a position representing the city on a board or
district which has the power to impose fees or to levy taxes shall be an
incumbent mayor, member of the city council, or other qualified current
resident of the city pursuant to title 17B, chapter 1 of Utah code, as amended.
      1.   Such appointments shall be made by resolution of the city council.
      2.   The term of office for such appointees shall be designated by the
city council upon the appointment and shall comply with state statutes.
However, subject to state law, at any time prior to the expiration of such an
appointment, appointees may be removed for cause by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of
the city council.
      3.   The city council may appoint an alternate to attend said board or
district meetings when the meetings of the board or district are in conflict
with other scheduled city meetings. (Ord. 2008-07, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Created; Membership
3-2-2: Term Of Office; Vacancy
3-2-3: Qualifications; Oath Of Office
3-2-4: Compensation
3-2-5: Powers And Duties
3-2-6: Chairperson; Rules And Regulations
3-2-7: Quorum; Record Of Proceedings
3-2-8: Removal For Cause
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-9-201 et seq.
3-2-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
Pursuant to the provisions of state law, there is hereby created a planning
commission for the city. The planning commission shall consist of seven (7)
members and up to three (3) alternate members, to be appointed by the mayor,
with the advice and consent of the city council, from the duly qualified
electors of the city. (Ord. 2014-01, 2-11-2014)
3-2-2: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY:
Each member shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years with no more than
two (2) members' terms expiring during any one year. Any vacancy occurring
during the term of any member of the planning commission by reason of death,
resignation, removal or disqualification, shall be promptly filled by the city
council for the unexpired portion of the term. (Ord. 85-01, 1-22-1985; amd.
2000 Code)
3-2-3: QUALIFICATIONS; OATH OF OFFICE:
A member of the planning commission must be a qualified elector of the city and
shall qualify by taking, subscribing and filing with the city recorder the oath
of office required by the constitution of the state. (1966 Code § 3-1-2)
3-2-4: COMPENSATION:
The remuneration paid to members of the planning commission (per meeting which
the member attends) shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) and the chair of the
planning commission (per meeting which the chair attends) shall be seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for their services rendered. Upon approval of the city
council, members may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses actually incurred.
(Ord. 2012-12, 10-23-2012)
3-2-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General Plan:
      1.   Preparation: It shall be the function and duty of the planning
commission to prepare and submit to the city council for its approval, a
general plan for the physical development of the city, including other areas
outside of its boundaries which, in the planning commission's judgment, bear
relation to the planning of the city. The planning commission may, from time to
time, amend, extend or add to the general plan, or carry any part or subject
matter into greater detail. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with Utah
code title 10, chapter 9a, as amended.
      2.   Surveys And Studies: In preparing the general plan, the planning
commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of the
existing conditions and probable future growth of the city and its environs.
The plan shall be made with a general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the city in accordance with
existing and future needs.
      3.   Reports And Recommendations: The planning commission may make
reports and recommendations relating to the plan and development of the city to
public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional and other organizations and citizens. In general, the planning
commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform
its functions and promote municipal planning. (Ord. 2008-07, 9-9-2008, eff. 10-
1-2008)
   B.   Zoning:
      1.   Recommendations For Changes: The planning commission, through its
own initiative, may, or by order of the city council shall, make
recommendations for changes in the zoning map or in the text of the zoning and
planning provisions of this code and shall have all powers granted by law or by
these provisions in the preparation of zoning maps and the recommendations for
zoning in the city.
      2.   City Council Action: After receiving the recommendations of the
planning commission, the city council may amend the zoning map and/or the
zoning or planning regulations. No substantial change shall be made in said
amendment as recommended by the planning commission, unless the same shall be
resubmitted to the planning commission, which shall be returned to the city
council within thirty (30) days.
   C.   Subdivisions: It shall be the duty of the planning commission to review
and approve, or disapprove, all subdivisions of land. No plat of a subdivision
or land lying within the city shall be filed or recorded in the county
recorder's office until it shall have been submitted to and approved by the
planning commission and city council, and such approval entered in writing on
the plat by the chairperson of the planning commission and the mayor for the
city council, or other designated members or employees. (1966 Code § 3-1-5)
3-2-6: CHAIRPERSON; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The planning commission shall elect from its membership a chairperson and shall
adopt rules and regulations, subject to the provisions of the laws of the state
and the zoning and planning regulations of the city to provide for the
regulation of its procedure and the conduct of its duties, and may amend such
rules from time to time. All such rules and amendments shall be reduced to
writing and shall be filed with the city recorder. (1966 Code § 3-1-7)
3-2-7: QUORUM; RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Quorum: At least four (4) members of the planning commission must be
present to constitute a quorum to conduct any official business of the planning
commission. (1966 Code § 3-1-6)
   B.   Minutes: The planning commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings
in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-203, which shall be filed
with the city recorder. (Ord. 2006-17, 10-24-2006)
3-2-8: REMOVAL FOR CAUSE:
The city council may remove any member of the planning commission for cause,
after a public hearing, upon written charges. After three (3) consecutive
unexcused absences, such member of the planning commission will automatically
forfeit his position and shall thereafter be replaced. (1966 Code § 3-1-3; amd.
2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-3-1: Created; Membership
3-3-2: Term Of Office; Vacancy
3-3-3: Compensation
3-3-4: Duties And Responsibilities
3-3-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby created the parks and recreation commission. Members of the
parks and recreation commission will be made up of volunteer residents. The
parks and recreation commission shall consist of not less than five (5)
members. Additional members as deemed necessary may be authorized by the city
council upon recommendation of the parks and recreation commission and the
community services director. (Ord. 2014-11, 4-22-2014)
3-3-2: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCY:
New members and replacement members of the parks and recreation commission
shall be appointed by the city council according to the following procedure:
Commission members shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent
of the city council, with a term of appointment to begin January 1 for a period
of three (3) consecutive years with not more than one-third (1/3) of the
commission members' terms to expire each year. The parks and recreation
commission shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson for a one year
term. The parks and recreation commission will meet at the request of the
chairperson on a regular basis or may meet from time to time for special
meetings as required. If a commission member is absent from three (3)
consecutive meetings, that member's position may be declared vacant. Vacancies
which may occur in due course shall be filled in like manner for the unexpired
portion of the term. (Ord. 2014-11, 4-22-2014)
3-3-3: COMPENSATION:
The remuneration paid to members of the parks and recreation commission (per
official commission meeting which the member attends) shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) and the chair of the parks and recreation commission (per meeting
which the chair attends) shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00) for their
services rendered. Members may also be reimbursed for reasonable expenses
actually incurred. (Ord. 2014-11, 4-22-2014)
3-3-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The duties and responsibilities of the parks and recreation commission shall
be:
   A.   Advisory Capacity: Act in an advisory capacity to the city council in
policy matters pertaining to park and recreation needs of the city.
   B.   Consideration And Recommendations: Consider such matters as are
referred by the city council or the community services department staff and
make the appropriate recommendations as it may be deemed advisable by the
commission, keeping in mind that the adoption of policy is the prerogative of
the city council.
   C.   Liaison: Act as liaison between citizens of the city and the community
services department for the purpose of presenting problems, suggestions and
recommendations.
   D.   Promotion Of Programs: Assist in promoting public recreation programs
and to stimulate public interest therein.
   E.   Long Range Plan: Prepare, review and revise annually or as may be
necessary a comprehensive long range plan for parks and recreation.
   F.   Obtain Volunteers: Assist in obtaining volunteers for park and
recreation programs. Take an active role as a program participant.
   G.   Encouragement: Encourage individuals and citizens' groups to give
funds, property and manpower for the development and operation of park and
recreation facilities. (Ord. 2014-11, 4-22-2014)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS AND LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Classifications; Privileges
4-1-3: Business License Official
4-1-4: License Required; Exceptions
4-1-5: Application For License
4-1-6: Review And Approval Procedures
4-1-7: Denial Or Revocation
4-1-8: Appeal Of Business License Official's Decision
4-1-9: Fee For License
4-1-10: License Period
4-1-11: Delinquent Date And Late Fee
4-1-12: Rules And Regulations Of License And Licensee
4-1-13: Inspections Of Premises
4-1-14: False Information Prohibited
4-1-15: Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
herein prescribed:
APPLICANT: Any person applying for any license provided for in this title. If
the person is a partnership or corporation, then each partner, officer or
director is considered an applicant and must qualify accordingly.
BASE FEE: The fee determined as the cost to prepare, process and administer the
business license.
BUSINESS: Includes all activities together with any devices, machines or
vehicles used therein for the purpose of gain or economic profit.
CLASS OF BUSINESS: A group of businesses doing similar types of things.
DISPROPORTIONATE COST: The additional cost assessed to businesses that require
a greater level of basic service.
EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary compensation or any other
form of compensation, whether such person is hired on the payroll of the
employer, as an independent contractor, as an agent or in any other form of
employment relationship.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: One act constitutes engaging in business, and includes,
but is not limited to, the sale of tangible personal or real property and the
rendering of personal service for others for a consideration by persons engaged
in craft, business, occupation, hobbies or other calling. Engaging in business
shall also include, but not be limited to, one act of selling of any goods or
services or soliciting business, or offering goods or services for hire.
Engaging in business shall include the occupancy of any office or other space
in which business transactions are carried out. Engaging in business shall also
include the renting by a lessor of space, whether enclosed or not, to be used
as office space for any use or endeavor, including, but not limited to,
commercial, medical, dental, or other professional activities. Engaging in
business shall also include the renting by a lessor of three (3) or more rental
units, buildings, apartments, or houses for the purpose of profit, whether the
units are enclosed within one structure or combination thereof.
ENTITY: Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other lawful entity, organization, society or association.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Those chemicals or substances which are physical hazards or
health hazards in usable or waste condition according to the city's currently
adopted fire code.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any income producing use conducted entirely within a dwelling
unit and carried on only by persons residing in that dwelling unit, which use
is clearly incidental, secondary and compatible to the residential use of the
building. In general, a home occupation is an accessory use so located and
conducted, that the average neighbor, under normal conditions, would be unaware
of its existence.
LICENSEE: Any person who is issued a license under the provisions of this
title.
MINOR: Any person less than eighteen (18) years of age.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: A person or entity engaged in selling food from a temporary
location or mobile structure for a temporary period of time.
NEW BUSINESS: Any activity which results in gain or economic profit which has
not been conducted previously by another licensee on that premises.
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: Any organization which was organized and is operating
for charitable purposes and which meets the requirements of the internal
revenue service of the U.S. department of treasury that exempt the organization
from income taxation under the provisions of the internal revenue code.
PAWNBROKER: Shall have the meaning set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 13,
chapter 32a for pawn and secondhand businesses.
PERSON: An individual, individuals, tenants in common, joint tenants, a
corporation, partnership, firm, limited partnership, or any other association
of individuals, however comprised or designated.
RENTAL DWELLING UNIT: Any individual dwelling unit, parcel of land, or portion
thereof that is rented, loaned, let or hired out to be used or occupied as a
home or residence. Rental dwelling unit includes any single-family home,
duplex, townhome, condominium, mobile home, manufactured home, modular home, or
apartment when used for such purposes.
TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL MERCHANT: A person who sells any nonfood product (i.e.,
flowers, Christmas trees, handcrafted items, etc.) at a temporary location for
a temporary period of time. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-1-2: CLASSIFICATIONS; PRIVILEGES:
   A.   Classifications: Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall be of the following classes:
      1.   General business.
      2.   Temporary or seasonal merchant.
      3.   Beer.
      4.   Sexually oriented business.
      5.   Sexually oriented business employee.
      6.   Consumer fireworks sales.
      7.   Pawnbroker.
      8.   Rental dwelling.
      9.   Solicitor.
      10.   Mobile food vendor. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
      11.   Retail tobacco specialty business. (Ord. 2012-04, 6-12-2012, eff.
7-1-2012)
      12.   Tattoo or body piercing establishment. (Ord. 2013-02, 2-12-2013)
   B.   Privileges:
      1.   General Business License: A general business license shall allow the
licensee to conduct business within the city as prescribed by this title,
including the operation of a home occupation. Additional regulations for home
occupations are set forth in title 11, chapter 16 of this code.
      2.   Temporary Or Seasonal Merchant License: A temporary or seasonal
merchant license shall allow the licensee to engage in the business of selling
nonfood products for a temporary period of time at a temporary location within
the city. A temporary or seasonal merchant's license shall not be required for
merchants participating in a city sponsored event or activity.
      3.   Beer License: A beer license shall allow the licensee to engage in
the business of selling beer within the city pursuant to additional privileges
and regulations for beer licenses as set forth in this chapter and chapter 2 of
this title. A valid general business license is required prior to the issuance
of a beer license.
      4.   Sexually Oriented Business License: A sexually oriented business
license shall allow the licensee to conduct a sexually oriented business within
the city pursuant to additional regulations for sexually oriented business
licenses as set forth in this chapter and chapter 4 of this title.
      5.   Sexually Oriented Business Employee License: A sexually oriented
business employee license shall allow the licensee to be employed by a sexually
oriented business within the city pursuant to additional regulations for
sexually oriented business employee licenses as set forth in this chapter and
chapter 4 of this title.
      6.   Consumer Fireworks Sales License: A consumer fireworks sales license
shall allow the licensee to engage in the business of selling consumer (class
C) fireworks within the city pursuant to additional regulations for fireworks
stand licenses as set forth in this chapter and chapter 5 of this title.
      7.   Pawnbroker License: A pawnbroker license shall allow the licensee to
engage in the business of pawnbroker within the city pursuant to additional
regulations for pawnbroker licenses as set forth in this chapter and chapter 6
of this title.
      8.   Rental Dwelling License: A rental dwelling license shall allow the
licensee to own and/or operate a rental dwelling unit within the city pursuant
to additional regulations for rental dwelling licenses as set forth in this
chapter and chapter 7 of this title.
      9.   Solicitor's License: A solicitor's license shall allow the licensee
to solicit within the city pursuant to additional regulations for solicitors'
licenses set forth in chapter 8 of this title.
      10.   Mobile Food Vendor's License: A mobile food vendor's license shall
allow the licensee to sell food within the city for a temporary period of time
from a temporary location or mobile structure. A mobile food vendor's license
shall not be required for vendors participating in a city sponsored event or
activity. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
      11.   Retail Tobacco Specialty License: A retail tobacco specialty
license shall allow the licensee to conduct business as a retail tobacco
specialty business within the city pursuant to additional regulations set forth
in this chapter, chapter 10 of this title, and title 11 of this code. (Ord.
2012-04, 6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
      12.   Tattoo Or Body Piercing Establishment License: A tattoo or body
piercing license shall allow the licensee to conduct business as a tattoo or
body piercing business within the city pursuant to additional regulations set
forth in this chapter, chapter 11 of this title, and title 11 of this code.
(Ord. 2013-02, 2-12-2013)
4-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE OFFICIAL:
The city shall designate a business license official whose duties shall include
the following:
   A.   Process Applications: To process all applications for business
licenses.
   B.   Collect Fees: To be responsible for collection of all license fees and
any accrued penalties.
   C.   Issue Licenses: To issue licenses in the name of the city to all
persons qualified under the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Enforce Rules And Regulations: To enforce all reasonable rules and
regulations necessary to the operation and enforcement of this chapter.
   E.   Secure Confidential Information: Subject to state and federal law, to
keep all information furnished or secured under the authority of this chapter
in strict confidence. Such information shall not be subject to public
inspection and shall be kept so that the contents thereof shall not be known
except to persons charged with the administration of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-
04, 7-22-2008)
4-1-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Generally: It is unlawful for any person to engage in business within
the city without first obtaining a license as required by this chapter.
   B.   Contractors And Subcontractors: General contractors and subcontractors
who live in the city or have an office in the city either in an office building
or in their home, shall obtain a city business license and shall pay the base
fee required by this chapter.
   C.   Separate License: A separate license must be obtained for each branch
established, or each separate place of business in which the business of the
licensee is engaged. A separate license must be obtained for each business
conducted under the same roof unless conducted through the same books.
   D.   Deliveries Only: A business license will not be required of any company
whose employees enter the city limits only for delivery of goods, such as
flower delivery, parcel delivery, etc.
   E.   Home Occupations: All home occupations shall be required to obtain a
general business license in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Additional regulations for home occupations are set forth in title 11, chapter
16 of this code. The following activities are exempt from the requirement for a
general business license:
      1.   Childcare for children of relatives.
      2.   Newspaper carriers.
      3.   Yard sales/garage sales.
      4.   Youth (minor) neighborhood seasonal work. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-1-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Information Required For Application For License: All applications for
a license shall be made in writing upon the form(s) provided by the city. The
application shall show:
      1.   The name of the business and the date of application.
      2.   The name(s) and signature(s) of the owner(s) of the business and the
applicant requesting said license.
      3.   All vital statistics for the owner(s) of the business and the
applicant as requested on application and required for police background
checks.
      4.   The location where business is to be conducted and the mailing
address of the premises of the business. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
      5.   Proof of business registration through the Utah department of
commerce or Utah division of occupational and professional licensing shall be
required for the following types of businesses: general businesses, home
occupations, alcoholic beverages, sexually oriented businesses, fireworks
sales, pawnbrokers, temporary or seasonal merchants and mobile food vendors.
Childcare providers may obtain a license from the Utah bureau of child health
and safety in lieu of registration with the Utah department of commerce. (Ord.
2011-04, 2-22-2011)
      6.   A Utah sales tax identification number, where applicable.
      7.   A federal employer identification number, where applicable.
      8.   Verification of approval by the Davis County health department, if
applicable.
      9.   Any other information required by ordinance or the city.
   B.   Additional Information Required:
      1.   An application for a beer license shall show the information
required by chapter 2 of this title.
      2.   An application for a temporary or seasonal merchant's license or
mobile food vendor's license shall show the information required by chapter 9
of this title.
      3.   An application for a sexually oriented business or employee license
shall show the information required by chapter 4 of this title.
      4.   An application for a fireworks stand license shall show the
information required by chapter 5 of this title.
      5.   An application for a rental dwelling license shall show the
information required by chapter 7 of this title.
      6.   An application for a solicitor's license shall show the information
required by chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
      7.   An application for a retail tobacco specialty license shall show the
information required by chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 2012-04, 6-12-2012,
eff. 7-1-2012)
4-1-6: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application Review: Upon receiving a complete application for a
license, the business license official shall, upon determining that the
applicant and proposed business are in compliance with all applicable city
ordinances and regulations, make a decision to either approve or deny the
license. In making the decision, the business license official may consider
recommendations from any or all of the following city staff, or their
designees, if necessary:
      1.   The chief of police.
      2.   The planning and zoning administrator.
      3.   The building official.
      4.   The city attorney.
   B.   Notification To Applicant: The applicant shall be notified of the
decision in writing by the business license official.
   C.   Regulations Specific To Sexually Oriented Business And Employee
Licenses: Chapter 4, "Sexually Oriented Businesses And Employees", of this
title, contains additional regulations that shall apply to the review and
approval procedures for an application for a sexually oriented business or
employee license. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-1-7: DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   General Provisions: The business license official may deny an
application for license or revoke a license for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement.
      2.   Violation of this title by failure to comply with any or all of the
provisions of this title.
      3.   Failure to pay any license fee levied when due.
      4.   Failure to comply with any of the requirements imposed by this code.
      5.   Violation of any city ordinance or state or federal statute
concerning pornographic or harmful materials or performances at the licensed
premises.
      6.   Conduct or acts of the licensee or employees, or any act permitted
by them on the premises where such business is conducted, which render the
premises a public nuisance or menace to the health, peace, safety or general
welfare of the city.
      7.   A violation of city ordinance or federal or state statute relating
to the business or activity which is licensed and resulting from the conduct of
such business activity.
      8.   For any other good cause shown.
   B.   Provisions Specific To Beer Licenses And Sexually Oriented Business And
Employee Licenses:
      1.   Chapter 2, "Alcoholic Beverage Control", of this title, contains
additional criteria which may be cause for denial or revocation of a beer
license by the business license official.
      2.   Chapter 4, "Sexually Oriented Businesses And Employees", of this
title, contains additional criteria which may be cause for denial or revocation
of a sexually oriented business or employee license by the business license
official.
   C.   Temporary Suspension: Under the direction of the chief of police, every
peace officer is authorized to temporarily suspend and confiscate any license
issued under this chapter for any violation of this chapter or of the alcoholic
beverage control act. Such temporary suspension shall be reported in writing to
the business license official within seventy two (72) hours, together with a
statement of the reasons thereof. This report, along with the license, shall be
delivered to the business license official who shall then take action with
respect to the revocation of such license, or the restoration thereof. (Ord.
2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-1-8: APPEAL OF BUSINESS LICENSE OFFICIAL'S DECISION:
   A.   Written Appeal: Aggrieved applicants may appeal the decision of the
business license official within ten (10) days of receipt or delivery of said
decision. Appeals shall be filed by a written statement submitted to the city
recorder detailing the grounds upon which the aggrieved applicant is appealing
the business license official's decision. Upon receipt of such an appeal, it
shall be scheduled for a hearing before the designated hearing officer within
twenty (20) days, unless such time is extended for good cause.
   B.   Hearing Required: The hearing officer shall afford the appellant an
opportunity, in a hearing, to show cause as to why the license should not be
denied or revoked.
      1.   Notice: The date, time and place of the hearing shall be fixed by
the city recorder and personal service of the appellant for the notice thereof
shall be attempted. The city recorder must make reasonable steps to ensure the
appellant gets actual notice. The notice shall indicate the purpose of the
hearing and the action contemplated.
      2.   Procedure: At the hearing, the appellant shall have the right to
appear personally or by counsel, to cross examine witnesses, and to produce
evidence and witnesses on his behalf.
      3.   Burden Of Proof: The appellant has the burden of proof.
      4.   Standard Of Review: Legislative decisions shall be valid if
"reasonably debatable" and not illegal. Administrative or quasi- judicial
decisions shall be valid if supported by "substantial evidence" and not
illegal.
      5.   Final Decision On Appeal And Notice Of Action Taken: After such
hearing, the hearing officer will have seven (7) business days, unless extended
for good cause, to issue written "findings, conclusions and recommendation" to
the city council, which will also be provided to the appellant. After due
deliberation upon the hearing officer's findings, conclusions and
recommendation, which may (at the council's discretion) include taking
additional evidence, the city council shall render a final decision on the
appeal by adopting the hearing officer's findings, conclusions and
recommendation, or taking some other action. The city recorder will notify the
appellant in writing of final decision reached by the council. (Ord. 2012-05,
6-26-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
4-1-9: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Administration Fee Levied: For the purpose of regulating costs to the
city and to regulate businesses for compliance to the land use, building and
police codes, there is levied upon every company or person engaging in business
in the city, an administrative base fee, unless covered under exemptions, as
follows:
      1.   The base fee shall be levied upon every new business for the first
year.
      2.   In the event that a business is sold or transferred to another
person, a new license and base fee shall be required.
      3.   For each calendar year thereafter, an administrative annual renewal
fee shall be levied on every licensed business. (Ord. 2012-08, 9-28-2012)
   B.   Disproportionate Service Fee Levied:
      1.   An additional regulatory fee shall be assessed to any business that
requires an enhanced level of service or creates a disproportionate cost to the
city.
   C.   Discounts Or Exemptions Granted Provisionally; Disallowance And
Collection:
      1.   Any discount or exemption to the full payment of licensing fees
authorized under this title is granted conditioned upon the licensee's initial
and continued compliance with the provisions of such discount or exemption. If
the discount or exemption was improperly granted in reliance upon false,
inaccurate or misleading information provided by the licensee, or if the
licensee has become otherwise unqualified to receive such discount or exemption
during the licensing year, the business license official is authorized and
directed to:
         a.   Determine the discounted portion of the business license fee that
was improperly granted or for which the licensee is unqualified;
         b.   Notify the licensee by first class mail, postage prepaid, that
the discount or exemption has been disallowed and the reasons therefor; and
         c.   Proceed to collect the amount representing the disallowed
discount or exemption.
      2.   The amount of such discount shall be considered to be delinquent if
not paid within sixty (60) days after notification that the discount or
exemption has been disallowed, or before renewal of the license, whichever
occurs first. Failure to make payment for the full amount of the disallowed
discount or exemption shall be grounds for revocation of the license.
      3.   The business license official's determination is subject to appeal
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Enumerated: The fees required by this title are set forth in the
consolidated fee schedule adopted by the city council.
   E.   Exemptions:
      1.   Insurance Companies: Insurance companies shall obtain a license
according to the provisions of this chapter but shall not pay a fee, pursuant
to provisions of Utah code title 31A, chapter 9, as amended.
      2.   Nonprofit Organizations; Tax Exempt: No license fee shall be imposed
under this chapter upon any person engaged in business solely for religious,
charitable or other strictly nonprofit purposes if that person's activities are
tax exempt under the laws of the United States and state of Utah; nor shall any
license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business specifically
exempted from municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the United States or
state of Utah. All such nonprofit organizations and organizations claiming to
be tax exempt should fill out a no fee business license application form and
submit a copy of said business tax exempt number, which will be placed on file
with the no fee application.
   F.   Fee Additional To All Other Fees: The license fee imposed by this
chapter shall be in addition to any and all other permits, taxes or licenses
imposed by any other provisions of the ordinances of the city.
   G.   Declared Debt: Any license fee due and unpaid under this chapter and
all penalties therein shall constitute a debt to the city and may be collected
by court proceedings in the same manner as any other debt in like amount. This
remedy shall be in addition to all other existing remedies. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-
24-2009)
4-1-10: LICENSE PERIOD:
   A.   Twelve Months: Except as set forth in subsection C of this section, all
licenses shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of
issuance, and must be renewed on an annual basis to remain valid. Annual
renewal fees must be paid in full to the city not more than forty five (45)
days after the first day of the twelfth month or the license is deemed expired.
   B.   Renewal: At the time of annual renewal, an inspection may occur to
ensure compliance with the ordinances of the city. If any changes have been
made to the business, a new license may be required. (Ord. 2012-08, 9-28-2012)
   C.   Temporary, Seasonal Merchant Or Mobile Food Vendor License: A temporary
or seasonal merchant's license or mobile food vendor's license shall be valid
for a period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. (Ord. 2014-14, 6-10-
2014)
4-1-11: DELINQUENT DATE AND LATE FEE:
   A.   Due Date And Late Fee: To maintain a valid business license, all
licensing fees that are imposed by this chapter (except the initial license fee
for a new business, out of city contracted services, temporary and seasonal
merchant licenses, or mobile food vendor's licenses) shall be remitted to the
city not more than forty five (45) days after the expiration date of the
license. In the event the fee is not paid within the forty five (45) days, a
late fee shall be imposed and shall become a part of the license fee levied by
this chapter.
   B.   Final Notice: A final notice shall be sent to all licensees whose
annual license fee remains unpaid one month after expiration. This notice shall
state that unless the license fee is paid within the forty five (45) day
renewal period a late fee shall be imposed and legal action may be initiated by
the city for engaging in business without a valid business license. The notice
shall also set forth the amount of the penalty fee. Should it be necessary to
take this matter to court, the business shall become responsible to reimburse
the city for all attorney fees, court costs and any other expenses incurred by
the city to clear up the account.
   C.   Engaging Without License: Should any person be found in the act of
engaging in business without a license, the late fee specified by the
consolidated fee schedule shall be added as a civil penalty to the base fee
upon required application.
   D.   Failure To Renew: For purposes under this section, new business
licenses will not be issued to applicants who have an outstanding account
balance. (Ord. 2012-08, 9-28-2012)
4-1-12: RULES AND REGULATIONS OF LICENSE AND LICENSEE:
   A.   Change In Business Location Or Name: In the event of a change in
business name an amended license shall be required. The processing fee set
forth in the consolidated fee schedule shall be required. In the event of a
change in business location, a new license may be required.
   B.   Nontransferable: Licenses issued under this chapter shall not be
transferable; in the event that a license is revoked, suspended, or otherwise
invalidated under the provisions of this title, the fee paid by the licensee to
the city shall be forfeited.
   C.   Duplicate License; Fee: The business license official shall require the
fee specified by the consolidated fee schedule for each duplicate license
issued to replace any license issued under the provisions of this chapter when
the same has been lost or destroyed.
   D.   Refund: No portion of a license fee shall be refunded for any reason
after the license has been issued.
   E.   Display Required: It is the duty of every licensee to keep this license
displayed and exhibited while said business is current and valid. Every
licensee not having a fixed place of business shall carry such license with him
at all times while engaging in business for which the license is issued and
shall produce said license for inspection when requested to do so by any
person. The licensee shall not allow any license, special permit or insignia to
remain displayed or used after the period for which it was issued has expired;
or when it has been suspended or revoked, or for any other reason becomes
ineffective. The licensee shall not loan, sell, give or assign to any other
person, or allow any other person to use or display, or to destroy, damage or
remove, or to have in his possession, except as authorized by the business
license official, any license or insignia which has been issued to said
licensee. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-1-13: INSPECTIONS OF PREMISES:
   A.   Every licensee shall allow inspection of the licensed premises by any
peace officer or other authorized city official during regular business hours.
Further, it is unlawful for any door or other means of ingress or egress for
the licensed premises to be locked or to prevent access by any peace officer or
other authorized city official while the premises are occupied or open to the
public. In addition to any other civil or criminal penalties associated with
violations of this section, such violations shall also constitute grounds for
revocation of any license issued under this chapter.
   B.   The business license official, all police officers and all other city
officials having duties to perform regarding licenses and businesses shall be
designated license inspectors and shall have and exercise the following powers
and duties:
      1.   To enter free of charge at any reasonable time, any place of
business and to demand the exhibition of said business license for current term
from any person engaged or employed in the transaction of such business.
      2.   To examine all places of business where a license is required and to
determine that at such place of business, no business other than the business
described in and covered by the license is transacted.
      3.   To report to the business license official all persons doing
business without a proper and valid license for such business. (Ord. 2008-04,
7-22-2008)
4-1-14: FALSE INFORMATION PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly submit information which is false.
(Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-1-15: PENALTY:
In addition to any late fees or civil penalties, any person who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor which is
punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate day a person violates any provision of this
chapter shall be a separate violation. (Ord. 2012-08, 9-28-2012)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Applicability
4-2-2: License Required
4-2-3: Definitions
4-2-4: Classifications; Privileges And Regulations
4-2-5: Application For License
4-2-6: Review And Approval Procedures
4-2-7: Denial Or Revocation Of License
4-2-8: License Fee
4-2-9: City Beer License Requires Applicable State License
4-2-10: Unlawful Acts
4-2-11: Penalty
4-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
In addition to all rules and regulations set forth by chapter 1 of this title,
the regulations contained in this chapter will apply to beer licenses. (Ord.
2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling alcoholic
beverages within the city without first obtaining the licenses required by this
chapter and chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in other sections of this code, the
following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings herein
prescribed:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: "Beer" and/or "liquor" as defined in this chapter.
BEER: Any product that contains at least sixty three one- hundredths of one
percent (0.63%) of alcohol by volume or at least one-half of one percent (0.5%)
of alcohol by weight, but not more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by volume
or three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) by weight; and is obtained by
fermentation, infusion or decoction of any malted grain. Beer may or may not
contain hops or other vegetable products. Beer includes other products that
contain alcohol within these percentages and which may be referred to as malt
liquor, malted beverages or malt coolers.
DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Refusal to comply with the lawful order of the police to
move from a public place, or knowingly creating a hazardous or physically
offensive condition, by any act which serves no legitimate purpose; or
intending to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, or recklessly
creating a risk thereof by engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or
threatening behavior; making unreasonable noises in a public place; making
unreasonable noises in a private place which can be heard in a public place; or
obstructing vehicular or pedestrian traffic. "Public place", for the purpose of
this definition, means any place to which the public or a substantial group of
the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
INTOXICATED: Shall have the same meaning as contained in Utah code title 32A,
as amended.
LIQUOR: Alcohol, or any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt, or
other liquid, or combination of liquids, a part of which is spirituous, vinous,
or fermented, and all other drinks, or drinkable liquids that contain more than
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume and is suitable to use for
beverage purposes. Liquor includes "wine" and "heavy beer" as defined by Utah
code title 32A, as amended, but does not include any beverage defined herein as
"beer".
OFF PREMISES BEER RETAILER: Any business that is engaged in the retail sale of
beer for consumption off the beer retailer's premises. Off premises beer
retailer does not include an on premises beer retailer.
ON PREMISES BEER RETAILER: Any business that is engaged in the sale of beer for
consumption on the beer retailer's premises, regardless of whether the business
sells beer for consumption off the beer retailer's premises. An on premises
beer retailer includes any person, business, or organization that meets the
requirements for a class B, C, D or E license as described in this chapter.
RESTAURANT: Any business establishment where a variety of foods is prepared and
complete meals are served to the general public; located on a premises having
adequate culinary fixtures for food preparation and dining accommodations; and
that is engaged primarily in serving meals to the general public.
SELL, SALE, AND TO SELL: Any transaction, exchange, or barter whereby, for any
consideration, an alcoholic beverage is either directly or indirectly
transferred, solicited, ordered, delivered for value, or by any means or under
any pretext is promised or obtained, whether done by a person as a principal,
proprietor, or as an agent, servant, or employee, unless otherwise defined in
this chapter.
TAVERN: Any business establishment that is engaged primarily in the sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the establishment's premises; tavern
includes the following if the revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages
exceeds the revenue from the sale of food, although food need not be sold in
the establishment: a beer bar; a parlor; a lounge; a cabaret; a private club,
or a nightclub. Tavern also includes any business with an area or areas for the
consumption of alcoholic beverages in which no minors under the age of twenty
one (21) are allowed. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-2-4: CLASSIFICATIONS; PRIVILEGES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Classifications: Beer licenses issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following kinds:
   Class A - Off premises beer retailer
Class B - Restaurant
Class C - Tavern
Class D - Nonprofit organization
Class E - Temporary special event
   B.   Privileges And Regulations:
      1.   A class A license shall allow the licensee to sell beer on the
licensed premises in the original containers for consumption off the premises
only.
         a.   Each class A licensee employee involved in the sale of alcoholic
beverages shall be required to complete the state's alcohol training and
education seminar in accordance with Utah code sections 32A-10-103 and 62A-15-
401, as amended.
      2.   A class B license shall allow the licensee to sell beer on the
licensed premises for consumption on or off the premises. A class B license may
be granted only to restaurants in which the principal business is not alcoholic
beverage sales. This class of license shall not be issued to restaurants or
other businesses or organizations which meet the criteria for a class C license
below.
      3.   A class C license shall allow the licensee to sell beer on the
licensed premises for consumption on or off the premises.
         a.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the total number
of class C licenses issued by the city may not at any time aggregate more than
that number determined by dividing the population of the city by six thousand
(6,000). This provision shall in no way affect present locations of class C
licensees or taverns so long as licenses for those locations remain in good
standing, or prevent the issuance of new licenses for those locations upon the
transfer of the business by the licensees thereof, including transfer by death,
unless the license for the premises is revoked or terminated in a manner
prescribed in this chapter.
      4.   A class D license may be issued to nonprofit organizations which are
of a public or semipublic nature; provided, however, that this class of license
shall not be issued to nonprofit corporations, businesses, or other
organizations which meet the criteria for a class C license above.
         a.   A class D licensee shall be permitted to sell beer only to
members and/or guests of such licensee for consumption on or off the premises.
         b.   A class D licensee shall be subject to all the regulations and
city ordinances relating to the sale of beer at retail and nothing contained
herein shall be construed as granting to the holder of a class D license any
special privileges or immunities.
      5.   A class E license shall allow the licensee to temporarily sell beer
at a special event on the licensed premises for consumption on the premises.
         a.   A class E license shall authorize the storage, sale, service and
consumption of beer at the temporary special event at which the storage, sale,
service or consumption of beer is otherwise prohibited by this title. The exact
length of a class E license shall be stated on the license. No class E license
shall be valid for more than a period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
         b.   The sale of beer under a series of class E licenses issued to the
same person, business, or organization may not exceed a total of ninety (90)
days in any one calendar year.
         c.   A class E license may not be issued or obtained for the purpose
of avoiding or attempting to avoid the licensing requirements for a class B, C,
or D license.
         d.   A class E license may not be issued or obtained on premises owned
or maintained by the city.
         e.   Attendees may not bring any alcoholic beverage other than that
furnished by the licensee onto the premises of the temporary special event.
         f.   No class E license shall be issued within six hundred feet (600')
of any public or private school, church, public library, public playground, or
park, measured from the nearest entrance of the proposed licensee by following
the shortest route of ordinary pedestrian travel to the property boundary of
the public or private school, church, public library, public playground, school
playground or park.
         g.   No class E license shall be issued within two hundred feet (200')
of any public or private school, church, public library, public playground, or
park, measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of the proposed
licensee to the nearest property boundary of the public or private school,
church, public library, public playground, or park. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   All applications for a beer license shall be made in writing upon the
form provided by the city and shall show the information required by chapter 1
of this title.
   B.   An application for a class E beer license shall also show the following
information:
      1.   A description of the times, dates, location, estimated attendance,
nature and purpose of the temporary special event;
      2.   A description of the areas in which the applicant proposes beer be
stored, sold or dispensed, and consumed;
      3.   A signed consent form stating that authorized license inspectors
will have unrestricted right to enter and inspect the premises during the
temporary special event.
   C.   All applications for a beer license shall also include a copy of a BCI
background check by the Utah department of public safety bureau, dated no more
than sixty (60) days prior to the date of application. Application for a beer
license shall constitute a waiver of disclosure of any criminal conviction or
plea of nolo contendere (no contest) or pleas being held in abeyance that have
not yet been dismissed and shall constitute voluntary consent for verification
of the BCI background check(s) by the police department, the Utah bureau of
criminal identification (BCI) and the federal bureau of investigation (FBI) for
the purposes of any proceeding involving the business or employee license.
(Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-2-6: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
The process for review and approval of an application for a beer license shall
be in accordance with chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-2-7: DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In addition to the reasons set forth in chapter 1 of this title for denial or
revocation of a license, the business license official may deny or revoke a
beer license for any person who has been convicted of:
   A.   A felony under any federal or state law;
   B.   Any violation of any federal or state law or local ordinance concerning
the sale, manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages;
   C.   Any crime involving moral turpitude; or
   D.   On two (2) or more occasions within the five (5) years before the day
on which the license is granted, driving under the influence of alcohol, any
drug, or the combined influence of alcohol and any drug.
   E.   In the case of a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company
the criteria under this section applies if any of the following has been
convicted of any offense described in subsection A, B, C, or D of this section:
      1.   A partner, a managing agent, a manager, an officer, or a director;
      2.   A stockholder who holds at least twenty percent (20%) of the total
issued and outstanding stock of the applicant corporation; or
      3.   A manager or member who owns at least twenty percent (20%) of the
applicant limited liability company.
   F.   The criteria under this section applies if any person employed to act
in a supervisory or managerial capacity for the on premises beer retailer has
been convicted of any offense described in this section. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-
2009)
4-2-8: LICENSE FEE:
For every beer license issued under this chapter, there shall be paid a license
fee as prescribed in chapter 1 of this title, payable at the time of
application. If the application is denied, any fee paid shall be returned to
the applicant less the processing fee in an amount specified by the
consolidated fee schedule. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-2-9: CITY BEER LICENSE REQUIRES APPLICABLE STATE LICENSE:
An on premises beer retailer license may only be issued by the city in
conjunction with a corresponding state license as required by Utah code title
32A, as amended. Suspension or revocation of the required state license shall
be grounds for suspension or revocation of the city's beer license by the
business license official. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit or restrict the city from enforcing state law or city ordinance as
allowed by law regarding the licensing and the sale of beer in the city. (Ord.
2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-2-10: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
The following acts shall be considered unlawful:
   A.   Sales Or Furnishing To Intoxicated Persons: To sell, offer to sell, or
otherwise furnish alcoholic beverages to any intoxicated person.
   B.   Minors:
      1.   To sell alcoholic beverages to any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years.
      2.   For any licensee holding a class C or class D license hereunder to
allow any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to be in, loiter about
or to frequent the licensed premises.
      3.   For any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to be involved
in the retail sale or service of alcoholic beverages, except those class A
licensee employees otherwise authorized by law.
   C.   Sales Upon Licensed Premises: For any licensee to sell alcoholic
beverages anywhere within the city except upon the premises of the licensed
business.
   D.   Advertising: To advertise the sale of alcoholic beverages except in
full compliance with the state's alcoholic beverage control act and regulations
duly made therein by the state alcoholic beverage control commission; provided,
however, that a simple statement that beer is sold under city license may be
placed in the front window of the licensed premises.
   E.   Violate Terms Of License: For any licensee to violate any terms of the
license issued.
   F.   Class A; Consumption On Premises: For any class A licensee to allow any
person to consume beer upon the premises of the licensed business. It is
unlawful for any person to consume beer upon said premises.
   G.   Food Offers: For any licensee to give away or offer any free lunch or
other food with or in connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   H.   Hours Restricted; Exception For Restaurants:
      1.   For any entity which holds a class A license to sell or otherwise
furnish or dispose of alcoholic beverages between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Further, it is unlawful for any entity
which holds a class B, C, D, or E license to sell or otherwise furnish or
dispose of alcoholic beverages, or allow alcoholic beverages to be consumed on
the premises or to allow alcoholic beverages to remain on that portion of the
premises open to customers or members of the public between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
      2.   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the holders of a class B
license from conducting a properly licensed restaurant after one o'clock (1:00)
A.M., provided however, no alcoholic beverages shall be sold or consumed in
violation of this chapter.
   I.   Impede View: For any licensee holding a class B, C, D, or E license to
arrange or keep the licensed premises or any booth, stall, furniture, fixtures,
screen or curtains therein so as to impede a full view of the premises and all
of the occupants therein from the main floor entrance thereof.
   J.   Purchase Or Acquire Alcoholic Beverages: For any licensee to purchase
or acquire or allow to be kept upon the licensed premises any alcoholic
beverages, except those lawfully acquired from a brewer or wholesaler licensed
under the provisions of the alcoholic beverage control act.
   K.   Gambling Or Gaming Device: For any licensee to have, possess, store or
display upon the licensed premises any gambling or gaming device or any lottery
tickets, or to allow any such device or tickets to be brought upon the premises
for any purpose.
   L.   Barricades: For any door or entryway to be locked or barricaded in any
way so as to interfere with the free entrance to the licensed premises by any
peace officer at any time while the premises is occupied or open to the public.
However, there may be maintained upon the premises a locked storeroom for the
keeping of goods and supplies used in the business. Such storeroom shall at all
times be subject to search and inspection by any peace officer and it is
unlawful for any licensee to deny any peace officer immediate access to such
storeroom upon demand.
   M.   Lookout: For any person commonly known as a "lookout" to be stationed
or maintained to give warning of the approach of any peace officer. It is
unlawful to maintain or operate any device which is used or capable of being
used to give warning to persons within such licensed premises of the approach
of any peace officer.
   N.   Disorderly Conduct: For any licensee to allow any disorderly conduct to
be committed or to allow any disorderly person to be or remain upon the
licensed premises.
   O.   Sales After Revocation Or Suspension: For any person to sell alcoholic
beverages after the revocation or suspension of any license issued to him.
   P.   Control Of Conduct: For any licensee to fail to maintain full control
of the conduct of the business upon the licensed premises or to fail to inform
himself of the manner in which said business is conducted and of the activities
of his employees in and about the licensed premises. The licensee shall be
responsible under this chapter for all of the activities of his employees, and
hereunder the licensee unconditionally guarantees to the city that neither he
nor his employees will violate the terms of this chapter and for breach of such
guarantee, the license may be revoked.
   Q.   Open Container: No on or off premises beer retailer or its employees
shall permit a patron or attendee to carry from the premises an open container
that is used primarily for drinking purposes and contains any alcoholic
beverage. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-2-11: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
CHAPTER 3
TRAILER PARKS AND PUBLIC LODGING PLACES
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 4
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Title
4-4-2: Purpose And Application
4-4-3: Definitions
4-4-4: Obscenity And Lewdness; Statutory Provisions
4-4-5: Business Licenses
4-4-6: Legitimate Artistic Modeling
4-4-7: Categories; Number Of Licenses
4-4-8: Application For License
4-4-9: Fees
4-4-10: Bond Required
4-4-11: Issuance Of License
4-4-12: Location Restrictions
4-4-13: Design Of Premises
4-4-14: License; Specific Regulations
4-4-15: General Regulations
4-4-16: Prohibited Activities
4-4-17: Outcall Services
4-4-18: Seminude Dancing Establishments
4-4-19: Nudity; Defenses To Prosecution
4-4-20: Violations
4-4-21: Hours Of Operation
4-4-22: Alcohol Prohibited
4-4-23: Compliance By Present Licensees
4-4-24: Appeal Procedure
4-4-25: Penalty
4-4-1: TITLE:
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to as
the SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2008-04,
7-22-2008)
4-4-2: PURPOSE AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Reasonable And Uniform Regulations: It is the purpose and object of
this chapter that the city establish reasonable and uniform regulations
governing the time, place and manner of operation of sexually oriented
businesses and their employees in the city. This chapter shall be construed to
protect the governmental interests recognized by this chapter in a manner
consistent with constitutional protections provided by the United States and
Utah constitutions.
   B.   Certain Business Activities: This chapter imposes regulatory standards
and license requirements on certain business activities, which are
characterized as sexually oriented businesses, and certain employees of those
businesses characterized as sexually oriented business employees. Except where
the context or specific provisions require, this chapter does not supersede or
nullify any other related ordinances, including, but not limited to, those
codified in various other chapters of this code. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in other sections of this code, the
following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings herein
prescribed:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated, slug operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting, or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment:
   A.   Which excludes minors from more than fifteen percent (15%) of the
retail floor or shelf space of the premises; or
   B.   Where, more than fifteen percent (15%) of the retail floor or shelf
space of the premises, offers for sale or rental, for any form of
consideration, any one or more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals
or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes
or video reproductions, slides or other visual representations, the central
theme of which depicts or describes specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas; or instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designated
for use in connection with specified sexual activities, except for legitimate
medically recognized contraceptives.
ADULT BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater,
adult bookstore or adult video store.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of dress that covers no more than the
"specified anatomical areas";
   B.   Live performances or dancers whose attire covers no more than the
"specified anatomical areas"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment which:
   A.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions;
repeated showings of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition; or
   B.   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out as such a business; or
   B.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions;
repeated performance of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition; or
   C.   Regularly features persons who appear in live performances in a state
of nudity or which are primarily characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
BUSINESS PREMISES: The real property upon which the sexually oriented business
is located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license.
ESCORT: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes, visits,
consorts with or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize, visit or
accompany another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment or places
of amusement, or within any place of public or private resort or any business
or commercial establishment or any private quarters. Escort shall not be
construed to include persons who provide business or personal services such as
licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or handicapped, social
secretaries or similar service personnel whose relationship with their patron
is characterized by a bona fide contractual relationship having a duration of
more than twelve (12) hours and who provide a service not principally
characterized as dating or socializing. Escort shall also not be construed to
include persons providing services such as singing telegrams, birthday
greetings or similar activities characterized by appearances in a public place,
contracted for by a party other than the person for whom the service is being
performed and of a duration not longer than one hour.
ESCORT SERVICE: A business, contractor, agency, or person which holds itself as
such a business; or for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit furnishes or
offers to furnish names of persons or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for
persons, who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs,
entertainments or places of amusement or who may consort with others about any
place of public resort or within any private quarters.
ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER: Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts or
patrons at any location within the city, whether or not such third person is
employed by such escort service, escort, patron or by another business, or is
an independent contractor or self-employed.
NUDE AND SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation,
partnership or any other entity, or individual partnership, or any other entity
or individual which furnishes, books or otherwise engages or offers to furnish,
book or otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer licensed
pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a business licensed
for nude entertainment, seminude dancing bars or adult theaters.
NUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business, including adult theater, where
employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a
state of nudity or seminudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a nude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: A state of dress in which the nipple and areola of a
female breast or male or female genitals, pubic region or anus are covered by
less than the covering required in the definition of "seminude".
OBSCENE: Any material or performance is obscene if:
   A.   The average person, applying contemporary community standards, finds
that, taken as a whole, it appeals to prurient interest in sex;
   B.   It is patently offensive in the description or depiction of nudity,
sexual conduct, sexual excitement, sadomasochistic abuse, or excretion; and
   C.   Taken as a whole, it does not have serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
OPERATOR: The manager or other natural person principally in charge of a
sexually oriented business.
OUTCALL SERVICES: Services of a type performed by a sexually oriented business
employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented business,
including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers and other similar
employees.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or escort
or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward or any other form of consideration.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
nipple and areola of the female breast and the male or female genitals; pubic
region and anus shall be fully covered by an opaque covering no narrower than
four inches (4") wide in front and five inches (5") wide in the back, which
shall not taper to less than one inch (1") wide at the narrowest point.
SEMINUDE DANCING BARS: Any business with a class B - restaurant or class D -
tavern beer license, which permits dancing, modeling or other performance or
appearance, however characterized, in a state of seminudity.
SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business, including an adult theater, where
employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a
state of seminudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a seminude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Nude entertainment businesses, sexually oriented
"outcall services", adult businesses, "seminude dancing bars" and "nude and
seminude dancing agencies", as defined in this chapter.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work on the premises
of the sexually oriented business in activities related to the sexually
oriented portion of the business. This includes all managing employees,
dancers, escorts, models and other similar employees whether or not hired as
employees, agents or as independent contractors whether or not on a temporary
or permanent basis, and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of said business. Employees shall not
include individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually oriented portion of
the business, such as janitors, bookkeepers and similar employees. Sexually
oriented business employees shall not include cooks, serving persons,
bartenders and similar employees, except where they may be managers, operators
or supervisors of the business. All persons making outcall meetings under this
chapter, including escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs
and other similar employees, shall be considered sexually oriented business
employees.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered or less than completely and
opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or the female breast
below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any offense, regardless of title, involving the
following:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity;
sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
   B.   For which:
      1.   Less than three (3) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
      2.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
      3.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any thirty six (36) month period.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, sodomy, sexual copulation between a
person and a beast, fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, pederasty, anal
copulation between a human male and another human male, human female or beast;
   C.   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a
mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed;
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C of this definition. (Ord. 2008-
04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-4: OBSCENITY AND LEWDNESS; STATUTORY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any matter
which is contrary to applicable federal or state statutes prohibiting
obscenity.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this
section shall be deemed to permit or allow conduct or the showing or display of
any matter which is contrary to the provisions of the Utah criminal code
section 76-9-702, as amended, prohibiting lewdness. Provided, however, that for
the purpose of sexually oriented businesses, the definition of "private parts"
shall be construed to mean "nudity" as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 2008-04,
7-22-2008)
4-4-5: BUSINESS LICENSES:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Business: It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a sexually oriented business without first obtaining a sexually
oriented business license. The business license shall specify the type of
business for which it is obtained.
   B.   Sexually Oriented Business Employee: It shall be unlawful for any
sexually oriented business to employ, contract, hire, or otherwise engage the
services of any person in the capacity of a sexually oriented business
employee, or for any person to be employed by a sexually oriented business in
the capacity of a sexually oriented business employee, unless that person first
obtains a sexually oriented business employee license. (Ord. 2011-05, 4-12-
2011, eff. 10-1-2011)
   C.   Nude And Seminude Dancing Agencies:
      1.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer, model or performer to
appear in a state of seminudity or nudity for pecuniary compensation in, or
for, any nude entertainment business, adult theater or seminude dancing bar
licensed pursuant to this chapter, unless such agency is licensed pursuant to
this chapter.
      2.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a professional dancer,
model or performer in a state of seminudity or nudity, either gratuitously or
for compensation, in, or for, any business licensed pursuant to this chapter,
unless such person is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Exemptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex
therapist or similar individual licensed by the state to provide bona fide
sexual therapy or counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse,
psychiatrist, psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the
state for activities in the classroom. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-6: LEGITIMATE ARTISTIC MODELING:
   A.   Intent: The city does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit
legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected
by the first amendment or similar state protections. The city does intend to
prohibit prostitution and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude
modeling. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 4-4-15D11 of this
chapter, a licensed outcall employee may appear in a state of nudity before a
customer or patron providing that a written contract for such appearance was
entered into between the customer or patron and the employee and signed at
least twenty four (24) hours before the nude appearance. All of the other
applicable provisions of this chapter shall still apply to such nude
appearance.
   B.   Contract; Unlawful Activities: In the event of a contract for nude
modeling or appearance signed more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
the modeling or appearance, the individual to appear nude shall not be required
to obtain a license pursuant to this chapter. During such unlicensed nude
appearance, it is unlawful to:
      1.   Appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age of
eighteen (18);
      2.   Allow, offer or agree to any touching of the contracting party or
other person by the individual appearing nude;
      3.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor;
      4.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sex act as validly defined by
city ordinance or state statute;
      5.   Allow, offer or agree or permit the contracting party or other
person to masturbate in the presence of the individual contracted to appear
nude;
      6.   Allow, offer or agree for the individual appearing nude to be within
five feet (5') of any other person while performing or while nude or seminude.
(Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-7: CATEGORIES; NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Scope: It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be
licensed for more than one category of sexually oriented business, except that
a business may have a license for both outcall services and nude and seminude
dancing agency on the same premises.
   B.   Categories: The categories of sexually oriented businesses are:
      1.   Outcall services;
      2.   Adult businesses;
      3.   Nude entertainment businesses;
      4.   Seminude dancing bars;
      5.   Nude and seminude dancing agency. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-8: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a sexually oriented business or
as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall submit, on a form to be supplied by the business license
official, the following:
   A.   Correct Legal Name: The correct legal name of each applicant,
corporation, partnership, limited partnership or entity doing business under an
assumed name.
   B.   Corporations; Partnerships: If the applicant is a corporation,
partnership or limited partnership or individual or entity doing business under
an assumed name, the information required below for individual applicants shall
be submitted for each partner and each principal of an applicant and for each
officer, director and any shareholder (corporate or personal) of more than ten
percent (10%) of the stock of any applicant. Any holding company or any entity
holding more than ten percent (10%) of an applicant's stock shall be considered
an applicant for purposes of disclosure under this chapter.
   C.   Check Signer: All corporations, partnerships or noncorporate entities
included on the application shall also identify each individual authorized by
the corporation, partnership or noncorporate entity to sign the checks for such
corporation, partnership or noncorporate entity.
   D.   Personal Information: For all applicants or individuals, the
application must also state:
      1.   Any other names or aliases used by the individual;
      2.   The age, date and place of birth;
      3.   Height;
      4.   Weight;
      5.   Color of hair;
      6.   Color of eyes;
      7.   Present business address and telephone number;
      8.   Present residence and telephone number;
      9.   Utah driver's license or identification number;
      10.   Social security number; and
      11.   Any internet websites that the business operates.
   E.   Proof Of Age: Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least
eighteen (18) years of age or, in the case of employees to be employed in a
business where a different age is required, proof of the required age.
   F.   Photographs: Attached to the form as provided above, two (2) color
passport type photographs of the applicant clearly showing the individual's
face and the individual's fingerprints. The photographs and fingerprints shall
be on a form from a law enforcement agency. Fees for the photographs and
fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant directly to the issuing agency.
   G.   Health Department Certificate: For any individual applicant required to
obtain a sexually oriented business employee license as an escort or as a nude
entertainer, a certificate from the county health department stating that the
individual has, within thirty (30) days immediately preceding the date of the
filing of the application, been examined and found to be free of any contagious
or communicable disease.
   H.   Previous Business Information: A statement of the business, occupation
or employee history of the applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding
the date of the filing of the application.
   I.   License And Permit History: A statement detailing the license or permit
history of the applicant for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the
date of the filing of the application, including whether such applicant
previously operating or seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city,
state or territory, has ever had a license, permit or authorization to do
business denied, revoked, suspended or been charged with doing business without
a license, or has had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, suspension,
or charge, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and
state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, suspension or charge. A
copy of an order of denial, revocation, suspension or charge shall be attached
to the application. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
   J.   Criminal Convictions: All applications for a sexually oriented business
or employee license shall also include a copy of a BCI background check by the
Utah department of public safety bureau, dated no more than sixty (60) days
prior to the date of application. Application for a sexually oriented business
or employee license shall constitute a waiver of disclosure of any criminal
conviction or plea of nolo contendere (no contest) or pleas being held in
abeyance that have not yet been dismissed and shall constitute voluntary
consent for verification of the BCI background check(s) by the police
department, the Utah bureau of criminal identification (BCI) and the federal
bureau of investigation (FBI) for the purposes of any proceeding involving the
business or employee license. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
   K.   Owner Of Property: In the event the applicant is not the owner of
record of the real property upon which the business or proposed business is or
is to be located, the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement
from the legal or equitable owner of the possessory interest in the property,
specifically acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a
license for the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement,
the applicant shall furnish the name, address and phone number of the owner of
record of the property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement
pertaining to the premises in which the service is or will be located.
   L.   Description Of Services: A description of the services to be provided
by the business, with sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to
determine what business will be transacted on the premises, together with a
schedule of usual fees for services to be charged by the licensee, and any
rules, regulations or employment guidelines under or by which the business
intends to operate. This description shall also include:
      1.   The hours that the business or service will be open to the public
and the methods of promoting the health and safety of the employees and patrons
and preventing them from engaging in illegal activity.
      2.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging in
acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities.
      3.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances.
      4.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to promote
the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the transmission
of disease and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or other criminal
activity. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-9: FEES:
   A.   Schedule: Each applicant for a sexually oriented business or employee
license shall be required to pay regulatory license fees pursuant to the city's
current consolidated fee schedule.
   B.   Fees Additional: These fees shall be in addition to the other licenses
and fees required to do business in the city. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-4-10: BOND REQUIRED:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business license shall post with the
city's business license official a cash or corporate surety bond, payable to
the city, in the amount specified by the city council in the current
consolidated fee schedule. Any fines assessed against the business, officers or
managers for violations of city ordinances shall be taken from this bond if not
paid in cash within ten (10) days after notice of the fine, unless an appeal is
filed, as provided by this chapter. In the event the funds are drawn against
the cash or surety bond to pay such fines, the bond shall be replenished to its
original amount within fifteen (15) days of the date of notice of any draw
against it. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-11: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Within Thirty Days; Exceptions: The city business license official
shall approve the issuance of a license to the applicant within thirty (30)
days after receipt of an application, unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following is true:
      1.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age or any higher age,
if the license sought requires a higher age.
      2.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant
in relation to a sexually oriented business.
      3.   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a material question or
request for information as authorized by this chapter.
      4.   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity or
provision of this chapter or similar provisions found in statutes or ordinances
from any jurisdiction within two (2) years immediately preceding the filing of
the application. A criminal conviction for a specified criminal activity or
provision of this chapter or similar provisions from any jurisdiction, whether
or not being appealed, is conclusive evidence of a violation, but a conviction
is not necessary to prove a violation.
      5.   The premises to be used for the business has been disapproved by the
county health department, the fire department, the police department and the
city building officials or the city zoning officials as not being in compliance
with applicable laws and ordinances of the city. If any of the foregoing
reviewing agencies cannot complete their review within the thirty (30) day
approval or denial period, the agency or department may obtain from the city
business license official an extension of time for their review of no more than
fifteen (15) days. The total time for the city to approve or deny a license
shall not exceed forty five (45) days from the receipt of an application.
Businesses located outside of the corporate boundaries of the city, but
requiring a license under this chapter, may be denied a license pursuant to
this chapter if the business does not have a valid business license to conduct
business at the business location from the appropriate jurisdiction for that
location.
         a.   Upon receipt of an application, all departments required to
review the application shall determine within seven (7) days whether or not the
application is incomplete in items needed for processing. Incomplete
applications shall immediately be returned to the applicant with a
specification of the items which are incomplete.
         b.   The time for processing applications specified in this section
shall begin to run from the receipt of a complete application.
         c.   In the event that a license for a nude entertainment, seminude
dancing bar, nude and seminude dancing agencies, adult businesses or nude
entertainment businesses has not been disapproved within thirty (30) days or
the forty five (45) days allowed after an extension, the city shall issue the
license pending completion of the city's review.
         d.   Any license issued pursuant to subsection A5c of this section may
be revoked by the city pursuant to the revocation procedures of subsection 4-4-
20B of this chapter if the completed review determines that the license should
have been denied.
      6.   The license fee required by this chapter or by other ordinance has
not been paid.
      7.   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid.
      8.   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or not in
compliance with this chapter or similar provisions found in state statutes or
ordinance from any other jurisdiction.
      9.   An applicant has been convicted of, pled nolo contendere (no
contest), except those which have been expunged or has pleas that are currently
being held in abeyance and have not yet been dismissed to a crime:
         a.   Involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated
promotion of prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution;
solicitation of sex acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding
prostitution; sale, distribution or display of material harmful to minors;
sexual performance by minors; possession of child pornography; public lewdness;
indecent exposure; any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child;
sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible
sexual abuse; incest; harboring a runaway child; criminal contempt, conspiracy
or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses or offenses involving
similar elements from any jurisdiction, regardless of the exact title of the
offense, for which:
            (1)   Less than two (2) years have elapsed from the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the offense is of a misdemeanor offense; or
less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date
of release from confinement imposed for conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the offenses are of two (2) or more misdemeanors within the five (5)
years;
            (2)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed from the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the offense is a felony; or
            (3)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the offenses are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any thirty six (36) month period.
         b.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification pursuant to this section.
      10.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding twelve (12) months or whose license to operate a sexually
oriented business has been revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months.
      11.   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the city within three (3) years of the date of the current
application. However, if the revocation was based on a criminal conviction, no
application will be accepted for five (5) years from the termination of all
probation, formal or informal, and all other sentencing conditions. Denial,
suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this subsection shall
be subject to appeal as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
   B.   License Term: All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
valid for a period of one calendar year. Those new licenses which are approved
after the calendar year begins are only valid through the remaining months of
the calendar year. Exception: New licenses issued after November 1 shall
require payment of the full application fee and shall be valid through December
31 of the following year. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
   C.   Renewal: The license shall be subject to renewal upon the written
application of the applicant at least thirty (30) days before the expiration
date, and when made less than thirty (30) days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license will not be affected. Renewal shall be dependent upon
a finding by the city that the applicant has not been convicted of any
"specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter or committed any act
during the existence of the previous license, which would be grounds to deny
the initial license application. When the city denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became
final. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-12: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Nude Entertainment Businesses: It is unlawful for any business licensed
for nude entertainment to be located within three hundred thirty feet (330') of
a business licensed for the sale or consumption of alcohol.
   B.   Zoning: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do
business at any location within the city not zoned for such business. Sexually
oriented businesses licensed as adult businesses, nude entertainment businesses
or seminude dancing bars pursuant to this chapter shall only be allowed in
areas zoned for their use pursuant to this code. Businesses licensed as outcall
services and nude and seminude dancing agencies are not limited to locations.
(Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-13: DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   Adult Businesses:
      1.   Diagram: In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a
sexually oriented business, any applicant for a license as an adult business
shall also submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of the license.
The design and construction, prior to granting a license or opening for
business, shall conform to the following:
         a.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.
         b.   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any
of the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person
per stall be allowed in the restroom, and only one person in any stall at a
time, and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to the manager's
station areas.
         c.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
         d.   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer's or architect's blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures and ratings for
illumination capacity.
      2.   Manager's Station; Unobstructed View: It shall be the duty of the
licensee and the licensee's employees to ensure that the views from the
manager's station in subsection A1 of this section remain unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or any other materials at all times
that any patron is present in the premises, and to ensure that no patron is
permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an
area in which patrons will not be permitted.
      3.   Lighting Fixtures: The premises shall at all times be equipped and
operated with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate
every place to which patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not
less than one foot- candle, measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of
the licensee and the licensee's employees present on the premises to ensure
that the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any
patron is present on the premises.
   B.   Nude Entertainment Business:
      1.   It is unlawful for business premises licensed for nude entertainment
to:
         a.   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted, and except that in
an adult theater such items may be on the stage as part of a performance.
         b.   Allow any door on any room used for the business, except for the
door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors and
restroom doors, to be lockable from the inside.
         c.   Provide any room in which the employee and the patron are alone
together without a separation by a solid physical barrier at least three feet
(3') high and six inches (6") wide. The patron shall remain on one side of the
barrier and the employee shall remain on the other side of the barrier.
      2.   Adult theaters shall also require that any performance area shall be
separated from the patrons by a minimum of three feet (3'), which separation
shall be delineated by a physical barrier at least three feet (3') high. (Ord.
2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-14: LICENSE; SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Notice Of Change Of Information: Any change in the information required
to be submitted under this chapter for either a sexually oriented business
license or sexually oriented business employee license shall be given, in
writing, to the business license official and the police department within
fourteen (14) days after such change.
   B.   Transfer Limitations: Sexually oriented business licenses granted under
this chapter shall not be transferable. It is unlawful for a license held by an
individual to be transferred. It is unlawful for a license held by a
corporation, partnership or other noncorporate entity to transfer any part in
excess of ten percent (10%) thereof, without filing a new application and
obtaining prior city approval. If any transfer of the controlling interest in a
business licensee occurs, the license is immediately null and void and the
business shall not operate until a separate new license has been properly
issued by the city as provided in this chapter. For purposes of this chapter,
all owners, corporations, partnerships, or anyone who has any ownership
interest in the sexually oriented business shall be criminally liable as a
party to any violation of this chapter. In addition, any manager or person with
supervisory status over the unlicensed employee shall be criminally liable as a
party to any violation of this chapter. Any employee who knowingly,
intentionally, recklessly, or with criminal negligence, introduces, furnishes,
arranges, transports, assists, or refers or offers to introduce, furnish,
arrange, transport, assist, or refer any unlicensed employee, to provide, or
for the purpose of providing, escort services, shall be criminally liable.
   C.   Display Of License: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business
location within the boundaries of the city to fail to display the license
granted pursuant to this chapter in a prominent location within the business
premises. It is unlawful for any individual licensed pursuant to this chapter
to fail to, at all times while engaged in licensed activities within the
corporate boundaries of the city, carry their employee license on their person.
If the individual is nude, such license shall be visibly displayed within the
same room as the employee is performing. When requested by police, city
licensing or other enforcement personnel or health official, it is unlawful to
fail to show the appropriate licenses while engaged in licensed activities
within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   D.   Advertisements; Statement: It is unlawful for any advertisement by the
sexually oriented business or employee to fail to state that the business or
employee is licensed by the city and shall include the city license number.
(Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-15: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Obscenity: Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing
in this chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or displaying of
any matter which is contrary to the provisions of this code, or other
applicable federal or state statutes prohibiting obscenity.
   B.   Premises Location: It is unlawful to conduct business under a license
issued pursuant to this chapter at any location other than the licensed
premises. Any location to which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by
such business shall require a separate license.
   C.   Business Name: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do
business in the city under any name other than the business name specified in
the application.
   D.   Unlawful Activities: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business
or sexually oriented business employee to:
      1.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years or the age of
twenty one (21) if required by applicable liquor ordinances on the licensed
premises, except that in adult businesses which allow minors in part but not
all of the business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas;
      2.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons
under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   Allow, offer or agree to allow any alcohol beverages to be stored,
used or consumed on or in the licensed premises;
      4.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any
customer is in the premises;
      5.   Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
      6.   Allow, offer or agree to any sexually oriented business employee
touching any patron or customer, except that outcall services employees and
customers may touch, except that any touching of specified anatomical areas,
whether clothed or unclothed, is prohibited;
      7.   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or
distribution of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
      8.   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances while engaged in the activities of the
business;
      9.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall services
employee or business, the outcall employee committing, offering or agreeing to
commit prostitution, attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting
prostitution, soliciting a minor or committing activities harmful to a minor;
      10.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sex act as validly defined by
city ordinances or state statute in the presence of any customer or patron;
      11.   Allow, offer or agree to any outcall services employee appearing
before any customer or patron in a state of nudity;
      12.   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate
in the presence of the sexually oriented business employee or on the premises
of a sexually oriented business. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-16: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Performers: It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or
performer, while performing in any business licensed pursuant to this chapter:
      1.   To touch in any manner any other person;
      2.   To throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
      3.   To accept any money, drink or any other object directly from any
person;
      4.   To allow another person to touch such performer or to place any
money or object on the performer or within the costume or person of the
performer; or
      5.   For the performer to place anything within the costume or adjust or
move the costume while performing so as to render the performer in a state of
nudity.
   B.   Patrons: It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any business to
touch in any manner any performer, to place any money or object on or within
the costume or person of any performer, or to give or offer to give to any such
performer any drinks, money or object while such performer is performing;
except that money may be placed on the stage which shall not be picked up by
the performer except by hand. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-17: OUTCALL SERVICES:
It is unlawful for any business or employee providing outcall services
contracted for within the city, to fail to comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Written Contract: All businesses licensed to provide outcall services
pursuant to this chapter shall provide to each patron a written contract in
receipt of pecuniary compensation for services. The contract shall clearly
state the type of services to be performed, the length of time such services
shall be performed, the total amount such services shall cost the patron and
any special terms or conditions relating to the services to be performed. The
contract need not include the name of the patron. The business licensee shall
keep and maintain a copy of each written contract entered into pursuant to this
section for a period of not less than one year from the date of provision of
services thereunder. The contracts shall be numbered and entered into a
register listing the contract number, date, name of all employees involved in
the contract and pecuniary compensation paid.
   B.   Maintain Office Or Telephone: All outcall services businesses licensed
pursuant to this chapter shall maintain an open office or telephone at which
the licensee or licensee's designated agency may be personally contacted during
all hours outcall services employees are working. The address and phone number
of the license location shall appear and be included in all patron contracts
and published advertisements. For outcall services businesses which premises
are licensed within the corporate limits of the city, private rooms or booths
where the patrons may meet with the outcall employee shall not be provided at
the open office or any other location by the service, nor shall patrons meet
outcall services employees at the business premises.
   C.   Advertise; Manner: Outcall services shall not advertise in such a
manner that would lead a reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified
sexual activities would be performed by the outcall services employee.
   D.   Additional Regulations: An outcall services business shall not employ
any person under the age of eighteen (18). A person commits an offense if the
person acts as an escort under the age of eighteen (18) or agrees to act as an
escort for any person under the age of eighteen (18). Restrictions on outcall
services and employees apply regardless of location. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-18: SEMINUDE DANCING ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Operation Requirements: It is unlawful for any business licensed for
the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages pursuant to city ordinances to
allow any person on the premises to dance, model, or perform in a state of
seminudity.
   B.   Performer Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person to perform or
appear in a state of seminudity as a professional dancer, model, performer or
otherwise on the premises of a business licensed as a seminude dancing bar,
either gratuitously or for compensation, unless that person is licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee.
   C.   Stage Requirements: It is unlawful for any performer in a business
licensed as a seminude dancing bar to appear in costume other than on stage,
which shall be at least three feet (3') from the portion of the premises on
which patrons are allowed, and which shall be separated from the patrons by a
solid barrier or railing, the top of which shall be at least two feet (2') from
the floor.
   D.   Costume Requirements: It is unlawful for performers in seminude dancing
bars to fail to comply with the following costume requirements:
      1.   Performers shall at all times be costumed during performances in a
manner not to violate any city ordinance concerning disorderly or obscene
conduct, and such performers shall not perform or conduct themselves in such a
manner as to violate the provision of any city ordinance. No performer shall
appear in any business licensed as a seminude dancing bar during a performance
or appearance with less than opaque clothing, which meets the definition of
seminude, and, in the case of a female performer, covers the areola and nipple
of such performer in a shape and color other than the natural shape and color
of the nipple and areola.
      2.   While on the portion of a business licensed as a seminude dancing
bar used by patrons, performers shall be dressed in opaque clothing covering
the performer's buttocks and pubic area and, in the case of a female, the
breast and nipple. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-19: NUDITY; DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution for violation under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   Proprietary School: By a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   B.   Private College Or University: By a private college or university which
maintains and operates educational programs in which credits are transferable
to a college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-20: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Injunction: An entity or individual who operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business without a valid license or who employs or
is employed as an employee of a sexually oriented business, or who operates
such a business or functions as such an employee in violation of the provisions
of this chapter, is subject to a suit for injunction in addition to the civil
and criminal violations provided herein, and any other remedy available at law
or in equity.
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation:
      1.   The city may issue a notice suspending or revoking a sexually
oriented business or employee license granted under this chapter if a licensee,
or an employee of the licensee has:
         a.   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter;
         b.   Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this chapter or by any other
statute or ordinance;
         c.   Failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in this chapter;
such suspension shall extend until the bond has been replenished;
         d.   Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining the
license;
         e.   Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business or worked under
the employee license during the period when the business license or employee
licensee's license was suspended;
         f.   A licensee has committed an offense which would be grounds for
denial of a license for which the time period required has not elapsed;
         g.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person committed in or on, or solicited for on the licensed premises, or an
outcall services employee solicited or committed on or off the premises, an
offense which would be grounds for denial of a license for which a conviction
has been obtained, and the person or persons were employees, whether or not
licensed, of the sexually oriented business at the time the offenses were
committed;
         h.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, or sales taxes related to the sexually oriented business;
         i.   A licensee or employee knew, or should have known that
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances occurred on the premises;
         j.   A licensee or employee knew, or should have known that
prostitution occurred on the premises;
         k.   A licensee or employee knew, or should have known that any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or other sex act
occurred in or on the licensed premises;
         l.   A licensee or employee knew, or should have known that obscene
materials, child pornography in any form, or any other contraband is on the
licensed premises.
      2.   Suspension or revocation shall take effect within ten (10) days of
the issuance of notice, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter.
      3.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
      4.   When the city revokes or suspends a license, the revocation or
suspension shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a
sexually oriented business license for one year from the date the revocation or
suspension became effective. If, subsequent to revocation or suspension, the
city finds that there are substantial mitigating factors, or substantial
corrective measures have been employed by the licensee the applicant may be
granted a license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the
revocation or suspension became effective. An example of substantial mitigating
factors would be the wilful acts of an employee or customer disregarding the
directions of the licensee. An example of substantial corrective measures would
be the termination of an offending employee or prohibiting the return of an
offending patron.
      5.   If any licensee has a license revoked three (3) times within any
five (5) year period, said licensee will thereafter be precluded from regaining
any such license.
      6.   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may appeal pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-21: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No sexually oriented business may remain open at any time between the hours of
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-22: ALCOHOL PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter to allow the
sale, storage, supply or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the business
premises. It is unlawful for any person to possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage on the business premises of any sexually oriented business. (Ord.
2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-23: COMPLIANCE BY PRESENT LICENSEES:
Any person, firm or corporation which held any business license from Clearfield
City which lawfully permits the activities regulated hereby or was doing
business on the effective date hereof, shall have forty five (45) days from the
effective date hereof to submit the application required in this chapter or be
deemed as operating a sexually oriented business without a license.
Additionally, employees of businesses designated by this chapter who are
required to obtain an employee license shall have forty five (45) days from
passage hereof to submit application for an employee license or be deemed as
operating without a license. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-24: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing: If the license is denied or approved with qualifications, or if
a notice of suspension, revocation or citation of a civil fine is imposed, the
applicant or licensee may file an appeal with the city recorder.
   B.   Time Limitation; Hearing Scheduled: Filing of an appeal must be within
ten (10) days of receipt or delivery of the notice of any denial, qualified
approval, suspension, revocation or civil fine. Upon receiving the notice of
such appeal, the city recorder shall schedule a hearing before a designated
hearing officer within twenty (20) days from receiving the notice, unless such
time shall be extended for good cause. (Ord. 2012-05, 6-26-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
   C.   Public Hearing: The hearing officer shall hold a public hearing on the
record and take such facts and evidence as necessary to determine whether the
denial, qualified approval, suspension, revocation or civil fine was proper
under the law.
   D.   Burden Of Proof: The burden of proof shall be on the city. (Ord. 2008-
04, 7-22-2008)
   E.   Recommended Decision: After the hearing, the hearing officer shall have
seven (7) business days, unless extended for good cause, in which to render
findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommended decision to the city
council. (Ord. 2012-05, 6-26-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
   F.   Objections: Either party may object to the recommendation of the
hearing officer by filing the party's objection and reasons, in writing, to the
city council within seven (7) days following the recommendation. In the event
the hearing officer recommends upholding a suspension or revocation, the
license shall be immediately suspended and shall remain suspended until any
subsequent appeal is decided. If no objections are received within the seven
(7) days, the city council may immediately adopt the recommendation of the
hearing officer. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
   G.   Consideration: If objections are received, the city council shall have
ten (10) business days to consider such objections before issuing the mayor's
final decision. The city council may, in its discretion, take additional
evidence or require written memorandum on issues of fact or law. The standard
by which the city council shall review the decision of the hearing officer is
whether substantial evidence exists in the record to support the hearing
officer's recommendation. (Ord. 2012-05, 6-26-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
   H.   Judicial Review: An applicant aggrieved by the city council's decision
shall have judicial review of such decision pursuant to rule 65.B., Utah rules
of civil procedure, or any other applicable ordinance, statute or rule
providing for such review. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-4-25: PENALTY:
In addition to revocation or suspension of a license, as provided in this
chapter, each violation of this chapter may require the licensee to pay a civil
penalty in the amount specified by the city council in the current consolidated
fee schedule. Such fines shall be deducted from the cost bond posted pursuant
to this chapter, unless paid within ten (10) days of notice of the fine or the
final determination after any appeal. Violation of this chapter is subject to a
suit of injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. In addition
to the civil fines and injunction provided in this chapter, the violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor, punishable as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of a violation shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
CHAPTER 5
CONSUMER FIREWORKS SALES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Applicability
4-5-2: License Required
4-5-3: Definitions
4-5-4: Enforcement
4-5-5: Application For License
4-5-6: Class C Fireworks
4-5-7: Public Displays
4-5-8: Rules And Regulations
4-5-9: Unlawful Acts
4-5-10: Excluded Businesses
4-5-11: Penalty
4-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
In addition to all rules and regulations set forth in chapter 1 of this title,
the regulations contained in this chapter will apply to fireworks stand
licenses. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling
consumer (class C, 1.4G) fireworks within the city without first obtaining the
license required by this title. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in other sections of this code, the
following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings herein
prescribed:
COMBINATION FIREWORKS DEVICE: Any device containing combinations of two (2) or
more of the effects described in the definition of "ground or handheld
sparkling device" or "ground audible device", as defined in this section.
FIREWORK: Any composition or device manufactured or used for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or
detonation, but does not include model rockets, toy pistol caps, emergency
signal flares, snakes or flow worms, party poppers, wire sparklers under thirty
six inches (36") in length, matches or class A and B explosives.
GROUND AUDIBLE DEVICE: Any paper or cardboard tube containing not more than
fifty milligrams (50 mg) of pyrotechnic material that travels along the ground
(chaser) upon ignition and often produces a whistling and/or popping effect.
GROUND OR HANDHELD SPARKLING DEVICE: A. Any cylindrical tube (cylindrical
fountain) not exceeding three-fourths inch (3/4") inside diameter and
containing not more than seventy five grams (75 g) of pyrotechnic composition
which produces a shower of color and sparks upon ignition and may whistle or
pop;
   B.   Any cardboard or heavy paper cone (cone fountain) containing up to
fifty grams (50 g) of pyrotechnic composition which produces a shower of color
and sparks upon ignition and may whistle or pop;
   C.   Any cylindrical tube (illuminating torch) containing up to one hundred
grams (100 g) of pyrotechnic composition which produces colored fire upon
ignition;
   D.   Any pyrotechnic device (wheel) capable of being attached to a post or
tree containing up to six (6) (driver) units or tubes not exceeding one-half
inch (1/2") in inside diameter that each contain not more than sixty grams (60
g) of pyrotechnic composition per driver unit which revolves upon ignition
producing a shower of color and sparks and sometimes a whistling effect;
   E.   Any device similar in design and effect to a "wheel" capable of being
placed on the ground (ground spinner) and ignited; and
   F.   Any narrow paper fuseless tube (flitter sparkler) filled with
pyrotechnic composition that produces color and sparks when the popper at one
end of the tube is ignited.
TRICK NOISEMAKER: A. Any tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition that
upon ignition produces white or colored smoke (smoke device) as its primary
effect; and
   B.   Any device that produces a small report intended to surprise the user,
including:
      1.   A "booby trap" which is a small tube with a string, protruding from
both ends that ignites the friction sensitive composition in the tube when the
string is pulled;
      2.   A "snapper" which is a small paper wrapped device containing a
minute quantity of explosive composition coated on bits of sand which explodes
producing a small report;
      3.   A "trick match" which is a kitchen or book match coated with a small
quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition that produces a small shower
of sparks when ignited;
      4.   A "cigarette load" which is a small wooden peg coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition that produces a small report when the
cigarette is ignited; and
      5.   An "auto burglar alarm" which is a tube which contains pyrotechnic
composition that produces a loud whistle and smoke when ignited. A small
quantity of explosive, not exceeding fifty milligrams (50 mg), may also be used
to produce a small report. A squib is used to ignite the device. (Ord. 2008-04,
7-22-2008)
4-5-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority: Every county or municipal officer charged with the
enforcement of state and municipal laws, including all fire enforcement
officials, are charged with the responsibility to enforce this chapter.
   B.   Seizure And Destruction: Fireworks sold or offered for sale in
violation of this chapter may be seized and destroyed and any license of the
person selling or offering fireworks for sale may be revoked. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-
22-2008)
4-5-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for a consumer fireworks sales license shall be made in
writing upon the form provided by the city and shall show the information
required by chapter 1 of this title. The following shall also be provided:
   A.   Fee; Cleaning Deposit: The license fee and cleaning deposit specified
by the consolidated fee schedule. The deposit may be refunded upon site
cleaning to the satisfaction of the city.
   B.   Location: Set forth the proposed location of the temporary stand or
indoor sales location.
   C.   Insurance Certificates: Include for delivery to the city recorder,
insurance certificates evidencing public liability coverage in favor of the
applicant in the amount as established by the consolidated fee schedule; and
property damage coverage in favor of the applicant in the amount as established
by the consolidated fee schedule. Said insurance certificate shall include a
minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) product liability coverage.
   D.   Agreement To Comply: Include a statement that the licensee agrees to
comply strictly with the terms of any license granted and to furnish any
additional information upon request.
   E.   Sales Tax Permit: Include a sales tax permit.
   F.   Written Permission From Property Owner: A copy of a valid lease or
written permission from the property owner allowing the temporary or seasonal
merchant or mobile food vendor to conduct business on the property.
   G.   Access To Restroom Facility: Written permission granting use of an
existing restroom facility on or nearby the property within three hundred feet
(300') of the business location, which shall be available during all hours of
operation.
   H.   Site Plan: A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the property and its
existing features (i.e., buildings, parking stalls, drive aisles, sidewalks,
fire hydrants); the exact location of the vendor in relation to buildings,
sidewalks, roadways, driveways, fire hydrants and other important features on
the property; all components of the business with sizes/dimensions (i.e.,
temporary structure, storage bin, trash receptacle, required parking stalls);
and photographs and/or illustrations showing all components of the business
(i.e., temporary structure, storage bin, trash receptacle, signage). The site
plan and photographs/illustrations shall include all information necessary to
show compliance with the applicable zoning requirements set forth in title 11
of this code.
   I.   Electrical Plan: If power is required for the business, an electrical
plan showing the power source, how it is connected to the temporary structure,
how it is protected from the elements, wire size and location. If it is a new
power source, an electrical permit must be obtained from the city. (Ord. 2009-
15, 11-24-2009)
4-5-6: CLASS C FIREWORKS:
   A.   Hazard Not Created: No amount of retail storage or retail sales of
class C fireworks shall, by its presence, create a distinct hazard to the life,
safety of the customer, employee or property.
   B.   Indoor Sales: Properly licensed, retail class C fireworks sales may be
conducted indoors inside permanent structures. These structures must be a
nonmovable building, securely attached to a foundation, housing a business
licensed to sell merchandise in addition to fireworks. In all retail sales
locations in permanent structures, the area where fireworks are displayed or
stored shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any flammable liquid or gas, or
other highly combustible material. Fireworks shall not be stored (including
stock for sale) near exit doorways, stairways or in locations that would impede
egress.
   C.   Temporary Stands And Trailers: Properly licensed retail, class C
fireworks sales may be conducted from a temporary stand or trailer which is a
nonpermanent structure used exclusively for the sale of fireworks. Such sales
must be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Exit Doors: Each stand or trailer shall have a minimum of two (2)
approved exit doors which swing out at opposite ends of the stand. Door locking
devices, if any, shall be easily released from the inside without special
knowledge, key or effort.
      2.   Aisle: Each stand or trailer shall have a minimum three foot (3')
wide unobstructed aisle, running the length of the stand or trailer, inside and
behind the counter.
      3.   Prevention Of Customer Touching Or Handling: The pass-through
openings for sales of fireworks in stands or trailers shall be arranged to
permit the customer to view the merchandise for sale but prevent the touching
or handling of nonprepackaged fireworks by the customer.
      4.   Zoning: Temporary stands or trailers for the sale of fireworks shall
be located in properly zoned areas, at least twenty five feet (25') from other
fireworks stands or trailers, LPG, flammable liquid or gas storage and
dispensing units.
      5.   Locking Devices: If the stand or trailer is used for the overnight
storage of fireworks, it shall be equipped with suitable locking devices to
prevent unauthorized entry.
      6.   Illumination Or Heating: Stands or trailers shall not be illuminated
or heated by any device requiring an open flame or exposed heating elements.
All heaters and lighting devices shall be approved by the authority having
jurisdiction.
      7.   Entrance By General Public: The general public shall not be allowed
to enter a temporary stand or trailer.
      8.   Location And Removal Of Stand: Temporary stands and trailers shall
be located on site no earlier than fourteen (14) days before the first date of
authorized sale, and shall be removed no later than five (5) days after the
final date of authorized sale.
      9.   Deposit Or Bond: Prior to the issuance of a license, each licensee
for a temporary stand or trailer shall file with the business license official
a cash deposit, certificate of deposit or surety bond made payable to the city,
in the amount specified by the consolidated fee schedule to assure compliance
with the provisions of this section, including, but not limited to, the removal
of the stand and the cleaning of the site. In the event the licensee does not
comply or remove the stand or clean the site, the city may do so, or cause the
same to be done by other persons and the reasonable cost shall be a charge
against the licensee and his deposit or surety bond. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-5-7: PUBLIC DISPLAYS:
   A.   Permit Required: The city may, upon application in writing, upon the
posting of a suitable bond, grant a permit for the public display of fireworks
by religious, fraternal or civic organizations, fair associations, amusement
parks or other organizations. The city council is authorized to grant such
permission by resolution when such display is handled by a competent operator,
who shall be approved by the chief of police. The chief of police may consult
with the fire marshal in making his or her decision. Such display shall be of
such a character and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
chief of police and the fire marshal, after proper inspection, shall not be
hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons. After such permit
shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks
for such display shall be lawful for that purpose only.
   B.   Application For Permit: All such applications for permits shall set
forth the date, the hour and place of making such display and the place of
storing fireworks prior to the display; and further, the name of the person
making the display; and the name of the person in charge of the igniting,
firing, setting off, exploding or causing to be exploded such fireworks. The
location of the storage place shall be subject to the approval of the chief of
police, who may consult with the fire marshal. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
   C.   Bond Or Liability Insurance: Any application for permit as herein
provided shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance insuring the
licensee and naming the city as an additional insured, conditioned for the
payment of all damages which may be caused either to a person or to property by
reason of the display so licensed and arising from any acts of the licensee,
his agents or employees. Such insurance shall be in a sum not less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person and three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence for bodily injury, and fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) per person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
per occurrence for property damage and no city officer or licensing agent or
other representative of the city shall in any event issue any permit
hereinabove referred to until such certificate of insurance has been furnished
and passed upon by the city manager and the city attorney as to form and
sufficiency. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-5-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All retail sales of consumer fireworks authorized by this chapter shall be
subject to the following rules and regulations:
   A.   Authority: The city council may adopt rules establishing minimum safety
standards, reasonable under the circumstances, for the retail storage, retail
handling and retail sale of common fireworks.
   B.   Dates Authorized:
      1.   Sales: Fireworks may be sold on or between June 20 and July 25; or
between December 20 and January 2; and fifteen (15) days before and on the
Chinese New Year.
      2.   Discharge: Fireworks may be discharged three (3) days prior to, on
the day of and three (3) days following July 4, July 24, January 1 and the
Chinese New Year.
      3.   Sign Posted: A sign, clearly visible to the general public, shall be
posted at all fireworks sales locations indicating the legal dates for
discharge of fireworks.
   C.   Supervision: All fireworks retail sales locations shall be under the
direct supervision of a responsible person who is sixteen (16) years of age or
older. A salesperson shall remain at the sales location at all times, unless
suitable locking devices are provided to prevent the unauthorized access to the
merchandise by others, or the merchandise shall be removed.
   D.   Sales To Minors: Fireworks shall not be sold to any person under the
age of sixteen (16) years, unless accompanied by an adult.
   E.   Building Construction: Buildings and temporary stands or trailers for
the retail sales of fireworks shall be constructed in compliance with local
regulations or if none, in accordance with nationally recognized good practice.
   F.   Combustible Materials Cleared: All retail sales locations shall be kept
clear of dry grass or other combustible material for a distance of at least
twenty five feet (25') in all directions.
   G.   Storage Within Residential Areas: Storage of fireworks for sale shall
not be located in residential areas.
   H.   Smoking: Smoking shall not be permitted within fifty feet (50') of any
fireworks, either on display for retail sale or being stored. "Smoking
Prohibited Within 50 Feet" (or similar wording) signs shall be conspicuously
posted at all sales and storage locations.
   I.   Fire Extinguisher: All retail sales locations shall be equipped with an
approved, portable fire extinguisher having a combined rating of at least 2A:
10BC, or as required by the authority having jurisdiction. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-
2008)
4-5-9: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Sales, Possession Or Discharge Of Specific Fireworks: It is unlawful
for any person to sell or offer for retail sale, or to possess or to discharge
any fireworks in the city other than those defined as "ground or handheld
sparkling device", "ground audible device", "combination fireworks device" or
"trick noisemaker", as defined in section
4-5-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Sparklers Within Specific Distance: It shall be unlawful for any person
to ignite, explode, project or otherwise fire or use, or permit the ignition,
explosion or projection of any sparkler upon, over or onto the property of
another.
   C.   Possession Or Discharge Of Fireworks On Public Property: It is unlawful
for any person to possess or to discharge any fireworks on any public property.
Public property includes, but is not limited to, schools, city parks, the
Clearfield City building, any other property owned by the city or any other
public entity. This subsection shall not apply to events provided by or
authorized by Clearfield City. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-5-10: EXCLUDED BUSINESSES:
This chapter does not apply to the product inventories of fireworks
manufacturers, importers, distributors or wholesalers designated for shipment
directly out of the city. Nothing in this chapter shall supersede the
provisions of section 23-13-7, Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-5-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
CHAPTER 6
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Applicability
4-6-2: License Required
4-6-3: Defined
4-6-4: Application For License
4-6-5: Review And Approval Procedures
4-6-6: Rules And Regulations
4-6-7: Penalty
4-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
In addition to all rules and regulations set forth in chapter 1 of this title,
the regulations contained in this chapter will apply to pawnbroker licenses.
(Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of pawnbroker
without first having obtained the license required by this chapter. (Ord. 2008-
04, 7-22-2008)
4-6-3: DEFINED:
Any person who loans money on one or more deposits of personal property; deals
in the purchase, exchange, or possession of personal property on condition of
selling the same property back again to the pledgor or depositor; loans or
advances money on personal property by taking chattel mortgage security on the
property and takes or receives the personal property into his possession, and
who sells the unredeemed pledges; deals in the purchase, exchange, or sale of
used or secondhand merchandise or personal property; or engages in a licensed
business enterprise as a pawnshop is hereby declared to be a "pawnbroker".
(Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-6-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for a pawnbroker license shall be made in writing upon the
form provided by the city and shall show the information required by chapter 1
of this title. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-6-5: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
The process for review and approval of an application for a pawnbroker license
shall be in accordance with chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-6-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Licensee Liable For Employee Acts: The holder of a pawnbroker's license
is liable for any and all acts of his employees for any violation by them of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Record Keeping: Every pawnbroker shall keep records in accordance with
applicable state statute.
   C.   Receipts Required: It is unlawful for any pawnbroker to receive or
accept any article of personal property as a pawn or pledge, or upon which
money is lent or advanced, without issuing and delivering to the person
delivering such article, a receipt for the same, which shall bear the date,
both day and hour, when such goods are received and a description of the
article so pawned or deposited with the pawnbroker, per subsection B of this
section and the pawnbroker shall keep on file in his office a duplicate of said
receipt, which shall be open to the inspection of any police officer at all
reasonable times. Such receipts shall be numbered and a record kept thereof.
   D.   Redemption; Pledged Articles: When a pledge is redeemed, the pawnbroker
shall place and keep on file the returned pawn ticket or receipt for such
pledge. The ticket or receipt shall at all times be open to the inspection of
any police officer. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
4-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2008-04, 7-22-2008)
CHAPTER 7
RENTAL DWELLINGS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Applicability
4-7-2: License Required
4-7-3: Application For License
4-7-4: Review And Approval Procedures
4-7-5: Rules And Regulations
4-7-6: Inspections
4-7-7: Fees
4-7-8: Good Landlord Incentive Program
4-7-9: Penalty
4-7-1: APPLICABILITY:
In addition to all rules and regulations set forth in chapter 1 of this title,
the regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to rental dwelling
licenses. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, as owner, lessee or agent thereof, to
keep, conduct, operate or maintain any rental dwelling within the city without
first obtaining the license required by this chapter. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-
2009)
4-7-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   All applications for a rental dwelling license shall be made in writing
upon the forms provided by the city. In addition to the information required by
chapter 1 of this title, an application for a rental dwelling license shall
also show:
      1.   A record, including the address, of each rental dwelling unit owned
by the applicant.
      2.   A valid e-mail address for the owner and property manager of each
rental dwelling unit.
      3.   A signed statement certifying the rental dwelling unit's compliance
with applicable safety and building codes.
   B.   Applicants who desire to participate in the city's good landlord
program shall also complete and submit the good landlord program agreement,
which shall be provided by the city. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-7-4: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
The process for review and approval of an application for a rental dwelling
license shall be in accordance with chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-
24-2009)
4-7-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   One License: Only one rental dwelling license shall be required for
each person or entity owning rental dwelling units within the city.
   B.   Amendment To License: Any licensee who acquires or sells any rental
dwelling unit within the city after licensure but before renewal shall amend
the license within thirty (30) days of acquisition or sale of the rental
dwelling unit and shall pay the fees required by this title. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-
24-2009)
4-7-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The business license official or their designee shall be permitted to
make an inspection of any rental dwelling unit to enforce any of this title or
any other applicable statute or ordinance, and may enter the building or may
enter upon the premises during regular business hours; or, if there are no
regular business hours, the business license official or their designee shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If the
property owner or other responsible person refuses to allow an inspection, the
business license official or their designee may obtain and execute a search
warrant.
   B.   No owner, occupant, or any other person having charge, care, or control
of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made
as herein provided, to properly permit entry therein by the business license
official or their designee for the purpose of inspection and examination to
ensure compliance with this title. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-7-7: FEES:
   A.   The fees for a rental dwelling license shall be in accordance with the
city's current consolidated fee schedule as approved by the city council.
   B.   A disproportionate service fee shall be paid for each rental dwelling
unit in accordance with the current consolidated fee schedule. A
disproportionate service fee shall not be charged for an owner occupied unit in
a multi-unit building.
   C.   Members of the city's good landlord incentive program shall be eligible
for a discount on the disproportionate service fee. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-7-8: GOOD LANDLORD INCENTIVE PROGRAM:
   A.   The city shall establish a good landlord incentive program that
provides discounts toward the payment of certain business licensing fees to
owners of rental dwelling units who actively implement those aspects of the
program determined by the city to be related to the control and prevention of
illegal activity on rental dwelling units, and who keep their properties free
of code violations that affect the quality of life within the city. All
applicants for a rental dwelling license shall be informed of the availability
of the program.
   B.   No discount shall be provided to any landlord unless and until the city
certifies that the requirements of this section and all other requirements of
the good landlord incentive program have been met.
   C.   No landlord shall qualify for discounts under the good landlord
incentive program unless all of the following minimum requirements are met at
the time of application for a rental dwelling license:
      1.   The landlord, or the landlord's bona fide agent for all aspects of
property management, and all managers of the landlord responsible for the day
to day management of the rental dwelling units, shall attend and complete an
acceptable landlord training program once every two (2) years.
         a.   First time applicants to the good landlord incentive program
shall be required to complete the training within six (6) months of the date of
application.
         b.   Failure to complete the program within the time frame specified
in subsection C1a of this section shall be grounds for disqualification from
the program.
         c.   Any landlord previously disqualified from the good landlord
incentive program shall be required to show evidence of completion of the
training program and compliance with the provisions of this code at the time of
reapplication to the good landlord incentive program.
      2.   The landlord shall implement and maintain those aspects of property
management determined by the city to be related to the control and prevention
of illegal activity on rental property.
      3.   The rental dwellings and the surrounding premises must be owned and
maintained in compliance with city ordinances affecting the use, care or
maintenance of real property (zoning ordinances, property maintenance
regulations, fit premises regulations, property maintenance code, housing
codes, health codes, etc.), and the premises kept free of any public nuisance
as defined by city ordinance or state law; provided, however, that a landlord
will be considered to be in compliance with this requirement if violations are
corrected in the time frame required under any notice of violation.
      4.   The landlord shall have paid any outstanding civil penalty assessed
against the landlord for failing to correct a notice of violation applicable to
the landlord's rental dwelling.
   D.   The annual discount allowed under the program against the payment of
business licensing fees attributable to rental dwellings shall be in accordance
with the city's current consolidated fee schedule.
   E.   The discount provided herein is conditioned upon the landlord's
compliance with the requirements of the program during the term of the
licensing year for which the discount is granted.
      1.   If it is determined that a landlord, or any of a landlord's rental
dwelling units, is not in compliance with the requirements of the good landlord
incentive program during any portion of the licensing period for which a
discount was provided, the landlord, together with all his or her rental
dwelling units, shall be disqualified from the program, and the discount shall
be disallowed in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of this title for
the entirety of the term of such license. The landlord shall be required to pay
the full fee for every rental dwelling unit listed on their license application
for that year.
      2.   After disqualification, the landlord may qualify for the program in
the next licensing year only if the landlord has corrected the problems leading
to the disqualification and paid all amounts disallowed in the prior year.
(Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-7-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate day a person violates any provision of this
chapter shall be a separate violation. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 8
SOLICITING
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: License Required; Exemptions
4-8-3: Definitions
4-8-4: Application For License
4-8-5: Review And Approval Procedures
4-8-6: Written Disclosures
4-8-7: Form Of License And Identification Badge
4-8-8: Maintenance Of Registry
4-8-9: Nontransferability Of License
4-8-10: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
4-8-11: "No Solicitation" Notice
4-8-12: Duties Of Solicitors
4-8-13: Time Of Day Restrictions
4-8-14: Buyer's Right To Cancel
4-8-15: Penalty
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal
safety, well being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability
to provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief,
political or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in
commerce. The city has a substantial interest in protecting the well being,
tranquility, personal safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the
ability to protect citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property.
The city also has a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or
otherwise unfair consumer sales practices as well as criminal activity.
   B.   There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the city
and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the
rights of those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city
officials derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens
regarding door to door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement
officers and those affected by door to door canvassing and solicitation, as
well as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional
protections afforded and denied persons seeking to engage in door to door
solicitation, the city adopts this chapter to promote the city's substantial
interests in:
      1.   Respecting citizen's decisions regarding privacy in their
residences;
      2.   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
      3.   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
      4.   Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
   C.   The city finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in
this chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or attempt to make a door
to door solicitation within the city without first obtaining the license
required by this chapter.
   B.   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Persons specifically invited to a residence by an owner or occupant
of the residence prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
      2.   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
state of Utah permits them to engage in door to door solicitation to offer
goods or services to an occupant of the residence;
      3.   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously
made order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a
previously made request by an owner or occupant of the residence;
      4.   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief or political position regardless of
whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with
or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
and
      5.   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
   C.   Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties
and prohibitions outlined in sections
4-8-11,
4-8-12, and
4-8-13 of this chapter while advocating or soliciting. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-
2009)
4-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in chapter 1 of this title, the
following definitions shall also apply for the purposes of this chapter:
ADVOCATING: Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities.
BCI OR BACKGROUND CHECK: An original or copy, dated no more than one hundred
eighty (180) days prior to the date of the application, of either:
   A.   A Utah department of public safety bureau of criminal identification
verified criminal history report personal to the applicant; or
   B.   Verification by the Utah department of public safety bureau of criminal
identification that no criminal history rising to the level of a disqualifying
status exists for the applicant.
CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES: Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a charitable organization.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Includes any person, joint venture, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation, association, group, or other entity:
   A.   That is:
1. A benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic, humane,
patriotic, religious, social welfare or advocacy, public health, environmental
or conservation, or civic organization; or
2. For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter
fraternal association; or
3. Established for any charitable purpose; and
   B.   That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the internal revenue
code of 1986 as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
   C.   Charitable organization includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or
similar affiliate or any person soliciting contributions within the state for a
charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the
city or state of Utah 1 .
COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI background
check, two (2) copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant
to establish proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no
contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Any activity requiring the denial or revocation of a
license by the business license official, including the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
1. Felony homicide;
2. Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
3. The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
4. Sexual assault of any kind;
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for:
1. Felony homicide;
2. Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
3. The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
4. Sexual assault of any kind;
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison for any reason within the past five (5) years;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of:
1. Moral turpitude; or
2. Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   F.   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that:
1. The applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud or
intentional misrepresentation; or
2. That a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor was nondischargeable in
bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19);
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
   H.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction; or
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to engage
in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a
competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for processing
the application, performing the BCI background check, and issuing the license
and/or identification badge.
FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment that would be recognized under state law
as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables
of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided, or
sold.
HOME SOLICITATION SALE: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services
by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation, regardless
of:
   A.   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   B.   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   C.   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor,
peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salespersons", "No Trespassing", or words of
similar import.
POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against, or
in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current solicitor's
license by the city.
REGISTRATION: The process used by the business license official to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a license will be granted,
denied, or revoked.
RELIGIOUS BELIEF: Any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption
or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless of whether or
not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or public or
private entity.
RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that is
occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights of
way.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent individual
in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be
made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a temporary sales tax number,
computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services, paying the
sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service
(s) that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under
any applicable federal, state, or local law.
SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
SOLICITING OR SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought.
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications.
   C.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity.
   D.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services.
   E.   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home
solicitation sale.
   F.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
   G.   To make or attempt to make a door to door solicitation.
SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: Any person(s) engaged in door to door solicitation.
SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written, or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by the city;
   B.   By any of the following:
1. A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or other
city employees with publicly available identification of their name, address,
and any other reliable means of contact;
2. City law enforcement or the business license official or designee; or
3. Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level of
government;
   C.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
1. Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying status of
a registered solicitor;
2. Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a disqualifying
status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying status;
3. Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has engaged in
repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the registered
solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
4. Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor creates
exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or welfare of any
individuals or entities within the city. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. Charitable solicitation act, UCA § 13-22-2(1)(a), (b).
4-8-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for a solicitor's license shall be made in writing upon the
forms provided by the city. In addition to the information required by chapter
1 of this title, an application for a solicitor's license shall also show:
   A.   Proof Of Identity: An in person verification by the business license
official or designee of the applicant's true identity by use of any of the
following which bear a photograph of said applicant:
      1.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
      2.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      3.   A valid identification card issued by any state; or
      4.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   B.   Proof Of Registration With Department Of Commerce: The applicant shall
provide proof of registration with the Utah state department of commerce.
   C.   Temporary Sales Tax Number: The applicant shall provide the temporary
sales tax number for which he or she will be soliciting.
   D.   Marketing Information:
      1.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names; and
      2.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   E.   BCI Background Check: The applicant shall provide an original or a copy
of a BCI background check.
   F.   Responses To Questions Determining Disqualifying Status: The applicant
shall be required to answer each of the following questions on the application
form:
      1.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of: a) felony homicide,
b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor, c) the sale or
distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual assault of any kind?
      2.   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for: a) felony homicide, b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting
a minor, c) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual
assault of any kind?
      3.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten (10) years?
      4.   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison for
any reason within the past five (5) years?
      5.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five (5) years involving a crime of: a) moral turpitude, or b) violent
or aggravated conduct involving persons or property?
      6.   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant within
the last five (5) years indicating that: a) the applicant had either engaged in
fraud or intentional misrepresentation, or b) that a debt of the applicant was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)(4),
(a)(6), or (a)(19)?
      7.   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest
or subject to a tracking device?
      8.   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction?
      9.   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction?
   G.   Fee: The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the license and/or identification badge.
   H.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-8-5: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
The process for review and approval of an application for a solicitor's license
shall be in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of this title. (Ord.
2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-8-6: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form for a solicitor's license shall be accompanied by written
disclosures notifying the applicant of the following:
   A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the city to
verify information submitted with the completed application including:
      1.   The applicant's address;
      2.   The applicant's and/or responsible person or entity's state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any; and
      3.   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity;
   B.   The city may consult any publicly available sources for information on
the applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments;
   C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed;
   D.   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application;
   E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application;
   F.   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection;
   G.   The city will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
license is granted, denied, or revoked;
   H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or revocation of a
license under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-8-7: FORM OF LICENSE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   License Form: Should the business license official determine that the
applicant is entitled to a license, the business license official shall issue a
license to the applicant. The license shall list the name of the registered
solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date on which
the license expires. The license shall be dated and signed by the business
license official. The license shall be carried by the registered solicitor at
all times while soliciting in the city.
   B.   Identification Badge: For each solicitor's license issued, the city
shall also issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that shall
be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city. The
identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain:
      1.   The name of the registered solicitor;
      2.   The address and phone number of the registered solicitor, or the
name, address, and phone number of the responsible person or entity;
      3.   A recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and
      4.   The date on which the license expires. (Ord. 2009-15, 11-24-2009)
4-8-8: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The business license official shall maintain and make available for public
inspection a copy or record of every completed application received and the
license or written denial issued by the city. The applicant's BCI background
check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for
public inspection. The business license official may furnish to the police
chief or city council a listing of all applicants, those denied or revoked, and
those issued a license. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-12-2010)
4-8-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A solicitor's license shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and
shall list the responsible party or entity, if any. The license shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different: a) goods or services; or b)
responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the business
license official. An amended license, based on the new information, shall be
issued for the balance of time remaining on the registered solicitor's previous
license before the amendment was filed. Before the amended license is given to
the registered solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised
identification badge from the city, after payment of the fee for the amended
license and identification badge. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-12-2010)
4-8-10: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   A solicitor shall immediately disclose the following to the consumer
during face to face solicitation:
      1.   The name of the solicitor;
      2.   The name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is
associated; and
      3.   The purpose of the solicitor's contact with the person and/or
competent individual.
This requirement may be satisfied through the use of the identification badge
and an informational flier.
   C.   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the
granting of a solicitor's license implies any endorsement by the city of the
solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-
12-2010)
4-8-11: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a "no solicitation" sign which shall be posted on or
near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence
for the presence of any such notice.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are
exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
2010-02, 1-12-2010)
4-8-12: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any "no soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "no
solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted, such solicitor shall
desist from any efforts to solicit at the property, residence or dwelling and
shall immediately depart from such property. Possession of a solicitor's
license does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a "no
solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in advocating, a home solicitation sale, door to door
soliciting, or soliciting.
   C.   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   D.   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an owner, tenant, or lawful
occupant of private property to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   E.   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with, or touch another person without the person's consent.
   F.   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   G.   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor.
   H.   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures. (Ord. 2010-
02, 1-12-2010)
4-8-13: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Mountain time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the
resident to do so. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-12-2010)
4-8-14: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by section 70C-5-103, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, or a current version thereof or any state or federal law
modifying or amending such provision. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-12-2010)
4-8-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate day a person violates any provision of this
chapter shall be a separate violation. (Ord. 2010-02, 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 9
TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL MERCHANTS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Applicability
4-9-2: License Required
4-9-3: Application For License
4-9-4: Review And Approval Procedures
4-9-5: Rules And Regulations
4-9-6: Penalty
4-9-1: APPLICABILITY:
In addition to the rules and regulations set forth in chapter 1 of this title,
the regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to temporary or seasonal
merchants. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017)
4-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, as owner, lessee or agent thereof, to
engage in the business of temporary or seasonal merchant within the City
without first obtaining the license required by this chapter, except as
otherwise provided. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017)
4-9-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   All applications for a temporary or seasonal merchant's license shall
be made in writing upon the forms provided by the City.
   B.   In addition to the information required by chapter 1 of this title, an
application for a temporary or seasonal merchant's license shall also show:
      1.   A copy of a valid lease or written permission from the property
owner allowing the temporary or seasonal merchant to conduct business on the
property.
      2.   Written permission granting use of an existing restroom facility on
or nearby the property within three hundred feet (300') of the business
location, which shall be available during all hours of operation.
      3.   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the property and its existing
features (i.e., buildings, parking stalls, drive aisles, sidewalks, fire
hydrants); the exact location of the vendor in relation to buildings,
sidewalks, roadways, driveways, fire hydrants and other important features on
the property; all components of the business with sizes/dimensions (i.e.,
temporary structure, storage bin, trash receptacle, required parking stalls);
and photographs and/or illustrations showing all components of the business
(i.e., temporary structure, storage bin, trash receptacle, signage). The site
plan and photographs/illustrations shall include all information necessary to
show compliance with the applicable zoning requirements set forth in title 11
of this Code.
      4.   If power is required for the business, an electrical plan showing
the power source, how it is connected to the temporary structure, how it is
protected from the elements, wire size and location. If it is a new power
source, an electrical permit must be obtained from the City. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-
25-2017)
4-9-4: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
The process for review and approval of an application for a temporary or
seasonal merchant's license shall be in accordance with chapter 1 of this
title. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017)
4-9-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: Each temporary or seasonal merchant
shall comply with the applicable zoning requirements set forth in title 11 of
this Code.
   B.   Hours Of Operation: No temporary or seasonal merchant shall conduct
business before six o'clock (6:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   C.   Location On Private Property: Each temporary or seasonal merchant and
any activity associated therewith shall be located on private property and only
as a secondary use to another primary commercial use. The business shall not be
located on public property (including public sidewalks, public streets, public
parking areas or other public places as defined by the City) or on vacant or
residentially used property, regardless of the land use zone. This regulation
shall not apply to temporary or seasonal merchants participating in a City
sponsored event or activity.
   D.   Temporary Nature: All aspects of a temporary or seasonal merchant shall
be temporary in nature with no permanent facilities constructed on site, with
the exception of the required permanent power source. No overnight parking or
outdoor storage shall be allowed.
   E.   Clientele: Temporary or seasonal merchants shall serve walk-up traffic
only; drive-up window service shall be prohibited.
   F.   Time Limit On Location: Each temporary or seasonal merchant shall be
limited to a period of not more than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days
on any property or parcel of land in the City within a twelve (12) month
period. Within any twelve (12) month period no more than one temporary or
seasonal merchant selling a product or type of product shall be permitted on
any one site or parcel of real property. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017)
4-9-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each separate day a person violates any provision of this
chapter shall be a separate violation. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017)
CHAPTER 10
RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY LICENSES
SECTION:
4-10-1: Applicability
4-10-2: License Required
4-10-3: Definitions
4-10-4: Review And Approval Procedures
4-10-5: Rules And Regulations
4-10-6: Denial Or Revocation
4-10-7: Penalty
4-10-1: APPLICABILITY:
In addition to all rules and regulations set forth in chapter 1 of this title,
the regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to retail tobacco
specialty businesses. (Ord. 2012-04, 6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
4-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of conducting a retail
tobacco specialty business within the city without first obtaining the licenses
required by this chapter and chapter 1 of this title. Except as provided in
subsection A of this section, and beginning July 1, 2012, a business entity
that conducts a retail tobacco specialty business within the city shall be
licensed.
   A.   Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-8-41.6 (as amended), a
retail tobacco specialty business that has a business license and is operating
lawfully in a municipality on or before May 8, 2012, is not subject to
additional zoning requirements exclusively applicable to retail tobacco
specialty businesses as set forth in section
11-13-30 of this code.
   B.   A retail tobacco specialty business may maintain an exemption under
subsection A of this section only if:
      1.   The business license is renewed continuously without relapse or
permanent revocation;
      2.   The retail tobacco specialty license is not closed for business or
otherwise suspends the sale of tobacco products for more than sixty (60)
consecutive days;
      3.   The retail tobacco specialty business does not substantially change
the business premises or its business operation; and
      4.   The retail tobacco specialty business maintains the right to operate
under the terms of other applicable laws, including zoning ordinances, building
codes, and the original business license issued prior to May 8, 2012. (Ord.
2012-04, 6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
4-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in other sections of this code, the
following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings herein
prescribed:
COMMUNITY LOCATION: A public or private kindergarten, elementary, middle,
junior high, or high school, a licensed childcare facility or preschool, a
trade or technical school, a church, a public library, a public playground, a
public park, a youth center or other space used primarily for youth oriented
activities, a public recreational facility, or a public arcade.
RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS: A commercial establishment in which the sale
of tobacco products accounts for more than thirty five percent (35%) of the
total annual gross receipts for the establishment, where food and beverage
products (excluding gasoline sales) is less than forty five percent (45%) of
the total annual gross receipts for the establishment, and the establishment is
not licensed as a pharmacy under Utah code, title 58, chapter 17b, pharmacy
practice act.
TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA: Any equipment, product, or material of any kind which is
used, intended to use, or designed for use to package, repackage, store,
contain, conceal, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce a cigar, cigarette, or
tobacco in any form into the human body, including:
   A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with or
without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
   B.   Water pipes;
   C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
   D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
   E.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as a
cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
   F.   Chamber pipes;
   G.   Carburetor pipes;
   H.   Electric pipes;
   I.   Air driven pipes;
   J.   Chillums;
   K.   Bongs; and
   L.   Ice pipes or chillers,
but not including matches or lighters.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette as defined in
Utah Code Annotated 76-10-101; or a tobacco product as defined in Utah Code
Annotated 59-14-102, including: chewing tobacco; or any substitute for a
tobacco product, including flavoring or additives to tobacco; and tobacco
paraphernalia as defined in Utah Code Annotated 76-10-104.1. (Ord. 2012-04, 6-
12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
4-10-4: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
The process for review and approval of an application for a retail tobacco
specialty business license shall be in accordance with chapter 1 of this title.
The following shall also be provided:
   A.   A site plan, drawn to scale, shall include all information necessary to
show compliance with the applicable zoning requirements set forth in title 11
of this code, including the following:
      1.   Location of the proposed business that includes adjacent properties
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of business.
      2.   All adjacent properties shall be labeled with the existing business
name and/or use.
      3.   If a community location, agricultural or residential use, or other
retail tobacco specialty businesses are located within one thousand feet
(1,000') or less, then dimensions on the site plan shall be provided.
         a.   The measurements will be taken from the nearest entrance of the
retail tobacco specialty business to the nearest property boundary of the
community location, agricultural or residential use, or other retail tobacco
specialty business, without regard to intervening structures or zoning
districts. (Ord. 2012-04, 6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
4-10-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: Each retail tobacco specialty
license shall comply with the applicable zoning requirements set forth in title
11 of this code.
   B.   Providing Tobacco Products To Minors: It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly, intentionally, recklessly, or with criminal negligence provide any
tobacco product to any person under nineteen (19) years of age. Any person who
violates this subsection is guilty of a class C misdemeanor on the first
offense, a class B misdemeanor on the second offense, and a class A misdemeanor
on subsequent offenses.
   C.   Providing Tobacco Paraphernalia To Minors: It is unlawful for a person
to, knowingly, intentionally, recklessly, or with criminal negligence provide
any tobacco paraphernalia to any person under nineteen (19) years of age. Any
person who violates this subsection is guilty of a class C misdemeanor on the
first offense and a class B misdemeanor on subsequent offenses. (Ord. 2012-04,
6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
4-10-6: DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
In addition to the reasons set forth in chapter 1 of this title for denial or
revocation of a license, the business license official may deny or revoke a
retail tobacco specialty license:
   A.   If a licensee engages in a pattern of unlawful activity under Utah
code, title 76, chapter 10, part 16, pattern of unlawful activity act;
   B.   If a licensee violates the regulations restricting the sale and
distribution of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to protect children and
adolescents issued by the United States food and drug administration, 21 CFR
part 1140; or
   C.   Under other provisions of state law or city ordinance. (Ord. 2012-04,
6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
4-10-7: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate day a person violates any provision of this
chapter shall be a separate violation. (Ord. 2012-04, 6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
CHAPTER 11
TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Applicability
4-11-2: License Required
4-11-3: Definitions
4-11-4: Review And Approval Procedures (Rep. by Ord. 2022-03, 2-8-2022)
4-11-5: Rules And Regulations
4-11-6: Penalty
4-11-1: APPLICABILITY:
In addition to all rules and regulations set forth in chapter 1 of this title,
the regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to tattoo or body
piercing establishments. (Ord. 2013-02, 2-12-2013)
4-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of conducting a tattoo
or body piercing business within the city without first obtaining the licenses
required by this chapter. (Ord. 2013-02, 2-12-2013)
4-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in other sections of this code, the
following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings herein
prescribed:
TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT: Any business that is engaged primarily
in the practice of physical body adornment, which includes, but is not limited
to, the following techniques: body piercing, tattooing, permanent cosmetics,
branding, and scarification. This definition does not include practices that
are considered medical procedures by the state medical board, such as implants
under the skin, which shall not be performed by a tattoo or body piercing
establishment. (Ord. 2013-02, 2-12-2013)
4-11-4: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-03, 2-8-2022)
4-11-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: Each tattoo or body piercing
license shall comply with the applicable zoning requirements set forth in title
11 of this code, or the license is subject to denial. (Ord. 2013-02, 2-12-2013)
4-11-6: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate day a person violates any provision of this
chapter shall be a separate violation. (Ord. 2013-02, 2-12-2013)
CHAPTER 12
MASSAGE BUSINESSES
SECTION:
Article I. General Provisions
4-12-1: Findings And Purpose
4-12-2: Administration And Enforcement
4-12-3: Definitions
4-12-4: Transfer Of License; Sale Of Massage Business
4-12-5: Summary Criminal History Information
Article II. Massage Business License
4-12-6: Massage Business License Required; Exemptions
4-12-7: Application For Massage Establishment, Sole Massage Therapist
Establishment, Or Outcall Massage Service License
4-12-8: Requirements For Massage Facilities
4-12-9: Referral Of Massage Establishment And Sole Massage Therapist
Establishment License Applications To Other Departments; Police Department
Notification
4-12-10: Issuance Of Massage Establishment, Sole Massage Therapist
Establishment, Or Outcall Massage Service License
4-12-11: Operating Requirements
4-12-12: Inspection
4-12-13: Suspension Or Revocation Of Massage Establishment, Sole Massage
Therapist Establishment, Or Outcall Massage Service License
Article III. Fees
4-12-14: Massage Establishments, Sole Massage Therapist Establishment, And
Outcall Massage Service Fees; Reinspection Fees
Article IV. Enforcement And Penalties
4-12-15: Notice Of Business License Violation
4-12-16: Business License Violation; Hearing And Appeal
4-12-17: Appeal Of Final Determination Of Business License Violation
4-12-18: Violations And Administrative Penalties
4-12-19: Enforcement
4-12-20: Cooperative Efforts With Law Enforcement
4-12-21: Undertaking For The General Welfare
4-12-22: Severability
4-12-23: No Conflict With State Or Federal Law
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
4-12-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Massage professionals and businesses providing massage therapy promote
public health and well-being with therapeutic practices that temper aches and
pains, ease stress, reduce blood pressure, and provide other valuable health
benefits.
   B.   In communities across the United States, illicit massage businesses are
known venues for human trafficking. Traffickers in these venues commonly
operate by opening establishments that are disguised as legitimate massage or
bodywork businesses. In the process, they secure legally required licenses and
licensure to conceal their actual activities: sex trafficking and/or forced
labor. As a result, these human trafficking venues are blending in with and
operating next to other legitimate businesses in urban business districts,
suburban strip malls, and rural towns throughout the U.S.
   C.   The city does not conflate these illicit businesses with legitimate
massage businesses and massage practitioners. This chapter seeks to exercise
the city's authority to regulate both massage practitioners and massage
businesses in such a way as to support and encourage legitimate massage
practitioners and massage businesses, while discouraging illicit massage
businesses and removing all illicit massage business from the city. (Ord. 2019-
24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall be administered through the business license official for
Clearfield city. Enforcement may include all available administrative, civil,
and/or criminal remedies available pursuant to local, state, or federal laws.
(Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
                                      The person appointed by the city manager
                                      to preside and conduct a business license
                                      violation appeal hearing under this
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER:       chapter. The hearing officer may be a
                                      department head, other than the
                                      supervisor of the business license
                                      official, or a non-city employed person
                                      with requisite skill and experience.
                                      The business license official of
BUSINESS LICENSE OFFICIAL:            Clearfield city, or any individual
                                      designated by the business license
                                      official to act on his or her behalf.
CITY:                                 Clearfield city.
                                      That badge which is issued by the city to
CITY MASSAGE THERAPIST IDENTIFICATION a licensed massage therapist that will
BADGE:                                provide massage services in a massage
                                      establishment.
                                      A payment, loan, advance, donation,
COMPENSATION:                         contribution, deposit, forgiveness of
                                      debt, or gift of money or anything of
                                      value.
                                      Having pled guilty or having received a
                                      verdict of guilty, including a verdict
                                      following a plea of nolo contendere or no
CONVICTED:                            contest to a crime, as well as entering
                                      into a plea held in abeyance or in a
                                      diversion, or any other similar type of
                                      plea agreement.
DEPARTMENT:                           The city's licensing division.
                                      The Utah Division of Occupational and
                                      Professional Licensing, which is located
                                      within the Department of Commerce and is
DOPL:                                 legislatively charged to administer and
                                      enforce specific laws related to the
                                      licensing and regulations of certain
                                      occupations and professions, including
                                      massage.
                                      A department employee responsible for
INSPECTOR:                            conducting inspections on behalf of the
                                      department.
                                      An individual who administers massage for
                                      compensation and holds a valid and active
LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPIST:           license to practice massage issued by
                                      DOPL, including those individuals that
                                      have a DOPL license as a massage
                                      apprentice.
                                      Any method of pressure on or friction
                                      against, or stroking, kneading, rubbing,
MASSAGE:                              tapping, pounding, vibrating, or
                                      stimulating the external soft pads of the
                                      body with the hands or with the aid of
                                      any apparatus or appliance.
                                      Massage establishment, outcall massage
MASSAGE BUSINESS:                     service, and sole massage therapist
                                      establishment, collectively.
                                      A fixed place of business where more than
                                      one individual administers massage for
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT:                compensation, excluding those locations
                                      where massage is provided only on an
                                      outcall basis.
                                      Any business other than a massage
                                      establishment or sole massage therapist
OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE:              establishment that provides massage for
                                      compensation at a location designated by
                                      the client rather than on its premises.
                                      Any individual, partnership, firm,
                                      association, corporation, or combination
OWNER:                                of individuals of whatever form or
                                      character with an ownership interest in a
                                      business that provides massage services.
                                      A fixed place of business solely owned by
SOLE MASSAGE THERAPIST ESTABLISHMENT: a massage therapist, which individual is
                                      the only person who provides massage for
                                      compensation.
                                      A licensed massage therapist who provides
                                      massage for compensation without any
SOLE PRACTITIONER:                    partners, associates, or employees, and
                                      absent any business relationship with a
                                      massage establishment. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-
                                      10-2019)
 
4-12-4: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; SALE OF MASSAGE BUSINESS:
   A.   No license issued by the city under this chapter shall be transferable
under any circumstances, including but not limited to the sale of the massage
business.
   B.   Upon the effective date of the sale of a massage business, the license
for the massage business shall expire. If a licensee sells a massage business,
the licensee shall promptly surrender the license to the business license
official no later than the effective date of the sale. This obligation is not
dependent on the business license official's requesting the surrender, but
arises as a result of the sale of the massage business. If the licensee fails
to surrender the license to the business license official as required by this
subsection, the business license official may, after giving the licensee notice
by mail or electronically of the proposed action and an opportunity to respond,
establish that the license has expired and hence is not a valid license, and
that it must be surrendered. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-5: SUMMARY CRIMINAL HISTORY INFORMATION:
The business license official may require the submission of local, state, and
federal level summary criminal history information for licensing, and/or
certification of massage businesses and massage practitioners, and for the
suspension or revocation of licenses, and/or certification of massage
businesses and massage practitioners, and may not disseminate the information
to a private entity. The business license official may not accept a summary
report that is greater than three (3) months old prior to submission, and may
require a summary report to be updated at any given time. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-
2019)
ARTICLE II. MASSAGE BUSINESS LICENSE
4-12-6: MASSAGE BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any owner of a massage
establishment, sole massage therapist establishment, or outcall massage service
to operate that massage business at any location in the city without first
obtaining a license for such massage business from the business license
official. In the event that a business owner or operator disclaims that the
business is a massage business, the business license official may hold a
hearing to determine whether a license under this chapter is required.
   B.   Exemptions: The following businesses may provide massage services
without obtaining a massage business license:
      1.   Businesses providing massage services performed solely by
physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, nurses, or any physical
therapists, who are duly licensed to practice their respective professions in
the state of Utah and persons working directly under the supervision of or at
the direction of such licensed persons, working at the same location as the
licensed person, and administering massage services subject to review or
oversight by the licensed person.
      2.   Businesses providing massage services performed solely by barbers or
cosmetologists who are duly licensed under the laws of the state of Utah, while
engaging in practices within the scope of their licenses, and limited to the
massaging of the neck, face, scalp, hands, or feet of the clients.
      3.   Hospitals, nursing homes, mental health facilities, or any other
health facilities duly licensed by the state of Utah, providing massage
services performed solely by their employees acting within the scope of their
employment. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-7: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT, SOLE MASSAGE THERAPIST
ESTABLISHMENT, OR OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE LICENSE:
   A.   Application Requirements: To apply for a massage establishment, sole
massage therapist establishment, or outcall massage service license, the owner
shall:
      1.   File an application with the business license official upon a form
provided by the business license official;
      2.   Provide a complete set of fingerprints in the manner required by the
business license official from any person with an ownership interest in the
massage business for the purpose of undergoing a criminal background check;
      3.   Pay a non-refundable application fee, as set forth in the city's
consolidated fee schedule; and
      4.   License inspection of any massage facilities proposed to be operated
under the license by all relevant city departments, including but not limited
to the department of building inspection, the planning department, and the fire
department.
   B.   Applicant Information: The application form shall require the applicant
to provide, under penalty of perjury, the following information:
      1.   The name(s), address(es), and any other identifying information
regarding the owner(s) as requested by the business license official;
      2.   A description of all services to be rendered by the massage
business;
      3.   The address of any facilities proposed to be operated under a
massage establishment or sole massage therapist establishment license, and a
copy of the rental agreement or lease showing the names of the landlord and all
of the tenants or lessees who are parties to the rental agreement; or, if the
owner owns the premises, a copy of the deed and a disclosure of any other
person or entity with a shared ownership interest in the premises;
      4.   The number of individuals to be employed by the massage business,
and, except in the case of a sole massage therapist establishment, the names
and licenses of any massage therapists who shall operate under that license;
      5.   All licenses, certificates, or licenses related to the practice of
massage or the operation of a massage establishment or massage service,
currently or formerly held by an owner, issued in Clearfield city or elsewhere,
including any discipline imposed by the issuing authority and a statement
whether the license holder is currently the subject of a disciplinary process;
      6.   All felony or misdemeanor convictions for each person with an
ownership interest in the massage business;
      7.   A floor plan of the proposed massage establishment, indicating the
location of all massage treatment rooms, massage tables, massage chairs, and
employee areas;
      8.   A certificate of insurance against liability for workers
compensation or proof of self-insurance in accordance with the provisions of
the Utah Labor Code; and
      9.   Any additional information as required by the business license
official.
   C.   Organizational Owners: If the owner of the massage establishment or
outcall massage service is or includes a corporation, the name of the
corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of
incorporation together with the names and residence addresses of each of the
officers, directors, and each stockholder holding more than ten percent (10%)
of the stock of the corporation. If the owner is or includes a partnership, the
application shall set forth the name and the residence address of each of the
partners, including limited partners. If one or more of the partners is a
corporation, the provisions of this section pertaining to corporate applicants
applies. The applicant shall provide the information required in subsections
A2, B1, B5, and B6 of this section for each officer, director, and stockholder
holding more than ten percent (10%) of the stock of the corporation, or for
each partner, including limited partners.
   D.   Proof Of DOPL Certification For Sole Practitioners: In addition to the
information required under subsection B of this section, an applicant for a
sole massage therapist establishment license shall provide proof that he or she
holds a current, valid DOPL certificate.
   E.   Deadline For Submission Of Supporting Documentation: After reviewing a
massage business license application, the business license official shall
notify the applicant in writing that the application is complete and accepted
for further review, or incomplete. If the business license official deems the
application to be incomplete, the applicant shall supply the information or
documentation that is required for the application to be deemed complete. The
applicant shall have thirty (30) calendar days from the date that the business
license official provides notification that the application is incomplete to
provide all required information and/or documentation. If the applicant does
not provide such information within thirty (30) calendar days, the application
will be deemed abandoned and will not receive further consideration. (Ord.
2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-8: REQUIREMENTS FOR MASSAGE FACILITIES:
All proposed massage facilities must comply with the following requirements,
and with any rules and regulations adopted by the business license official
pursuant to section
4-12-2:
   A.   Toilet Rooms And Other Rooms: Toilet rooms shall be provided for
clients in convenient locations.
      1.   Construction of rooms used for toilets, laundry, and mop sinks, as
well as rooms used for tubs, wet tables, steam baths, saunas, and shower
stalls, shall be made of waterproof, non-absorbent materials that are easily
cleaned and shall be installed in accordance with the city's building
regulations found in title 10, as well as all other applicable state or federal
building regulations.
      2.   Plumbing fixtures in toilet rooms as well as rooms used for tubs,
steam baths, and showers shall be installed in accordance with the
International Pluming Code, as adopted by the city in title 10, city's building
regulations.
      3.   Urinals may be substituted for toilets after one toilet has been
provided.
      4.   Doors to toilet rooms shall open inward.
   B.   Handwashing Facilities: Handwashing facilities shall be provided within
or adjacent to the toilet rooms and shall be equipped with an adequate supply
of hot and cold running water under pressure.
      1.   Handwashing facilities must provide liquid hand soap in a pump or a
wall-mounted dispenser and sanitary wall mounted disposable paper towels.
      2.   Handwashing facilities shall be readily accessible to massage
practitioners.
   C.   Light And Ventilation: All portions of the massage establishment shall
be provided with adequate light by means of windows, skylights, or with an
approved artificial light. Adequate ventilation shall be provided by means of
windows or a mechanical operating ventilating system.
      1.   Toilet, dressing, and massage rooms shall be provided with at least
one hundred eight (108) lux (ten (10) foot candles) of light.
      2.   All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the National Electric Code, as adopted by the city in title 10,
city's building regulations. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-9: REFERRAL OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT AND SOLE MASSAGE THERAPIST
ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE APPLICATIONS TO OTHER DEPARTMENTS; POLICE DEPARTMENT
NOTIFICATION:
   A.   Code Review: The business license official, within fourteen (14)
calendar days of receiving an application for a license to operate a massage
establishment or sole massage therapist establishment shall refer the
application to the city department of building inspection and the city police,
fire, and planning departments. Said departments shall inspect the facilities
proposed to be operated as a massage establishment or a sole massage therapist
establishment and shall make written findings to the business license official
concerning compliance with codes that they administer.
   B.   Law Enforcement: The business license official shall notify the police
department of all approved and denied massage business license applications.
(Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-10: ISSUANCE OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT, SOLE MASSAGE THERAPIST
ESTABLISHMENT, OR OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE LICENSE:
   A.   Within sixty (60) calendar business days following receipt of a
completed application for a massage business license, or, for applications
subject to referral under section
4-12-9, within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving all written findings,
whichever is later, the business license official shall either issue the
license or mail a written statement of his or her reasons for denial thereof to
the applicant. If the business license official takes neither action, the
license shall be deemed issued.
   B.   No massage establishment, sole massage therapist establishment, or
outcall massage service license shall be issued if the business license
official finds:
      1.   The applicant has provided materially false information, documents,
or testimony in support of the application or in any other matter before the
business license official; or
      2.   The facilities as proposed by the applicant would not comply with
all applicable laws including, but not limited to, the facilities requirements
set forth in section
4-12-8, the city building, planning, housing, and fire codes, or any rule or
regulation related to massage facilities adopted by the business license
official pursuant to this chapter; or
      3.   Within thirty six (36) months prior to the application, the
applicant has had any license or license of any kind suspended or revoked by
the business license official; or
      4.   Prior to the date of application, the applicant has had any license,
certificate, or license related to the practice of massage or operation of a
massage establishment or massage service revoked; or
      5.   The applicant has been convicted of any of the following offenses,
at any time prior to making application:
         a.   Any offense involving the use of coercion, force, or violence
upon another person; or
         b.   Any misdemeanor sexual battery; or
         c.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children; or
         d.   Any offense involving pimping or pandering; or
         e.   Any offense related to human trafficking; or
         f.   Any offense requiring registration pursuant to title 77, chapter
41 of the Utah Code Annotated; or
      6.   Sanitation violations pursuant to section
4-12-11A.
      7.   The business license official revoked permission to operate a
massage business at the same location within the prior thirty six (36) months;
or
      8.   The business license official finds that the premises or the massage
business will be or is being managed, conducted, or maintained in such a manner
as to endanger the health and safety of the employees or clients, or to coerce
any employee to engage in illegal conduct; or
      9.   The applicant has not fully complied with the provisions of this
chapter; or
      10.   The applicant has not demonstrated eligibility for a license under
this chapter.
   C.   Right To Request For Reconsideration Of Denial By Business License
Official: If an application for a massage establishment, sole practitioner
massage establishment, or an outcall massage service permit is denied, the
applicant may make a request for reconsideration to the business license
official within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date listed on the notice of
denial by notifying the business license official in writing and explaining the
ground or grounds for reconsideration. Within ten (10) calendar days of receipt
of the request for reconsideration, the business license official shall review
the records, and at the discretion of the business license official, may hold a
hearing to consider the request for reconsideration, before issuing a final
written decision.
   D.   Right To Appeal Business License Official's Final Written Decision: If
an application for a massage establishment, sole massage therapist
establishment, or an outcall massage service license is denied after a business
license official's request for reconsideration pursuant to division C, the
applicant may appeal the denial to the city manager within fourteen (14)
calendar days of the date listed on the notice of denial by submitting a
written notice of appeal to the city recorder. This appeal shall be a review of
the written basis for appeal, any written response from the city, and the
record. No testimony will be provided. The written appeal shall include the
following:
      1.   A brief basis for appeal, no more than two (2) pages.
         a.   The format for the written appeal shall be twelve (12) point
font, double-spaced, on standard sized (eight and a half by eleven inch (8.5" x
11")) paper, with one inch margins;
      2.   A complete and accurate copy of all documents provided by the
applicant to be considered during the business license official hearing; and
      3.   A complete and accurate copy of the business license official's
final written decision from the request for reconsideration.
   E.   The city may or may not submit a written response within seven (7)
calendar days to the "brief basis for appeal" under the length and formatting
requirements set forth in division D1a.
   F.   The city manager shall make a written final determination. The city
manager shall make this final determination not less than seven (7) calendar
days, but no more than fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of a timely
made appeal.
   G.   The failure of the city manager to provide a timely final determination
as outlined above shall be considered an upholding of the business license
official's final written decision. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-11: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
Massage establishments, sole massage therapist establishments, and outcall
massage services must comply with the following operating requirements to the
extent applicable:
   A.   Cleanliness And Hygiene: Massage facilities, including all appliances
and apparatuses, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
      1.   Adequate and suitable space shall be provided for storage of clean
linens, including, but not limited to, sheets, towels, and apparel.
      2.   Clean sheets and towels shall be provided, laundered after each use,
and stored in a sanitary manner.
      3.   No towels or sheets shall be laundered or dried on the premises in
the absence of suitable laundry facilities.
      4.   Smooth, cleanable, and appropriately labeled receptacles for the
storage of soiled linens and towels shall be provided.
      5.   Soiled refuse shall be appropriately bagged and disposed of.
      6.   Wet and dry heat rooms, shower compartments, and toilet rooms shall
be thoroughly cleaned each business day.
      7.   Bathtubs shall be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized after each use.
      8.   The facility shall be free of vermin, including, but not limited to,
cockroaches, mice, rats, and other pests that carry disease.
   B.   Changing Area: A room, enclosure, or designated area shall be provided
where clients can change and store their clothes.
   C.   Employee Area: A room, enclosure, or designated area that is separate
from the toilet, massage room(s), steam room, or other common areas shared by
the clients shall be made available to employees at all times. The employee
area(s) shall be furnished with individual lockers and adequate storage space
for employees' personal belongings. Members of the public may not have access
to the employee area.
   D.   Employment Of Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to employ any
individual who is not at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   E.   Register Of Practitioners: Every massage establishment or outcall
massage service that hires or contracts with individuals to provide massage
services shall ensure at all times that each such individual holds a valid and
current DOPL certificate, as well as a city massage therapist identification
badge. The massage establishment or outcall massage service shall maintain a
register of practitioners that includes each practitioner's DOPL certificate
number and a copy of the city massage therapist identification badge, which
shall be provided to the city, as well as available for inspection by the
department at all times.
   F.   Therapist Conduct: Massage establishments shall be responsible for the
conduct of all individuals providing massage for compensation on their business
premises and shall ensure that such individuals properly display their city
massage therapist identification badge at all times while on the premises of a
massage establishment, as well as ensure that they do not wear improper attire
or engage in lewd conduct, which is generally defined as, but not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Required Attire: Massage practitioners shall remain fully clothed
while administering massage or otherwise present in a part of the massage
establishment to which the public has access (e.g., massage rooms, reception
areas, publicly accessible restrooms), including premises designated by the
client through an outcall massage service. The massage practitioner's attire
shall not include: (1) attire that is transparent, see-through, or that
substantially exposes the practitioner's undergarments; (2) swim attire, unless
the massage therapist is providing a water-based massage modality that has been
approved by DOPL; or (3) attire that exposes the individual's areolas, breasts,
buttocks, or genitals.
      2.   Lewd Conduct Prohibited: Massage practitioners shall not engage in
lewd conduct on business premises, including locations designated by the client
through an outcall massage service. Lewd acts include, but are not limited to:
the performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation,
bestiality, copulation (oral, anal or vaginal), or flagellation; the actual or
simulated caressing or fondling by one adult human being of the anus, genitals
or breasts, of another adult human being; the actual or simulated displaying of
the pubic hair, anus, vagina, penis, vulva, buttocks, areola, or any other
external genitalia of the human body. The existence of clothing, a towel, or
any other such matter material on or covering either or both the massage
practitioner or client does not alleviate the above restricted conduct, nor is
it a defense to prohibited conduct.
   G.   Locks: Doors that permit entry into any treatment room may not be
equipped with locks or any device designed to prevent, impede, or delay entry
into a room. Massage establishment exterior doors may be equipped with locks,
but shall remain unlocked while the massage establishment is open. Exterior
doors may remain locked while the massage establishment is open only if there
is no more than one employee or independent contractor on the premises of the
establishment, exclusive of the establishment owner.
   H.   No Alcohol Or Illegal Drugs Permitted On Premises: No alcoholic
beverages or drugs may be sold, served, used, or possessed on business premises
during business hours.
   I.   Human Trafficking Information Notices: Massage establishments must post
in a conspicuous place near the public entrance of the establishment or in
another conspicuous location in clear view of the public and employees, the
following notice, which is provided by the city:
      "If you or someone you know is being forced to engage in any activity and
cannot leave-whether it is commercial sex, housework, farm work, construction,
factory, retail, or restaurant work, or any other activity-text 233733 (Be
Free) or call the National Human Trafficking Hotline at 1-888-373-7888 or the
Utah Human Trafficking Tipline at 801-200-3443 to access help and services.
   J.   Residential Use: Massage facility premises shall not be used as a
sleeping room or for any other residential purpose. A massage establishment
shall be presumed to be used for residential purposes if any of the following
items are maintained on the premises:
      1.   Beds or mattresses, other than professional massage tables;
      2.   Bedding, such as pillows, blankets, and sheets, other than those
used for professional massage tables;
      3.   Sleepwear, including but not limited to, pajamas, nightgowns, and
lingerie;
      4.   Groceries that require cooking, such as raw meats, poultry, fish,
and grains; or
      5.   Clothing that exceeds one change of clothing for each employee or
independent contractor who is present on the premises.
   K.   Establishment License To Be Displayed: Every license to operate a
massage establishment or sole massage therapist establishment shall be
displayed in a conspicuous place within the establishment such that the license
may be readily seen by individuals entering the premises.
   L.   Outcall Massage Service License Subject To Inspection: Every license to
operate an outcall massage service must be made available for inspection by the
department at all times while providing massage services.
   M.   Hours Of Operation: No massage business shall operate or provide
massage services, and no customer or person not employed or contracted by the
massage business may be on the premises of a massage establishment, during the
hours between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   N.   Advertising: No massage business shall publish or distribute, or cause
to be published or distributed, including on the internet, any advertising for
services that would violate this chapter.
   O.   Operation Of Massage School Prohibited: No massage business shall
operate a massage school or otherwise provide instruction in massage on the
premises of a massage establishment. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-12: INSPECTION:
Any member of the department may inspect any massage establishment or sole
massage therapist establishment to determine whether the establishment is
operating in compliance with the provisions of local, state, or federal laws,
or for the purpose of providing educational materials to employees of the
establishment in culturally and linguistically appropriate languages regarding
employee rights and information on a variety of resources, including linkage to
health care services, victim services, and emergency numbers and hotlines to
call for information and assistance. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to limit or restrict the lawful authority of a police officer or other city
employee to enter premises licensed under this chapter. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-
2019)
4-12-13: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT, SOLE MASSAGE
THERAPIST ESTABLISHMENT, OR OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation: The business license official may
revoke or suspend any massage establishment, sole massage therapist
establishment, or outcall massage service license, if the business license
official finds:
      1.   Facts sufficient to support the denial of such license on any ground
set forth in section
4-12-10; or
      2.   The licensee or the licensee's agent, employee, or independent
contractor has refused to permit a lawful inspection of its business premises
or its operations, or has interfered with city staff in the performance of an
inspection such as by threatening them, touching them, or intentionally
delaying their entry to the premises of the massage business; or
      3.   The licensee or the licensee's agent, employee, or independent
contractor has engaged in any conduct in connection with the operation of the
business that violates the operating requirements set forth in this chapter,
any rules or regulations related to massage business operations, or any local,
state or federal laws relating to the practice of massage or the operation of a
massage business; or
      4.   The business license official determines that such massage business
is being managed, conducted, or maintained without regard for public health or
the health of clients or employees, or without due regard for proper sanitation
and hygiene.
   B.   The business license official may not suspend or revoke a massage
business license under this chapter until the business license official has
issued a notice of business license violation and provided the massage business
and the owner of the property upon which the massage business is located an
opportunity to be heard and respond as provided in section
4-12-16.
   C.   Notwithstanding subsection B, the business license official may suspend
summarily any massage business license issued under this chapter when, in the
judgment of the business license official, a public health hazard requires such
summary suspension, or the business license official deems the summary
suspension to be in the best interest of the public. The business license
official shall provide written notice of such summary suspension to the license
holder pursuant to the service defined in section
1-16B-3. No more than three calendar days after written notice of such summary
suspension is given, the (3) business license official shall issue a notice of
business license violation identifying the alleged acts or failures to act that
constitute the basis for the summary suspension, and provide the massage
business an opportunity to be heard and respond as provided in section
4-12-16, as to why the summary suspension should end. However, the time for
hearing and decision shall be accelerated as follows:
      1.   Upon a timely request for a hearing, the business license official
shall set any requested hearing within fourteen (14) calendar days, unless time
is extended by mutual agreement of the affected parties; and
      2.   The business license official, or designee, who shall have the same
authority as the business license official to hear and decide the case, and
make any orders consistent with this chapter, shall issue a decision on the
summary suspension within seven (7) calendar days after hearing.
   D.   If the licensee appeals a decision by the business license official or
designee upholding a summary suspension, the summary suspension shall remain in
effect pending a final decision of the appeal. Where a license is revoked after
a summary suspension, the revocation shall be effective immediately and, if the
licensee further appeals, shall remain in effect pending a final decision of
the appeal. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
ARTICLE III. FEES
4-12-14: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS, SOLE MASSAGE THERAPIST ESTABLISHMENT, AND
OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE FEES; REINSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Massage Establishments: The application fee for a massage establishment
license shall be set forth in the city's consolidated fee schedule. The annual
license fee for a massage establishment shall be set forth in the city's
consolidated fee schedule. The fee shall be due annually.
   B.   Sole Massage Therapist Establishments: The application fee for a sole
massage therapist establishment license shall be set forth in the city's
consolidated fee schedule. The annual license fee for a sole massage therapist
establishment shall be set forth in the city's consolidated fee schedule. The
fee shall be due annually.
   C.   Outcall Massage Services: The application fee for an outcall massage
service license shall be set forth in the city's consolidated fee schedule. The
annual license fee for an outcall massage service shall be set forth in the
city's consolidated fee schedule. The fee shall be due annually.
   D.   Exception: A licensed massage therapist holding a sole massage
therapist establishment license shall not be required to pay any additional
application or annual license fee for an outcall massage service license.
   E.   Reinspection Fees: If an inspection discloses a violation of any
provision of this code or of any state law for which the city is responsible
for enforcement, the city shall determine a period of time that is reasonable
to correct the violation and shall thereafter reinspect the property to verify
such correction. The term "reinspection" shall refer to any inspection by the
department to verify whether an owner has corrected a violation. The massage
business shall pay a fee as set forth in the city's consolidated fee schedule,
to compensate the department for its costs in performing the reinspection.
Reinspections that require more than one hour to complete shall be subject to
an additional fee, as set forth in the city's consolidated fee schedule. If
more than one reinspection is necessary to secure correction of a violation,
the massage business shall pay a fee in the amount set forth herein for each
reinspection. In the event that the massage business fails to pay any
reinspection fee due under this section within thirty (30) days of the due
date, the massage business must pay a late payment penalty, as set forth in the
city's consolidated fee schedule and the city may collect the reinspection fee
through the placement of a lien in the amount of the fee and any late payment
penalty owed or delinquent, plus interest of one and a half percent (1.5%) per
month, against the real property pursuant to the procedures set forth in
section
1-16B-21, recovery of fees and costs. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
ARTICLE IV. ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
4-12-15: NOTICE OF BUSINESS LICENSE VIOLATION:
   A.   If the business license official determines that a massage business is
operating in violation of this chapter, (which is deemed in the entirety of
this section to include a violation of a license condition and/or a violation
of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter), the business
license official may issue a notice of business license violation to the
massage business, the owner of real property where the violation occurred, and/
or any other persons the business license official deems responsible for
causing the violation.
   B.   The notice of business license violation shall include the following
information:
      1.   That the business license official has made a determination the
massage business has operated in violation of this chapter;
      2.   The alleged acts or failures to act that constitute the basis for
the business license official's determination;
      3.   That the business license official intends to take enforcement
action against the massage business, owner of real property, and/or any other
person deemed responsible for causing the violation(s), and the nature of that
action, including the administrative penalty and enforcement costs to be
imposed, and/or the suspension or revocation of the massage establishment
license(s);
      4.   That the massage business, owner of real property, and/or any other
person deemed responsible for causing the violation(s) has the right to request
a hearing before the administrative hearing officer for the city, and that said
request for a hearing must be made in writing within ten (10) calendar days
after the notice of business license violation is served. Service shall be in
accordance with section
1-16B-3.
   C.   If no request for a hearing is filed with the business license official
within the appropriate period, the right to request a hearing shall be deemed
waived, and the business license official's determination shall become final
and effective ten (10) calendar days after the notice of business license
violation is served. The business license official shall issue an order
imposing the enforcement action, and shall send the order to the persons served
with the notice of business license violation. In subsequent civil proceedings,
such violations shall be deemed not to have been corrected. Where no hearing is
timely requested, an order suspending or revoking a license is final. The
failure of the person on whom the notice of business license violation is
served to request a hearing shall constitute a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies and shall preclude the person from obtaining judicial
review of the validity of the enforcement action. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-16: BUSINESS LICENSE VIOLATION; HEARING AND APPEAL:
   A.   Purpose: The city finds that there is a need to establish uniform
procedures for business license hearings conducted pursuant to this chapter. It
is the purpose and intent of the city to afford due process of law to any
person who is directly affected by a business license violation. Due process of
law includes notice, an explanation of the accusations, and an opportunity to
be heard prior to imposition of a penalty. These procedures are also intended
to establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly review and
resolve issues raised in any notice of business license violation.
   B.   Request For Business License Violation Appeal Hearing:
      1.   An owner of a massage business has the right to request a business
license violation appeal hearing by filing a written request and paying the
required filing fee, if the request is filed within ten (10) calendar days
after the notice of business license violation is served.
      2.   As soon as practicable after receiving a request for hearing, the
city manager or his or her designee shall arrange for and appoint an
administrative hearing officer, and the administrative hearing officer will
schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing, and will serve written notice
of the same to all known owners.
      3.   Failure to timely request a hearing as provided shall constitute a
waiver of the right to a hearing and a waiver of the right to challenge the
city's action set out in the notice of violation. Such a failure to request a
hearing will result in a default judgment being entered upholding the notice of
violation and assessing accrued fees, penalties and costs.
   C.   Procedures At Business License Violation Appeal Hearings:
      1.   Informal In Nature: Business license violation appeal hearings are
intended to be informal in nature. The formal Utah Rules of Evidence and
Discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of relevant documents and
other evidence may be required at the discretion of the administrative hearing
officer.
      2.   Discovery Requests: Discovery requests must be in writing directed
to the opposing party. Failure to timely request discovery shall preclude a
continuance to enable additional discovery or investigation.
      3.   Personal Information Protected: A complainant's personal identifying
information is protected and shall not be released unless the complainant is a
witness at the hearing.
      4.   Burden Of Proof:
         a.   The city bears the burden of proof at a business license
violation appeal hearing requested to substantively challenge a notice of
business violation.
         b.   At a hearing challenging the suspension or revocation of a
massage business license, the owner of the massage business will bear the
burden of proof and persuasion with respect to the claim that a violation did
not occur.
      5.   Standard Of Proof: The standard of proof to be used by the
administrative hearing officer in deciding any issue at a business license
violation appeal hearing is the preponderance of the evidence. A preponderance
of the evidence shows what is more likely than not.
      6.   Activities Allowed To Support Case: Each party shall have the
opportunity to cross examine witnesses and present evidence in support of his
or her case. If approved in advance by the administrative hearing officer,
testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means.
      7.   Hearings Open To Public: All hearings are open to the public.
Hearings shall be recorded to enable verbatim transcripts to be prepared as
needed.
      8.   Representation By Attorney: The owner of a massage business may be
represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be representing the owner at
the hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and telephone number must
be given to the city's business license official at least seventy two (72)
hours prior to the hearing. If timely notice is not given, and an attorney
appears for an owner, the hearing will be continued at the city's request, and
any costs of the continuance will be assessed to the owner.
      9.   Fee Refund If Violation Dismissed: If the administrative hearing
officer dismisses the notice of business license violation entirely, the
hearing fee shall be refunded to the owner who paid it.
   D.   Failure To Attend A Business License Appeal Hearing: Any owner named in
a business license notice of violation who fails to appear at a duly noticed
hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, which will result in a
default judgment entered for the city as to that owner and massage business.
(Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-17: APPEAL OF FINAL DETERMINATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE VIOLATION:
   A.   Judicial Review: Any person adversely affected by any final business
license violation determination issued following a business license violation
appeal hearing, may file a petition for review of the final business license
violation appeal determination in the District Court within thirty (30) days
after the date of the final business license violation appeal determination.
   B.   Exhaustion Of Administrative Remedies: No person may challenge in
District Court a final business license violation appeal determination until
that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.
   C.   Obtaining The Administrative Record For Judicial Review: Within thirty
(30) days after submitting a petition for review in the District Court, the
party petitioning for judicial review shall request a copy of the record of the
business license violation appeal hearing, including transcripts if required by
the District Court. The city shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to
the reviewing court until the party petitioning for judicial review has paid
all required copying and transcription costs. The petitioning party's failure
to properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the full costs for the
record, within sixty (60) days after the petition for review was filed shall be
grounds for dismissal of the petition. The city shall have an additional sixty
(60) business days from the date of request to prepare and submit the requested
file and/or transcript.
   D.   Possible Remand Back To City: If a transcript of a hearing cannot be
prepared because the tape recording is incomplete or unintelligible, and there
is no other reliable record of the business license violation appeal hearing
otherwise available, the District Court may, in its discretion, remand the
matter back to the city for a supplemental proceeding to create a usable
record.
   E.   District Court Review On The Record: The District Court's review is
limited to the evidence in the record of the business license violation appeal
determination that is being reviewed, and not a new trial or hearing on the
facts or evidence. The court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is
not part of the city's record.
   F.   Scope Of District Court Review; Burden Of Proof: The District Court
shall:
      1.   Presume that the business license violation appeal determination on
review is valid; and
      2.   Review the record to determine whether or not the evidence available
to the administrative hearing officer shows that the order was arbitrary,
capricious, or illegal.
      3.   The petitioner for review has the burden of proof before the
District Court. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-18: VIOLATIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant to section
4-12-2 may, after being provided notice and an opportunity to be heard, be
subject to the following monetary and license penalties. The business license
official or administrative hearing officer may impose administrative fines and/
or license penalties that exceed those listed below where the business license
official or administrative hearing officer finds that such higher fines and/or
penalties are necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the health and
well-being of a massage business' employees, customers, and/or neighbors.
      1.   Massage Business Operating Without A Massage Business License:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
day of operating without a license; and
         b.   License Penalty: Business location and owner of massage business
ineligible for a massage business license for one hundred eight (180) days.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Same penalties as A1a and A1b.
      2.   Massage Business Employing Any Person Under Eighteen (18) Years of
Age:
         a.   Administrative Fine: None.
         b.   License Penalty: Mandatory revocation of massage business
license. Massage business licensee ineligible for a subsequent license for one
hundred eighty (180) days.
      3.   Solicitation Citations, Charges, Or Convictions, As Defined By Utah
Code Annotated, For Anyone Working At Massage Establishment:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to be paid
by massage establishment licensee; and
         b.   License Penalty: Mandatory sixty (60) to one hundred twenty (120)
days suspension of massage establishment license.
         c.   Repeat Violations; Revocation: Licensee ineligible for a
subsequent massage establishment license at any location for a period of two
(2) years.
      4.   Trafficking Charges Or Convictions, As Defined By Utah Code
Annotated, For Anyone Working At Massage Establishment:
         a.   Administrative Fine: None.
         b.   License Penalty; Revocation: Licensee ineligible for a subsequent
massage establishment license at any location.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Same penalty as A4b.
      5.   Massage Establishment Or Outcall Massage Service Employing
Individual Without DOPL Certification To Administer Massage:
         a.   Administrative Fine: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to be paid
by massage business licensee.
         b.   License Penalty: None.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Fifteen (15) to thirty (30) day suspension of
massage business license and up to two thousand five hundred dollar ($2,500.00)
fine for second occurrence; thirty (30) to sixty (60) day suspension or
revocation of massage business license, and up to five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) fine for third occurrence.
      6.   Massage Facilities Used For Residential Sleeping Purposes:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         b.   License Penalty: None.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Fifteen (15) to thirty (30) day suspension of
massage business license and up to two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) fine for second occurrence; thirty (30) to sixty (60) day
suspension of massage business license and up to five thousand dollar
($5,000.00) fine for third occurrence.
      7.   Presence Of Beds Instead Of Or In Addition To Massage Tables:
         a.   Administrative Fine: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         b.   License Penalty: None.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Fifteen (15) to thirty (30) day suspension of
massage business license and up to two thousand five hundred dollar ($2,500.00)
fine for second occurrence; thirty (30) to sixty (60) day suspension of massage
business license and up to five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) fine for third
occurrence.
      8.   Any Massage Service Provider Improperly Attired In Violation Of
Section
4-12-11F:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
person found to be improperly attired, to be paid by massage business licensee.
         b.   License Penalty: Sixty (60) day suspension of massage business
license for each person found to be improperly attired.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Up to one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) fine per person to be paid by massage business licensee for second
and each subsequent occurrence; one hundred eighty (180) day suspension of
massage therapist license and revocation of massage business license.
      9.   Sanitation Violations Pursuant To Section
4-12-11A:
         a.   Administrative Fine: None on first offense.
         b.   License Penalty: None on first offense.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) fine
and sixty (60) day suspension of massage business license.
      10.   Massage Business Operating Between The Hours Of Ten O'Clock (10:00)
P.M. And Seven O'Clock (7:00) A.M.:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         b.   License Penalty: Fifteen (15) to thirty (30) day suspension of
massage business license.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Thirty (30) to sixty (60) day suspension and
up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for second occurrence;
sixty (60) to ninety (90) day suspension and up to five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) fine for third and each subsequent occurrence.
      11.   Anyone Engaged In Lewd Conduct Or Performing Sex Acts As Defined In
Section
4-12-11F On Massage Business Premises:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) to be paid by massage business licensee; and
         b.   License Penalty: Revocation of massage business license.
         c.   Additional: License holder ineligible for subsequent massage
business license for a period of five (5) years from the date of license
revocation.
      12.   Failure To Post Notices As Required By Section
4-12-11I:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Written warning for first violation, two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for second and each subsequent violation within
twelve (12) months.
         b.   License Penalty: Thirty (30) day suspension of massage business
license for third and subsequent violations.
      13.   Failure To Properly Display A Valid Massage Therapist
Identification Badge, As Required By Section
4-12-11F:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to be
paid by massage business; and
         b.   License Penalty: None.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Thirty (30) to sixty (60) day suspension and
up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for second occurrence;
sixty (60) to ninety (90) day suspension and up to five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) fine for third and each subsequent occurrence.
      14.   Publishing Advertising In Violation Of Section
4-12-11M:
         a.   Administrative Fine: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) fine.
         b.   License Penalty: Thirty (30) day suspension of massage business
license for second and subsequent violations.
      15.   Interfering With City Staff In Their Performance Of An Inspection,
As Prohibited By Section
4-12-13A2:
         a.   Administrative Fine: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) fine to be
paid by massage business licensee.
         b.   Repeat Violations: Two thousand five hundred dollar ($2,500.00)
fine and thirty (30) day suspension of massage business license for second
occurrence; revocation of massage business license for third occurrence.
      16.   Equipping Interior Doors With Locks Or Locking Devices, Or Locking
Exterior Doors, In Violation Of Section
4-12-11G:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         b.   License Penalty: Fifteen (15) to thirty (30) day suspension of
massage business license.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Thirty (30) to sixty (60) day suspension and
up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for second occurrence;
sixty (60) to ninety (90) day suspension and up to five thousand dollar
($5,000.00) fine for third and each subsequent occurrence.
      17.   All Other Violations Of State Or County Health Codes, And This
Chapter's Massage Business Regulations:
         a.   Administrative Fine: Up to one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine.
         b.   License Penalty: Possible suspension or revocation.
         c.   Repeat Violations: Up to two thousand five hundred dollar
($2,500.00) fine for the second violation and possible license suspension or
revocation; up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for the third and
subsequent violations, and license suspension or revocation.
   B.   Notice To Property Owner: Written notice of each notice of violation
that proposes to suspend or revoke a massage business license shall be served
on the owner(s) of the property upon which the massage business is located, at
the same time and in the same manner as required by section
4-12-15.
   C.   Payment And Collection Of Administrative Penalty And Enforcement Costs:
Any administrative penalty and/or enforcement costs assessed under this chapter
is a debt to the city and shall be paid to the city. Any amount paid late
pursuant to section
4-1-11, shall be subject to an additional late fine of ten percent (10%) on the
unpaid amount. The sum of the unpaid amount and the ten percent (10%) late fine
shall accrue interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month (or fraction
thereof) until fully paid; any partial payments made shall first be applied to
accrued interest. The city may file a civil action or pursue any other legal
remedy to collect such unpaid amount, fine, and interest. In any civil action
for collection, the city shall be entitled to obtain a judgment for the unpaid
amounts, fine, and interest, and for the costs and attorneys' fees incurred by
the city in bringing such civil action.
   D.   Lien For Administrative Penalty: Where an activity or condition on real
property within the city has caused, contributed to, or been a substantial
factor in causing the violation, the business license official may initiate
proceedings to make any unpaid administrative penalty, enforcement costs, fine,
and interest, and all additional authorized costs and attorneys' fees, a lien
on the property. Such liens shall be imposed in accordance with section
1-16B-21, Utah state law, or any successor provisions. Before initiating lien
proceedings, the business license official shall send a request for payment and
clearly indicate the intent to initial lien proceedings.
   E.   No Bar To Criminal Prosecution: Nothing in this chapter shall preclude
the prosecution of anyone under any other county or state health codes, or any
other laws of the state of Utah, or the laws of the United States of America.
(Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-19: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The city may at any time institute civil proceedings for injunctive and
monetary relief including civil penalties, against any person for violations of
this chapter, without regard to whether the business license official has
issued a notice of violation, instituted abatement proceedings, scheduled or
held a hearing on a notice of violation, or issued a final decision.
   B   At any time, the business license official may refer a case for civil
enforcement, but a referral is not required for the city to bring a civil
action under subsection A.
   C.   Action For Injunction And Civil Penalty: Any person that violates any
provision of this chapter shall be enjoined and shall be subject to a civil
penalty in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, which penalty shall
be assessed and recovered in a civil action brought by the city in any court of
competent jurisdiction. In assessing the amount of the civil penalty, the court
shall consider any one or more of the relevant circumstances presented by any
of the parties to the case, including but not limited to, the following: the
nature and seriousness of the misconduct giving rise to the violation, the
number of violations, the persistence of the misconduct, the length of time
over which the misconduct occurred, the willfulness of the defendant's
misconduct, and the defendant's assets, liabilities, and net worth.
   D.   Attorneys' Fees: The prevailing party in any court case or special
proceeding to enforce this chapter shall recover reasonable attorneys' fees if
the city elects, at the initiation of the action, to seek recovery of
attorneys' fees and provides notice of such intention to the adverse party or
parties. In no court case or special proceeding shall an award of attorneys'
fees to a prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred by the city.
   E.   Remedies: Remedies under this chapter are non-exclusive and cumulative
to all other remedies available at law or equity. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-20: COOPERATIVE EFFORTS WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT:
The business license official shall work with the chief of police on issues of
common concern affecting the massage industry, such as protections against
violence in massage establishments, crimes against massage practitioners,
forced labor, or trafficking. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-21: UNDERTAKING FOR THE GENERAL WELFARE:
In regulating massage businesses and massage services as provided in this
chapter, the city is assuming an undertaking only to promote the general
welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees,
an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person
who claims that such breach proximately caused injury. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-
2019)
4-12-22: SEVERABILITY:
If any of the provisions of this chapter or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter,
including the application of such part or provisions to persons or
circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, the
provisions of this chapter are severable. (Ord. 2019-24, 9-10-2019)
4-12-23: NO CONFLICT WITH STATE OR FEDERAL LAW:
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any
requirement, power, or duty in conflict with any federal or state law. (Ord.
2019-24, 9-10-2019)
CHAPTER 13
MOBILITY DEVICES
SECTION:
4-13-1: Definitions
4-13-2: Authority To Establish Rules And Regulations
4-13-3: Compliance Responsibility
4-13-4: Requirements For Operating A Dockless Shared Mobility Device Program
4-13-5: Dockless Shared Mobility Devices - Equipment Required
4-13-6: Dockless Shared Mobility Device Program - Operating Requirements
4-13-7: Violations - Dockless Shared Mobility Device Program Operators
4-13-8: Contract-Based System For Providing Dockless Shared Mobility Device
Program Services
4-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings defined and set forth in this section.
             A voluntary association legally formed and organized to carry on a Business in Utah in
BUSINESS:    the legal name of the association, including without limitation a corporation, limited
             liability company, partnership, or sole proprietorship.
CITY:        The governmental institution and landmass contained within the boundaries of
             Clearfield City, Utah.
             The Community Development Department or such other City department or division as may
DEPARTMENT:  be designated by the city manager to have responsibility for the enforcement of this
             chapter.
DEPARTMENT   The director of the department designated by the city manager to have responsibility
DIRECTOR:    for the enforcement this chapter or the authorized designee of such director.
DEPARTMENT   Rules and regulations developed and adopted by the department director to govern
RULES AND    dockless shared mobility device services and businesses within the City.
REGULATIONS:
DOCKLESS
SHARED       A shared mobility device that a customer is not required to return to a docking
MOBILITY     station at the conclusion of a ride.
DEVICE:
DOCKLESS
SHARED
MOBILITY     The offering of a dockless shared mobility device for hire.
DEVICE
PROGRAM:
IN-SERVICE:  A shared mobility device that is deployed for use on the streets of the City.
MARKED       A public place alongside the curb of a street, or elsewhere in the City, which has
DOCKING      been designated for the exclusive deployment of shared mobility devices and has been
STATION:     marked in a manner that identifies such docking station as being set aside for that
             purpose.
MOBILITY     A valid, existing, and current contract negotiated and approved by the department for
DEVICE       providing dockless shared mobility device services within the corporate boundaries of
CONTRACT:    Clearfield City.
             A.   A self-propelled device with:
                1.   At least two (2) wheels in contact with the ground;
                2.   A braking system capable of stopping the unit under typical operating
             conditions;
                3.   An electric motor not exceeding two thousand (2,000) watts or other motor
             providing equivalent power;
                4.   Either:
MOTOR              a.   Handlebars and a deck design for a person to stand while operating the
ASSISTED     device; or
SCOOTER:           b.   Handlebars and a seat designed for a person to sit, straddle, or stand
             while operating the device; and
                5.   A design for the ability to be propelled by human power alone; and
                6.   A maximum speed of twenty (20) miles per hour on a paved level surface.
             B.   Motor Assisted Scooter does not include:
                1.   An electric assisted bicycle;
                2.   Any power-driven device used by individuals with mobility disabilities for the
             purpose of locomotion; or
                3.   A motor-driven cycle.
PERSON:      An individual, a corporation or other legal entity, a partnership, and any
             incorporated association.
SHARED       A bicycle, electric bicycle or motor-assisted scooter made available to the public for
MOBILITY     hire.
DEVICE:
SHARED
MOBILITY
DEVICE       A person offering a shared mobility device for hire. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
PROGRAM
OPERATOR:
 
4-13-2: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH RULES AND REGULATIONS:
To the extent authorized by the provisions of this chapter and consistent with
other applicable provisions of this code, the city manager, under guidance and
direction from the city council, may enter into contracts deemed necessary or
desirable and may establish rules and regulations necessary to administer the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
4-13-3: COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   All persons operating a dockless shared mobility device program shall
comply with and operate under requirements of applicable law, including without
limitation Federal, State, County and City laws and ordinances, and department
rules and regulations. Shared mobility device programs that exclusively operate
using devices that must be returned to a dock are not subject to the dockless
shared mobility device program requirements set forth herein.
   B.   No dockless shared mobility device program shall be relieved of any
responsibility for compliance with the provisions of this chapter, regardless
of whether the dockless shared mobility device program operator pays salary,
wages, or any other form of compensation. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
4-13-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATING A DOCKLESS SHARED MOBILITY DEVICE PROGRAM:
   A.   No person shall permit a dockless shared mobility device owned or
controlled by such person to be in service for hire upon the streets of
Clearfield City unless such person is authorized to do so under a business
license obtained from the City.
   B.   No person may operate a dockless shared mobility device program in the
City unless the person is authorized to do so under a business license obtained
from the City.
   C.   Each dockless shared mobility device program operator shall pay to the
City the applicable business licensing fees as set forth in the City’s
Consolidated Fee Schedule, Clearfield City Municipal Code §
2-5-1.
   D.   Insurance:
      1.   Each dockless shared mobility device program operator shall provide,
concurrent with the execution of this Agreement:
         a.   A comprehensive general liability insurance policy covering
business operations with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence with a
$5,000,000 general aggregate;
         b.   Automobile insurance coverage with a limit of at least $1,000,000
each occurrence and $1,000,000 aggregate;
         c.   Umbrella or excess liability coverage with a limit of at least
$5,000,000 each occurrence and $5,000,000 aggregate or sufficient general
liability insurance to satisfy the excess liability coverage requirement; and
         d.   Workers’ compensation insurance in an amount no less than
required by law.
      2.   A current certificate of insurance, approved by the City Attorney,
must be kept on file with the City Recorder verifying such continuing coverage
and naming the City as an additional insured on a primary and non-contributory
basis in comparison to all other insurance including City’s own policy or
policies of insurance. The certificate shall contain a special endorsement to
the effect that the City will be notified at least thirty (30) days prior to
cancellation or reduction in the limits. The City requires continuous coverage.
Cancellation of insurance will result in the automatic suspension of the
dockless shared mobility device program operator’s ability to operate until the
shared mobility device program operator provides proof of coverage in the
amounts and manner specified above.
   E.   Indemnification: Each dockless shared mobility device program operator
shall indemnify, save harmless, and defend the City, its agents and employees,
from all claims, liens, damages, demands, actions, costs, and charges,
including attorney fees, arising out of negligent, reckless or intentional
acts, errors or omissions of the dockless shared mobility device program
operator, its officers, employees, and agents. If the City’s tender of defense,
based upon this indemnity provision, is rejected by the dockless shared
mobility device program operator, and the dockless shared mobility device
program operator is later found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have
been required to indemnify the City, then in addition to any other remedies the
City may have, the dockless shared mobility device program operator shall pay
the City’s reasonable costs, expenses, and attorney fees incurred in proving
such indemnification, defending itself, or enforcing this provision. The
dockless shared mobility device program operator shall not be liable for
claims, demands, costs, losses, or damages that arise out of the City’s
negligence or willful misconduct.
   F.   Data Sharing: Dockless shared mobility device program operators will
share data with the City in accordance with the requirements set forth in Utah
Code, in city code, and in any applicable state or local regulations. (Ord.
2022-13, 6-14-2022)
4-13-5: DOCKLESS SHARED MOBILITY DEVICES - EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Dockless shared mobility device program operators will comply with all
applicable safety standards established by federal, state, or city law;
   B.   Bicycles, electric bicycles and motor assisted scooters operated as
dockless shared mobility devices will comply with the most recent applicable
safety standards promulgated by the city.
   C.   All dockless shared mobility devices will be equipped with both a
primary and a secondary braking mechanism.
   D.   All dockless shared mobility devices will be equipped with a bell or
other audible signal device used to alert pedestrians to the presence of the
dockless shared mobility device.
   E.   All dockless shared mobility devices will be equipped with Global
Positioning Satellite (“GPS”) systems.
   F.   All dockless shared mobility devices will be regularly inspected and
maintained at least every thirty (30) days by the dockless shared mobility
device program operator.
   G.   Dockless shared mobility device program operators must be able to
remotely render inoperable any dockless shared mobility device that has been
reported as being damaged or defective.
   H.   Dockless shared mobility device program operators shall provide the
City with a list individually identifying all dockless shared mobility devices.
   I.   All dockless shared mobility devices must have an identification number
prominently displayed on such device.
   J.   A dockless shared mobility device program operator shall prominently
display dockless shared mobility device program operator’s contact information,
including a toll-free phone number and an email address, on each dockless
shared mobility device deployed within the City. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
4-13-6: DOCKLESS SHARED MOBILITY DEVICE PROGRAM - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Deployment Of Dockless Shared Mobility Devices:
      1.   A dockless shared mobility device program operator may not deploy
dockless shared mobility devices within city-designated zones in quantities or
allocations that violate the regulations promulgated by the City.
   B.   Parked Dockless Shared Mobility Devices:
      1.   Dockless shared mobility devices may not be temporarily placed or
left in the following areas in such a way as to impede the normal operation of
such areas or the free flow of pedestrians and traffic:
         a.   Any multi-use path;
         b.   Any vehicle travel lane;
         c.   Any vehicle parking space;
         d.   Any UTA TRAX or FrontRunner boarding platform;
         e.   Anywhere that impedes safe access to or egress from a UTA bus;
         f.   Within fifteen (15) feet of any building access or egress,
including driveways;
         g.   Within thirty (30) feet of any ADA ramp or access of any kind;
         h.   Anywhere that impedes the use of an existing docking station or
corral for motor assisted scooters or other mobility devices.
         i.   Any areas in which leaving a shared mobility device is prohibited
pursuant to regulations promulgated by the City.
      2.   Dockless shared mobility devices may not be parked in an undocked
status in any of the following locations:
         a.   Within ten (10) feet of any Utah Transit Authority bus stop sign;
         b.   Within fifteen (15) feet of any traffic signal pole;
         c.   Within fifteen (15) feet of any utility box or other utility
structures.
      3.   Dockless shared mobility device program operators shall require
dockless shared mobility device drivers to take a photograph of their properly
parked dockless shared mobility device, or otherwise verify that they have
properly parked the dockless shared mobility device, as part of the process for
completing a dockless shared mobility device program transaction.
      4.   Upon notification, a dockless shared mobility device program
operator has two hours to move dockless shared mobility devices that have not
been parked in accordance with the restrictions set forth in this Agreement. If
the dockless shared mobility device program operator fails to remove the
improperly parked dockless shared mobility devices within the specified two-
hour time period, then the City may impound the improperly parked dockless
shared mobility devices at the dockless shared mobility device program
operator’s expense. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
4-13-7: VIOLATIONS - DOCKLESS SHARED MOBILITY DEVICE PROGRAM OPERATORS:
   A.   Violations of this chapter shall be addressed pursuant to the processes
and penalties set forth in §
1-16A-1 et. seq., of the Clearfield City Code.
   B.   Dockless shared mobility device program operators shall work with the
City, including the Department and the Clearfield City Police Department to
facilitate enforcement of this chapter with the most advanced and appropriate
available technology. Such enforcement efforts will include facilitating the
enforcement of permanent, semi-permanent, and temporary no-ride zones
designated by the City. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
4-13-8: CONTRACT-BASED SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING DOCKLESS SHARED MOBILITY DEVICE
PROGRAM SERVICES:
   A.   The City reserves the right to adopt a contract-based system to govern
the provision of dockless shared mobility device program services within the
City.
   B.   If the City hereby adopts a contract-based system for provision of
dockless shared mobility device programs, then only dockless shared mobility
device program operators selected pursuant to the City’s Purchasing Policy,
Clearfield City Municipal Code §
2-3-1 et. seq., and who have entered into a mobility device contract, as
defined in Section
4-13-1, may operate a dockless shared mobility device program upon Clearfield
City streets.
   C.   The city council shall determine the number of dockless shared mobility
device program operators that shall be awarded a mobility device contract.
   D.   The city council shall determine the total number of dockless shared
mobility devices authorized to operate in the City under all such mobility
device contracts.
   E.   Mobility Device Contracts between the City and any selected dockless
shared mobility device program operators may contain additional requirements
and restrictions beyond those set forth in the Clearfield City Municipal Code.
(Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Nuisances Declared
5-1-4: Enforcement
5-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to identify with particularity actions
constituting a nuisance so that property within the City may be maintained in a
manner that:
      1.   Protects public health and safety.
      2.   Fosters neighborhood stability.
      3.   Preserves the appearance, character, and beauty of neighborhoods.
      4.   Reflects community pride and caring.
      5.   Protects property values.
      6.   Protects and encourages economic development.
      7.   Protects the general welfare of its residents. (Ord. 2018-07, 5-22-
2018)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE: Shall refer to a hazardous object or condition on the land
that is likely to attract children who are unable to appreciate the risk posed
by the object or condition.
NOXIOUS: Shall mean harmful to health.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation and its officers,
partnership, association, firm, trustee, executor of an estate, the state or
its departments, institution, bureau, agency, municipal corporation, county,
city, political subdivision, or any legal entity recognized by law.
PROPERTY: Any form of real property, including a habitable structure or any
structure that is appurtenant thereto, object, or anything that is visible or
tangible, specifically including, but not limited to, hedges, automobiles, etc.
Property shall also include any sidewalks, park strips and gutters that border
the property.
REFUSE: Shall mean the worthless or useless part of something; trash or
garbage.
SOLID WASTE: Garbage, refuse, trash, rubbish, hazardous waste, dead animals,
sludge, liquid or semiliquid waste, and other spent, useless, unsightly,
worthless or discarded materials.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on or below
the ground, specifically including, but not limited to, fences, wells, poles,
buildings, or sheds.
VEHICLE: A motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, off highway vehicle,
manufactured home, or "mobile home", as defined by title 11, chapter 3 of this
Code, as amended. (Ord. 2018-07, 5-22-2018)
5-1-3: NUISANCES DECLARED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and declared a public nuisance for any person
owning, renting, leasing, occupying, or having charge or possession of any
property in the City to allow any of the following conditions to exist on such
property:
      1.   A condition that causes visual blight, is offensive to the senses,
creates a harborage for rodents or pests, or detrimentally affects property in
the surrounding neighborhood or community.
      2.   A condition that impairs the reasonable and lawful use of property.
      3.   A condition that unreasonably or unlawfully affects the health or
safety of one or more persons or animals.
      4.   A fire hazard as defined in the Fire Code.
      5.   Emanation of noxious or unreasonable odors, fumes, gas, smoke, soot
or cinders.
      6.   Noxious weeds located on vacant lots or other property, along public
sidewalks or outer edge of any public street, or weeds in any other location
which constitutes an unreasonable fire hazard or is contrary to the purpose of
this chapter.
      7.   Keeping or storing of any refuse and waste matter which interferes
with the reasonable enjoyment of nearby property.
      8.   Polluted or stagnant water which constitutes an unhealthy or unsafe
condition.
      9.   Accumulation of soil, litter, debris, plant trimmings, or trash, on
sidewalks, in vestibules, doorways, passages, breezeways, parking areas or any
public right-of-way or alley.
      10.   Accumulation of used or damaged lumber; junk; salvage materials;
abandoned, discarded or unused furniture; stoves, sinks, toilets, cabinets, or
other fixtures or equipment stored so as to be visible from a public street,
alley, or adjoining property. However, nothing herein shall preclude the
placement of stacked firewood for personal non-commercial use on the premises.
      11.   Any attractive nuisance dangerous to children and other persons
including, but not limited to, abandoned, broken, or neglected household
appliances, equipment and machinery, ponds, abandoned foundations or
excavations, or improperly maintained pools.
      12.   Dead, decayed, diseased, or hazardous trees, weeds, hedges, and
overgrown or uncultivated vegetation which is in a hazardous condition, is an
obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which is likely to harbor
rats, vermin or other pests.
      13.   Any front, rear, or side yard area which causes excessive dust,
water run-off, off-site tracking, or sluffing onto the property of another due
to non-maintenance or other cause, or which contains the accumulation of
debris.
      14.   The keeping, storing, depositing or accumulating on the premises or
in the public right-of-way for an unreasonable period of time dirt, sand,
gravel, concrete, or other similar materials, or maintenance of such material
on public rights-of-way.
      15.   The leaving of any garbage can or refuse container in the street,
other than on collection day, for more than twenty four (24) hours after
collection day.
      16.   Construction equipment or machinery of any type or description
parked or stored on property when it is readily visible from a public street,
alley or adjoining property, except while excavation, construction or
demolition operations covered by an active building permit are in progress on
the subject property or an adjoining property, or where the property is zoned
for the storage of construction equipment and/or machinery.
      17.   Improper maintenance of a sign; or signs which advertise a business
that is no longer operating on the property or advertising a product that is no
longer sold on the property.
      18.   Improper storage of inoperative, unregistered, abandoned, wrecked
or dismantled vehicles or vehicle parts, including recreational vehicles.
      19.   Any wall, sign, fence, gate, hedge, or structure maintained in such
condition of deterioration or disrepair as to constitute a hazard to persons or
property.
      20.   Graffiti which remains on the exterior of any building, fence, sign
or other structure and is visible from a public street.
      21.   Maintenance of buildings and/or structures in such condition as to
be deemed defective or in a condition of deterioration or disrepair including,
but not limited to:
         a.   Any building or structure which is unfit for human habitation, or
which is an unreasonable hazard to the health of people residing in the
vicinity thereof, or which presents an unreasonable fire hazard in the vicinity
where it is located;
         b.   Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered,
enlarged, converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of title 10
of this Code, or any use of land, buildings or premises in violation of title
11 of this Code;
         c.   Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed, or left in an
unreasonable state of partial construction for a period of six (6) months or
longer. An "unreasonable state of partial construction" is defined as any
unfinished building or structure where the appearance or other conditions
violate conditions as listed in subsection A21a of this section;
         d.   Buildings having dry rot, warping, termite infestation, decay,
excessive cracking, peeling, or chalking, as to render the building unsightly
and/or in a state of disrepair;
         e.   Buildings with missing doors and/or windows containing broken
glass and/or no glass at all where the window is of a type which normally
contains glass;
         f.   Building exteriors, walls, fences, gates, driveways, sidewalks,
walkways, signs or ornamentation, or alleys maintained in such condition as to
violate subsection A21a of this section; and
         g.   Buildings or conditions that violate any Building, Electrical,
Plumbing, Fire, Housing, or other Code adopted by Clearfield City.
      22.   To fail to maintain the height of weeds less than six inches (6"),
including on adjacent parking strip(s), alley(s), and street edge(s).
      23.   To fail to remove and lawfully dispose of all cuttings from weeds,
solid waste, or objects or structures with anything injurious, or with the
reasonable potential to become injurious, to the health, safety, or welfare of
any persons or property.
      24.   To fail to effectively secure any vacant structure.
      25.   To fail to maintain or repair any objects or structures that are
injurious, or with the reasonable potential to become injurious, to the health,
safety, or welfare of any persons or property.
      26.   To fail to remove all weeds and noxious vegetation from such
property and in front thereof to the curb line of the street and to keep the
sidewalks in front of such property free from litter, snow, ice or
obstructions.
      27.   To fail to remove, bury, or compost weeds that are rototilled or
removed by root.
      28.   Any plants specified as weeds in the Utah Noxious Weed Act, Utah
Code Annotated title 4, as amended.
      29.   Any violation of this Code expressly declared to be a public
nuisance. (Ord. 2018-07, 5-22-2018)
5-1-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Whenever an enforcement official finds that a violation of this Code has
occurred or continues to exist, the enforcement official has the authority and
power necessary to gain compliance with the provisions of this Code through the
administrative procedures set forth in title 1, chapter 16 of this Code, or
otherwise as permitted under State law. These powers include the power to
commence administrative or criminal enforcement procedures, issue a notice of
violation, inspect public and private property, abate violations upon private
property, and use whatever judicial and administrative remedies are available
under this Code and applicable State law. (Ord. 2018-07, 5-22-2018)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Services Provided By City
5-2-2: Use Required
5-2-3: Agreement By Specific Users
5-2-4: Collection Fees
5-2-5: Containers; Requirements, Fees
5-2-6: Penalty
5-2-1: SERVICES PROVIDED BY CITY:
The city will provide directly or by agreement with a contractor for the
collection and disposition of garbage, refuse, and recyclable materials (the
"garbage collection system") in accordance with regulations hereinafter
specified or established by ordinance or resolution of the city council. (Ord.
2015-18, 11-24-2015)
5-2-2: USE REQUIRED:
All residents of the city are required to use the garbage collection system and
to remit such fees to the city as provided in section
5-2-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-2-3: AGREEMENT BY SPECIFIC USERS:
All commercial, industrial and multi-unit dwellings within the city who request
garbage collection by the city garbage system, shall agree to the following
requirements:
   A.   Specify size and number of containers desired.
   B.   Permit the city to evaluate the property and determine if garbage
collection is possible.
   C.   Acknowledge that the city retains the right to recommend an alternate
method or deny service if garbage collection is not possible. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-
12-2009)
5-2-4: COLLECTION FEES:
   A.   Residential: Residents who occupy residential houses or multi-unit
dwellings not exceeding ten (10) units per meter within the city shall be
charged the current monthly collection fee(s) required by the city's fee
schedule.
   B.   Commercial, Industrial And Multi-Unit Dwellings In Excess Of Ten Units
Per Meter: As of July 1, 2007, the city will no longer provide this service.
   C.   Absence From City 1 : There shall be no monthly garbage fee required
for those who temporarily leave the city for four (4) consecutive weeks or
more.
      1.   Those wishing to use this program will sign an affidavit requesting
the service and agreeing in the affidavit that the garbage can will be secured
and not be used by anyone during the time of absence or the person requesting
reduction in services shall be responsible for the garbage can and burn plant
fees. Garbage fees will be waived on complete months only. Partial months will
not be eligible for fee waivers.
   D.   Billing: The city council finds that the city's solid waste collection
system, storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system and culinary water system are
interrelated services that are part of a unified city plan to provide for the
health, safety and welfare of the city and its residents in an environmentally
responsible manner. Therefore, the solid waste collection utility fee shall be
included on the city's regular monthly utility bill for any given property. The
fee shall be deemed a civil debt owed to the city by the person or entity
paying for the city utility services provided to the property. Failure to pay
any portion of the utility bill may result in termination of water service.
Billing and payment procedures to include delinquency are identified in section
9-1-9 of this code. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-8 of this code.
5-2-5: CONTAINERS; REQUIREMENTS, FEES:
Every owner, lessee or occupant of any dwelling house, building, premises or
place of business which is required or has requested garbage pick up shall be
provided a container specifically designed for the automated garbage system.
Containers to be issued and the fees based on the containers to be issued are
as follows:
   A.   Numerical Code; Assignment: All containers are numerically coded and
assigned to the property of every resident, commercial and industrial business,
and multi-unit dwelling for which garbage is collected.
   B.   Ownership: Containers are to remain on the premises, not to be removed
by the occupant. Every owner issued a container shall be held responsible for
each container issued to their account.
   C.   Issuance; Number: Residents of multi-unit dwellings not exceeding ten
(10) units per meter shall be issued one 90-gallon container per residence or
unit. Additional containers will be provided upon availability. Cost for
additional cans shall be the current monthly fee stated in the city’s fee
schedule.
   D.   Placement For Collection; Removal: Containers holding garbage and other
waste material to be collected and hauled by the city or by a person licensed
to do so, shall be set out for collection at the place and at such time as may
be designated. All empty containers must be removed from the street as soon as
practicable after being emptied, and in every case must be removed from the
street the same day they were emptied.
   E.   Closure: All garbage, paper in which garbage is encased, or market
waste must be placed in containers and shall be at all times kept securely
closed, and shall be kept in such place and in such manner as to prevent
offensive odors in the neighborhood.
   F.   Ashes: No ashes or noncombustible rubbish shall be deposited in the
same vessel or container with combustible garbage or liquid substance. No hot
ashes shall be placed out for collection or removal either in containers or
otherwise.
   G.   Exceptions To Requirements: Exceptions to the above requirements may be
granted in commercial and industrial zones in cases where the nature of the
trash and/or garbage is such as to render the foregoing procedure
impracticable. Such exceptions shall require the written approval of the chief
financial officer. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
5-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the terms of this chapter by any act of omission or
commission shall be deemed guilty of a class C misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE HAZARDS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Prohibited
5-3-2: Penalty
5-3-1: PROHIBITED:
   A.   Land Or Property: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any land or
property to allow accumulations of waste, paper, hay, grass, straw, weeds,
litter or combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any kind upon any roof
or in any court, yard, vacant lot or open space, and all weeds, grass, vines or
other growth when the same endangers property or is liable to be fired, shall
be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the property. Violations of
this subsection shall be punished as provided in section
5-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-3-2: PENALTY:
Any person refusing or neglecting to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a class C misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
CHAPTER 4
AUTOMOBILE RECYCLING AND REPAIR
SECTION:
5-4-1: Compliance
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Absorbents And Floor Dry
5-4-4: Air Bags
5-4-5: Recycling Of Antifreeze
5-4-6: Asbestos
5-4-7: Oil Filters
5-4-8: Fuel And Fuel Tanks
5-4-9: Gear Oil, Power Steering, Transmission, And Brake Fluids
5-4-10: Lead Acid Batteries
5-4-11: Lead Wheel Weights
5-4-12: Mercury Switches
5-4-13: Refrigerants
5-4-14: Shop Towels
5-4-15: Sump And Oil/Water Separator Sludge
5-4-16: Tires
5-4-17: Used Oil
5-4-18: Screening And Storage
5-4-19: Penalty
5-4-1: COMPLIANCE:
Any building or premises used for automobile recycling or automobile repair in
the city shall comply with the following regulations. Existing businesses or
premises engaged in automobile recycling or automobile repair shall have six
(6) months from the effective date hereof to come into full compliance. (Ord.
2009-16, 11-24-2009)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
AUTOMOBILE RECYCLING: Any activity that involves obtaining or storing scrap
vehicles and/or parts for the purpose of recycling the parts, selling the
vehicles or parts, using those parts to repair vehicles, or recycling the
vehicle for the purpose of recovering raw materials.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: Any activity that involves the repair of any passenger auto,
pickup truck, trailer, semitrailer, recreational vehicle or other vehicle where
the repair includes, but is not limited to, bodywork and collision repair; the
rebuilding of engines, transmissions, or differentials; electrostatic or air
gun spray painting of vehicles; inspections; tune ups; oil changes; glass,
tire, or brake work; or similar repairs. (Ord. 2009-16, 11-24-2009)
5-4-3: ABSORBENTS AND FLOOR DRY:
Accidental spills or leaks of toxic chemicals, gases, petroleum, or other
hazardous materials shall be handled as follows:
   A.   The spill shall be cleaned up within twenty four (24) hours.
   B.   The smallest amount of absorbent possible shall be used. Residual waste
shall be drained into a sump or oil/water separator.
   C.   Reusable sorbent pad or socks are preferred when using absorbents.
   D.   Absorbents shall be handled either as a solid or hazardous waste.
   E.   Closed and covered leakproof containers shall be used. (Ord. 2009-08,
5-12-2009)
5-4-4: AIR BAGS:
Air bags shall be handled as follows:
   A.   All unused air bags shall be removed.
   B.   Unused air bags shall be stored indoors and protected from the weather
until resale or disposal.
   C.   Deployed air bags shall be left in the vehicle. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-
2009)
5-4-5: RECYCLING OF ANTIFREEZE:
Antifreeze shall be handled as follows:
   A.   Antifreeze shall be drained from radiators and heater cores before
crushing or pulling parts.
   B.   Antifreeze shall be recycled on site, acquired by a licensed recycler
with appropriate manifests for transport, or if applicable, disposed as
hazardous waste with appropriate manifests.
   C.   Storage containers shall be labeled as "antifreeze for recycling" or
"waste antifreeze".
   D.   Draining antifreeze onto the ground or discharging it into a waterway
shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-6: ASBESTOS:
Asbestos shall be handled as follows:
   A.   OSHA rules (29 CFR 1910.1001) for protection of workers removing
asbestos containing materials shall be followed.
   B.   Asbestos shall be stored separate from other waste.
   C.   Asbestos waste shall be placed in plastic bags, then into a sealed,
labeled container. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-7: OIL FILTERS:
Oil filters shall be handled as follows:
   A.   The filter dome shall be punctured and drained for at least twelve (12)
hours.
   B.   Drained filters shall be stored in a separate, fireproof container
marked as "used filters".
   C.   Filters shall be recycled by a scrap metal recycler. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-
12-2009)
5-4-8: FUEL AND FUEL TANKS:
Fuel and fuel tanks shall be handled as follows:
   A.   Fuel from tanks shall be removed as soon as possible after the vehicle
enters the facility.
   B.   Determine if the fuel is reusable or waste fuel.
   C.   Waste fuel shall be disposed of in an appropriate manner.
   D.   Containers of reusable fuel shall be clearly labeled as "reusable
gasoline" or "reusable diesel".
   E.   Draining fuel onto the ground or discharging it into a waterway shall
be prohibited. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-9: GEAR OIL, POWER STEERING, TRANSMISSION, AND BRAKE FLUIDS:
Gear oil, power steering, transmission, and brake fluids shall be handled as
follows:
   A.   These items may be managed with used oil only if they have not been
mixed or contaminated with hazardous wastes, such as solvents, brake cleaner or
carburetor cleanser.
   B.   If these fluids cannot be mixed with used oil, they shall be managed as
hazardous waste.
   C.   Brake cleaner shall not be sprayed on or around containers of brake
fluid.
   D.   Oils or fluids shall not be disposed of in a storm drain, septic or
sewer system, dumpster, or on the ground.
   E.   Uncontaminated fluids shall be collected in a container clearly labeled
as "used oil", that shall be located on a sheltered and curbed, impermeable
concrete area away from any other drains.
   F.   Draining gear oil, power steering, transmission, or brake fluid onto
the ground or discharging it into a waterway shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2009-
08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-10: LEAD ACID BATTERIES:
Lead acid batteries shall be handled as follows:
   A.   The lead and acid in these batteries shall be handled as hazardous
waste.
   B.   Batteries shall be stored in such a manner that they do not release
lead or lead contaminated acid into the environment or pollute ground and
surface waters.
   C.   Batteries shall be tested to determine if they are reusable.
   D.   Cracked or leaking batteries shall be placed in closed, watertight,
acid resistant storage containers.
   E.   Batteries for recycling shall be stored on upright wooden pallets on a
bermed and covered impermeable surface.
   F.   Batteries shall be sent to a battery recycler or scrap metal recycler.
   G.   Batteries shall not be disposed of in a landfill. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-
2009)
5-4-11: LEAD WHEEL WEIGHTS:
Lead wheel weights shall be handled as follows:
   A.   Lead weights shall be removed and stored in a designated area.
   B.   They shall be protected from exposure to precipitation.
   C.   They shall be sent to an approved lead recycling facility. (Ord. 2009-
08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-12: MERCURY SWITCHES:
Mercury switches shall be handled as follows:
   A.   Mercury light switches shall be removed from the vehicles prior to
crushing and recycling in such a manner as to prevent it from being released
into the environment.
   B.   All mercury light switches (in hood and trunk) shall be removed from
the vehicle as soon as possible.
   C.   Mercury switches shall be stored in a leakproof, closed and labeled
container.
   D.   Mercury switches shall be recycled by a licensed metals recycler that
reclaims mercury.
   E.   Mercury capsules shall not be broken. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-13: REFRIGERANTS:
Refrigerants shall be handled as follows:
   A.   A certified technician shall remove refrigerants from all vehicles
using EPA approved recycling and recovery equipment.
   B.   Refrigerants shall only be sold to certified technicians or to
certified reclamation facilities that will reclaim it to its original purity
specifications. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-14: SHOP TOWELS:
Shop towels shall be handled as follows:
   A.   Used shop towels, rags or other soiled clothing that are contaminated
with toxic chemicals may be hazardous and shall be managed as hazardous waste.
   B.   Cloth towels that can be sent to a laundry service for reuse may be
used.
   C.   Waste shop towels, rags and soiled clothing shall be stored in a
closed, labeled, metal container that is protected from the weather.
   D.   Dirty towels or rags shall not be disposed of into a dumpster. (Ord.
2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-15: SUMP AND OIL/WATER SEPARATOR SLUDGE:
Sump and oil/water separator sludge shall be handled as follows:
   A.   Before disposal, sludge shall be tested professionally to determine
whether or not it is hazardous.
   B.   If sludge tests as hazardous, it shall be sent to a hazardous waste
management facility.
   C.   Sludge shall be placed in sealed containers and labeled properly.
   D.   Sludge shall not be disposed of by dumping in a dumpster or on the
ground. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-16: TIRES:
Tires shall be handled as follows:
   A.   Tires shall be regularly transported to an EPA licensed waste tire
processor.
   B.   Tires shall not be buried or burned. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-17: USED OIL:
Used oil shall be handled as follows:
   A.   Oil shall only be drained and collected on a sheltered and curbed,
impermeable concrete area away from any drains.
   B.   Used oil shall be stored in a leakproof and closed container and
labeled as "used oil only". Used oil shall be stored in such a way as to
provide secondary containment.
   C.   Waste oil shall regularly be received and transported with appropriate
manifest as a department of transportation (DOT) approved carrier to a licensed
recycling facility. Waste oil retained for heating purposes shall be stored in
accordance with subsection B of this section and shall not exceed secondary
containment capabilities. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
5-4-18: SCREENING AND STORAGE:
   A.   Any building or premises used for automobile recycling shall be
required to completely screen from public view all areas used to store scrap
vehicles and parts. The screening shall consist of a solid, view obstructing
fence or wall at least six feet (6') in height.
   B.   Any building or premises used for automobile repair shall have all
vehicles kept for repair more than forty eight (48) hours stored in an area
completely screened from public view behind a solid, well maintained, view
obstructing fence or wall at least six feet (6') in height.
   C.   All areas upon which scrap vehicles or parts are stored shall be
properly surfaced with an impervious all weather material.
   D.   Storage areas shall be fitted with an appropriate land drain and grease
trap to prevent contamination of the soil or groundwater due to stormwater
runoff.
   E.   Scrap vehicles and parts shall not be stacked higher than six feet
(6').
   F.   Storage areas shall not be used to store junk and other items not
associated with the business of automobile recycling or repair. (Ord. 2009-16,
11-24-2009)
5-4-19: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Furthermore, violation of this chapter shall be just cause
for revocation of the city business license. Revocation is applicable to
assignees, successors and heirs and no issuance or reissuance of a city
business license shall occur until full compliance with this chapter is
attained. (Ord. 2009-08, 5-12-2009)
CHAPTER 5
COMMUNITY NOISE POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
5-5-1: Applicability, Purpose, And Scope
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Substantive Provisions
5-5-4: Exemptions
5-5-5: Temporary Noise Permit And Fees
5-5-6: Inspections And Investigations
5-5-7: Enforcement
5-5-8: Criminal, Civil And Administrative Penalties
5-5-1: APPLICABILITY, PURPOSE, AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Ordinance is to establish standards for
the control of noise pollution within Clearfield City and to reduce the making
and creation of harmful sound, and to secure, protect, and promote the public
health and safety of the residents of Clearfield City.
   B.   Scope: This chapter applies to sound generated from real property
within the city and applies to all property, equipment, appliances,
instruments, and other sound emitting devices, as regulated herein. It shall
have no applicability to all aspects of the employer-employee relationship
concerning health and safety hazards within the confines of a place of
employment.
      1.   This chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul
other rules, regulations or ordinances, including this code or Utah code. If
more stringent requirements concerning noise abatement are contained in the
other rules, regulations or ordinances, the more stringent regulation shall
apply. (Ord. 2022-17, 6-28-2022)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings herein prescribed:
dBA or A-     The sound pressure level in decibels as measured with a sound level meter using
WEIGHTED      the A-weighting network. The unit for reporting is dB(A) or dBA. Sounds measured
SOUND         with the “A” weighting network approximate the response of human hearing when
PRESSURE      measuring sounds of low to moderate intensity.
LEVEL:
AMBIENT       The sound pressure level which represents the summation of the sound from all the
SOUND:        discrete sources affecting a given site at a given time, exclusive of the source
              under investigation.
BEST          Auxiliary operational procedures implemented by a business or facility that
MANAGEMENT    effectively reduce noise levels. BMPs include, but are not limited to, scheduling
PRACTICES or  of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
BMPs:         management practices or institutional controls that prevent or reduce noise
              decibel levels.
CITY:         The City of Clearfield.
COMMERCIAL
MECHANICAL    Any non-stationary power-equipment used for commercial purposes.
EQUIPMENT:
COMMERCIAL    Real property used, in whole or in part, by the owner or possessor of the
PROPERTY:     property for a commercial, industrial, retail, or other business purpose,
              regardless of the identity of the property owner.
CONSTRUCTION: Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair, alteration, or
              similar action.
CONSTRUCTION  Any mechanical apparatus used in excavation, construction, or demolition.
EQUIPMENT:
DECIBEL:      A logarithmic unit used in measuring the magnitude of sound. Decibel is
              abbreviated dB.
DEMOLITION:   Any dismantling, intentional destruction, or removal of any right-of-way
              surfaces, building, structure, utility, or similar property.
DWELLING:     A building or structure that is intended or designed to be used, rented, leased,
              let or hired out for human habitation.
DYNAMIC
BRAKING       See Title 7, Chapter 5, Section 5 of the Clearfield City Code.
DEVICE:
EMERGENCY     The equipment used to generate electrical power in the event of an interruption,
POWER         malfunction, or failure of the electrical power otherwise supplied by the service
GENERATOR:    provider.
EMERGENCY     An authorized motor vehicle, motorboat, or aircraft which can lawfully be used
VEHICLE:      for the transportation of emergency personnel, equipment, and supplies while
              responding to the scene of an emergency.
              1.   Work required to restore property to a safe condition following a disaster
              or declaration of emergency;
EMERGENCY     2.   Work required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to
WORK:         danger; or
              3.   Work to protect the public’s health, performed by private or public
              entities, for providing or restoring immediately necessary utility service, which
              absolutely cannot be done otherwise during the daytime hours.
EXHAUST       All components responsible for conducting exhaust gasses or reducing sound from a
SYSTEM:       motor vehicle including, but not limited to, mufflers, baffles, header pipes,
              manifolds, air intakes, or any other similar component.
              The value specified by the manufacturer as the recommended maximum loaded weight
GROSS VEHICLE of a single motor vehicle. In cases where trailers and tractors are separable,
WEIGHT RATING the gross combination weight rating (GCWR), which is the value specified by the
or GVWR:      manufacturer as the recommended maximum loaded weight of the combination of
              vehicle, shall be used.
HEATING,      Any system installed on or within a dwelling, facility, building or structure for
VENTILATION,  the purpose of providing heating, ventilation, or air conditioning. HVAC may
AND AIR       include furnaces, air exchangers, central air condensing units, evaporative
CONDITIONING  “swamp” coolers, heat pumps, exhaust fans, and other heating and cooling
(HVAC):       equipment.
IMPULSE       Sound of short duration, generally less than one second, especially of high
SOUND:        intensity, abrupt onset, and rapid decay, and often rapidly changing spectral
              composition.
              Those areas within the boundaries of the city used or reserved for business,
              commerce, or trade, or zoned as a highway service zone, under enabling state
              legislation or comprehensive local zoning ordinances or regulations; and
INDUSTRIAL    including those areas outside the boundaries of the city not within 8420 feet of
AREA:         an interstate highway exit, off-ramp, or turnoff as measured from the nearest
              point of the beginning or ending of the pavement widening at the exit from or
              entrance to the main-traveled way that are reserved for business, commerce, or
              trade under enabling state legislation or comprehensive local zoning ordinances
              or regulations, and are actually used for commercial or industrial purposes.
INFRASOUND:   Includes any sound frequency less than or equal to 16 Hz.
              The average measure of continuous noise that has the equivalent acoustic energy
LEQ:          of the fluctuating signal over the same time period. For the purposes of this
              ordinance, an Leq measurement will be taken for a minimum of two minutes.
MOTOR         Any vehicle required to be licensed for on-road use in the State of Utah, which
VEHICLE:      is propelled by a motorized power source.
              A properly functioning sound dissipative device or system consisting of a series
MUFFLER:      of chambers, baffle plates, or other mechanical devices for abating the sound of
              escaping exhaust gases.
MULTI-        Any building comprising two or more dwelling units, including, but not limited
DWELLING UNIT to, apartments, condominiums, co-ops, multiple family houses, townhouses, and
BUILDING:     attached residences.
NOISE:        Sound that may be harmful to health.
OFF-HIGHWAY   Any vehicle not permitted to be licensed for on-road use in the State of Utah,
VEHICLE:      which is propelled by an engine.
OWNER OR
RESPONSIBLE   See Title 1, Chapter 15C, Section 2 of the Clearfield City Code.
PERSON:
PERSON:       See Title 1, Chapter 15C, Section 2 of the Clearfield City Code.
PORTABLE      Non-stationary power equipment used for personal purposes and property
MECHANICAL    maintenance.
EQUIPMENT:
PUBLIC
ASSEMBLY/     An activity regardless of whether a ticket or payment of any type is required for
SPECIAL       admission.
EVENT:
              Space that is generally open and accessible to people. Roads (including the
              pavement), public squares and parks; to a limited extent government buildings
PUBLIC AREA:  which are open to the public, such as the Clearfield City Aquatic Center,
              Clearfield City Hall, Clearfield City Art Center, public libraries, parks, and
              playgrounds; and space jointly used by automobiles and other vehicle including
              bicyclists and pedestrians.
PURE TONE:    Any sound that can be distinctly heard as a single pitch or a set of single
              pitches.
RECEIVING     Any adjacent property that is adversely affected by noise transmitted by the
PROPERTY:     source property.
REPETITIVE    Any impulse sound repeated at intervals such that a sound level meter set at
IMPULSE       “fast” meter characteristic will show changes in sound pressure level greater
SOUND:        than 10 dB(A) within one second.
RESIDENTIAL   Real property that is occupied as a dwelling of the property owner or tenant.
PROPERTY:
SNOW REMOVAL  Any mechanical equipment used for removing snow from land or building surfaces
EQUIPMENT:    including, but not limited to, snowplows, snow blowers, snow sweepers, and any
              spreader or applicator employed to apply a snow or ice melting product.
              An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity or other
SOUND:        physical parameter in a medium with interval forces that cause compression or
              rarefaction of the medium.
SOUND LEVEL   An instrument that includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS detector, integrator, or
METER:        time averager, output meter, and weighing networks used to measure sound pressure
              levels.
SOUND         Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the RMS sound pressure
PRESSURE      to the reference pressure of 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square meter).
LEVEL:        The sound pressure level is denoted Lp or SPL and is expressed in decibels (dB).
ULTRASOUND:   Includes any sound frequency higher than 20 kHz. (Ord. 2022-17, 6-28-2022)
 
5-5-3: SUBSTANTIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Prohibition of Noise: Notwithstanding the specific noise
restrictions in Sub-section
5-5-4(F), no person shall emit, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or
fail to control the emission of any noise source so as to exceed the maximum
allowable sound pressure levels set forth in Sub-section
5-5-4(B) Table 1 when measured from the source over a two-minute (minimum)
period of time.
      1.   Notwithstanding the maximum allowable sound pressure levels
established in Table 1, no person shall emit, nor shall any person cause,
allow, permit, or fail to control the emission of any stationary noise when
measured at the property line of the source so as to exceed the sound pressure
level of either:
         a.   10 dB(A) above the ambient sound pressure level between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; or
          b.   5 dB(A) above the ambient sound pressure level between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      2.   Correction for Character of Sound. For any stationary source of
sound that emits a pure tone, cyclically varying sound, or repetitive impulsive
sound, the limits set forth in Table A shall be reduced by 5 dBA.
   B.   Maximum Permissible Sound Pressure Level Tables:
TABLE 1: MAXIMUM OUTDOOR SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS (Leq)
         Receiving Property
Source   Residential          Commercial,             Industrial
Property                      Agricultural, or Public
         7 a.m. - 10 p.m. - 7 7 a.m. - 10 10 p.m. - 7 7 a.m. - 10 10 p.m. - 7
         10 p.m.  a.m.        p.m.        a.m.        p.m.        a.m.
TABLE 1: MAXIMUM OUTDOOR SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS (Leq)
             Receiving Property
Source       Residential        Commercial,             Industrial
Property                        Agricultural, or Public
             7 a.m. - 10 p.m. - 7 a.m. - 10 10 p.m. - 7 7 a.m. - 10 10 p.m. - 7
             10 p.m.  7 a.m.    p.m.        a.m.        p.m.        a.m.
Residential  60       50        60          50          60          50
Commercial   60       50        70          60          70          60
Agricultural 60       50        70          60          70          60
Public       60       50        70          60          70          60
Industrial   60       50        70          60          80          75
 
   C.   Sound Pressure Level Measurements: Sound pressure level measurements
shall be made with a calibrated and certified Type 2 sound level meter or
better instrument as specified in the American National Standards Institute’s
(ANSI) publication S1.4-1983 (Reaffirmed 2001) entitled, “Specifications for
Sound Level Meters”, or its current successor; or the International
Electrochemical Commission (IEC) class or type 1 and 2 standard 61672.
      1.   All sound level measurements required by this ordinance shall be
taken in dBA.
   D.   Infrasound and Ultrasound: This ordinance shall not regulate any sound
emitted which is classified as infrasound (below 16 Hz) or ultrasound (above 20
kHz).
   E.   Non-Sound Based Vibrations: The transmission of vibrations that are not
sound based and which cannot be measured by a sound pressure meter are not
restricted by this Ordinance.
   F.   Specific Noise Restrictions:
      1.   Commercial Refuse Compactors: No person shall operate or use, nor
shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation or use
of any commercial refuse compactor within 300 feet of a residential property
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   G.   Construction Equipment and Activities: No person shall operate nor
shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation of any
construction equipment or conduct any construction or demolition activities:
      1.   Outside between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless a
waiver has been issued in accordance with section 5.
      2.   Inside an enclosed structure between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. if the activities create a sound level that violates the maximum sounds
levels in table 4.1 at the property line of the source.
   H.   Fireworks or Explosives: Except as provided in section
5-5-4(C), no person shall use fireworks or other explosive devices between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless a permit has been issued in accordance
with section
5-5-6. This provision shall not be construed to permit conduct prohibited by
other statutes, ordinances, or regulations governing such activity.
   I.   Commercial and Industrial Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
(HVAC) Systems: No person shall operate, install, or replace nor permit the
operation, installation, or replacement of any HVAC system installed on or
within any commercial property that exceeds the maximum allowable sound
pressure levels set forth in Table 1 when measured at the property line of the
source.
   J.   Residential Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems:
Noise resulting from the operation of a HVAC system used on or within a
residential property use, including central air conditioning units, evaporative
coolers, or window cooling units, regardless of the time or frequency of
operation, shall be exempt from this ordinance, provided the system is in good
repair and operating within manufacturer’s specifications.
   K.   Garbage Collection: No person shall collect garbage, waste, or refuse
nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the collection of
garbage, waste, or refuse within 300 feet of a residential property between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   L.   Loading/Unloading Operations: No person shall load or unload any
equipment, vehicle, box, crate, container, garbage container, or other object
or open, close, or otherwise handle these objects within 300 feet of a
residential property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   M.   Motor Vehicles:
      1.   No person shall operate or use, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation or use of any motor vehicle:
         a.   Without a noise control system that meets the original
specifications installed by the manufacturer;
         b.   Unless the noise control system is in constant operation and free
of defects that affect sound reduction;
         c.   With any cut out, bypass or similar device which increases sound
pressure levels;
         d.   When the noise control system has been modified, punctured, or
rendered inoperative; and
         e.   Unless the noise control system of the motor vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a type subject to registration, at any time or under
any condition of grade, load, acceleration or deceleration does not exceed the
maximum allowable sound pressure levels set forth in Table 2 at a distance of
25 feet or more for the category of motor vehicle, based on the legal speed
limit, posted or not, of the road on which such vehicle or vehicles are
operated using testing methods as prescribed by the City.
 
TABLE 2:
MAXIMUM SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES
                                                                             Sound Pressure
                                                                             Level, dB(A)
                                                                                      Speed Speed
                                                                             Measured limit limit
                                                                             at a     40    over
                                                                             distance mph   40
                                                                             of:      or    mph
                                                                                      less
Any motor vehicle with a manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR)          88 dB 94 dB
or gross combination weight rating (GCWR) of 10,000 pounds or more or any    25 feet  (A)   (A)
combination of vehicles towed by such motor vehicle
Any other motor vehicle and any combination of motor vehicles towed by such  25 Feet  80 dB 84 dB
motor vehicle                                                                         (A)   (A)
 
      2.   Off-Highway Vehicles. No person shall operate, nor shall any person
cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation of any off-highway
vehicle or off-road motorcycle whether or not duly registered:
         a.   Without a noise control system in constant use and in good
working order so as to prevent emission of excessive or unusual sounds.
         b.   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless:
            (1)   This activity complies with Sub-section 4.2 Table 1, or
            (2)   The vehicle use is for legitimate agricultural purposes.
      3.   Standing Motor Vehicles. Except for emergency vehicles, no person
shall operate, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control
the operation of any motor vehicle to remain in an idling mode or condition
for:
         a.   A consecutive period of 2 minutes or longer unless specified by
the manufacturer;
         b.   Any period of time while the vehicle is left unattended; or
         c.   So as to cause a noise disturbance.
      4.   Defect in Vehicle. No person shall operate, nor shall any person
cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation or use of any motor
vehicle that emits excessive or unusual noises because of disrepair or mode of
operation.
      5.   Horns and Other Signaling Devices. No person shall sound any horn or
audible signaling device on any motor vehicle, except to prevent or avoid an
accident. Any advertisement or solicitation which encourages or requests a
person to honk their horn in violation of this ordinance is expressly
prohibited.
      6.   Motorcycles and Motorcycle Exhaust Systems.
         a.   EPA Noise Emission Control Requirements. No person shall cause,
allow, permit, or fail to control the operation or use of any motorcycle
manufactured after December 31, 1982, without its required Motorcycle Noise
Emission Control Label on the motorcycle vehicle itself in accordance with 40
CFR § 205.158 and on any motorcycle exhaust system as required by 40 CFR §
205.169. i. The following is an example of an EPA Noise Control Label: “This
(manufacturer’s name) exhaust system (serial number) meets EPA Noise Emission
Requirements of (noise emission standard) dB(A) for the following motorcycles:
(list of model specific codes). Installation of this exhaust system on
motorcycle models not specified may violate federal law.”
         b.   Label Tampering. No person shall deface or allow any person to
deface any noise emission control label required by federal law which is
affixed to any motorcycle or motorcycle part for purposes of identifying the
motorcycle or motorcycle part as a federally regulated product.
         c.   Mismatched Mufflers. No person shall operate, nor shall any
person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation of any motorcycle
manufactured to federal noise law standards that does not bear a label or mark
on the exhaust system that matches the model specific code of the motorcycle
vehicle on which the system is installed.
         d.   Competition Motorcycles. No person shall operate, nor shall any
person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation of any motorcycle
identified by the noise emission control label or mark as being for
“competition use only” on any property other than within a motor sports
facility for the purpose of participating in a practice session or racing
event.
         e.   Competition Motorcycle Exhaust System. No person shall operate,
nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation of
any motorcycle fitted with an exhaust system or exhaust system component
identified by the noise emission control label or mark as being for
“competition motorcycles only” on any property other than a motor sports
facility for the purpose of participating in a practice session or racing
event.
      7.   Motor Vehicle Repair and Testing. No person shall repair, rebuild,
modify, idle, run, accelerate, or test any motor vehicle, nor any auxiliary
equipment attached to such vehicle within 300 feet of a residential property
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless such activity is conducted
within a fully enclosed facility, and complies with the conditions set forth in
sub-section
5-5-4(B) Table 1.
   N.   Parking Lot or Road Sweepers: No person shall operate, nor shall any
person cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation of any motorized
mechanical sweeper, blower, or vacuum within 300 feet of a residential property
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   O.   Portable Mechanical Equipment. Outdoor use of portable mechanical
equipment is restricted between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   P.   Music and Sound Amplification. With the exception of declaring an
emergency, no person shall operate, play, nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation or playing of any personal or
commercial sound amplification, or sound reproduction equipment, or musical
instruments, or similar devices in such a manner:
       1.   So as to exceed the maximum allowable sound pressure levels set
forth in Table 1 when measured at the property line of the source;
      2.   Which emits a plainly audible noise in a public area or within the
public or private right-of-way at a distance of 50 feet or more in any
direction from the operator between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      3.   Which emits a plainly audible noise to any person other than the
operator on public property or a public or private right-of-way between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; (this is loud cars stereos at night, also
noise in parks at night)
      4.   Which emits a plainly audible noise to any person other than the
operator when operated on a common carrier by any passenger; (this music
without earbuds on bus, train, etc.)
      5.   That the maximum sound pressure level exceeds 95 dB(A) at a point
normally occupied by a patron on the premises of an entertainment venue unless
conspicuous and legible written notification is provided to the public prior to
entrance into the venue stating “WARNING: SOUND LEVELS ON THIS PREMISES MAY
CAUSE PERMANENT HEARING DAMAGE. HEARING PROTECTION IS AVAILABLE.” In the
alternative, the above warning may be provided on a sign of a color and
lettering design in high contrast with its background and posted where it is
plainly visible at each public entrance in bold letters of at least 1" inch in
height. Every venue that may have the potential of exceeding 95 dB(A) shall
have readily available for public distribution, at a cost not excessive of
retail value, single-use earplugs that have a Noise Reduction Rating (NRR) of
at least 20 decibels. This subpart shall not be construed to permit conduct
prohibited by any other provision of this ordinance; or
      6.   To exceed 100 dB(A) at any place within an entertainment venue at
any time. (Ord. 2022-17, 6-28-2022)
5-5-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Best Management Practices. In the rare event compliance causes extreme
or undue hardship to a facility, business or community activity, the City may
allow the activity if the responsible party demonstrates to the City that best
management practices are being applied.
   B.   Emergency Events and Equipment. Noise resulting from a response to any
emergency event shall be exempt from this ordinance, including the use of
emergency equipment, emergency vehicles, emergency relief valves, emergency
work, and emergency power generators which provide emergency power or potable
water to any hospital, health clinic, nursing home, similar facilities, or
physician prescribed home based personal medical equipment where the loss of
electrical power or potable water poses an immediate risk to the health,
safety, and welfare of any person, or as required by federal or state law shall
be exempt from this ordinance. During a power failure, other commercial or
personal emergency power generators operating between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. may reach but not exceed the maximum day time sound pressure
levels set forth in Sub-section 4.2 Table 1 when measured from the receiving
property.
   C.   Fireworks. Noise resulting from lawful fireworks shall be exempt from
this ordinance when discharged:
      1.   By the public:
         a.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on the days
allowed by statute in Title 4, Chapter 5, except that on July 4 and July 24,
the hours are 11:00 a.m. to midnight;
         b.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. December 31 and 1:00 a.m. the
following day, except when New Year’s Eve falls on a Sunday and the local
municipality determines to celebrate New Year’s Eve on the prior Saturday; and
         c.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. on Chinese New Year’s Eve and 1:
00 a.m. the following day.
      2.   By a licensed display or special effects operator to conduct a
professional fireworks display:
         a.   Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         b.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and midnight on the day
officially celebrated as and including July 4th and July 24th.
         c.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. for a special
event sponsored by a local municipality.
         d.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. the
following day; and
         e.   Between the hours of 11:00 a.m. on Chinese New Year’s Eve and 1:
00 a.m. of the following day.
   D.   Agricultural Practices. Noise resulting from the use of farm equipment
or off-highway implements of husbandry for recognized and acceptable
agricultural practices shall be exempt from this ordinance provided that:
      1.   All reasonable efforts have been made to minimize the impact on the
community;
       2.   The equipment is operating within manufacturer’s specifications;
       3.   All noise control systems are in constant use, in good working
order, and in compliance with this ordinance;
       4.   All equipment is in good mechanical working condition so as to not
emit excessive or unusual sounds;
      5.   The equipment or activities do not create a nuisance in any land
district; and
       6.   The equipment is used between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         a.   This part shall not be construed to prohibit noises resulting
from agricultural equipment between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. that
result from harvesting a crop or other similar activity within an
agriculturally zoned area.
   E.   Portable Mechanical Equipment. Noise resulting from the use of portable
mechanical equipment shall be exempt from this ordinance between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. in residentially zoned areas so long as the equipment
is in good repair, performs a legitimate service, and is being used according
to the manufacturer’s specifications.
   F.   Crowd Noise. Noise directly resulting from crowd noise associated with
a lawful public assembly shall be exempt from this ordinance.
   G.   Snow Removal. Noise resulting from the operation of snow removal
equipment shall be exempt from this ordinance;
       1.   For a residential property: Beginning at 4:00 a.m. when snow has
accumulated during the prior 12 hours;
       2.   At any time for a commercial or industrial property NOT within 300
feet of a residential property; and
       3.   At any time on any street, avenue, road, boulevard, or highway when
created by the operation of snow removal equipment by a governing entity.
    H.   Residential Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems.
Nose resulting from the operation of a HVAC system used on or within a
residential property use, including central air conditioning units, evaporative
coolers, or window cooling units, regardless of the time or frequency of
operation, shall be exempt from this ordinance, provided the system is in good
repair, unmodified, and operating within manufacturer’s specifications. (Ord.
2022-17, 6-28-2022)
5-5-5: TEMPORARY NOISE PERMIT AND FEES:
    A.   The City may issue a permit waiving the requirements and restrictions
of this ordinance on the basis of undue hardship, for a good cause shown
through competent evidence, or for a temporary event. The City may establish
and require any reasonable conditions or requirements deemed necessary to
minimize adverse health effects upon a community as a condition to issuing a
permit. The City may, but is not requires to waive the requirements of this
section at its discretion.
       1.   Temporary Noise/Special Event Permit Requirements.
          a.   Application: To apply for a Temporary Noise Permit, the
applicant shall complete and submit the City-approved application form.
          b.   Permit Duration: A Temporary Noise Permit is valid only at the
location stated in the application and for the length of time approved by the
City on the application.
      2.   Notice Requirements.
          a.   Upon approval of any permit granted by the City, the applicant
shall notify, in writing, each dwelling and facility located within 800 feet
(one city block) of the event or activity, unless otherwise required by the
City, at least 48 hours in advance. The City shall approve the content of each
notice before it is distributed.
          b.   The notice shall contain the following information:
            (1)   The name of the event or company name;
            (2)   The name of the coordinator or project manager;
            (3)   The contact phone number(s) of the coordinator or project
manager;
            (4)   The name and contact phone number(s) of the on-site manager;
            (5)   The address of the event;
            (6)   The specific date(s) and operating time;
            (7)   A detailed description of the activities; and
            (8)   A brief description of all measures taken to maximize the
abatement of the noise emission (or to minimize the noise emission) by means of
Source Reduction Practices, Best Management Practices, and Best Operational
Practices.
   B.   The City may establish and collect appropriate fees for licenses,
certificates, and permits as set out in this ordinance. The City may collect
appropriate fees as set out in this ordinance for the performance of services,
including plan reviews. If information on a license, certificate, or permit
application changes, the applicant shall notify the City in writing within 20
calendar days.
      1.   Temporary Noise/Special Event Permit Fee. Any applicant who applies
for a temporary noise/special event permit shall remit to the City a Permit fee
in the amount set forth in the City’s consolidated fee schedule.
       2.   Waiver of Fee for Government Agencies or Departments. The City may
waive the temporary noise/special event permit fees for governmental agencies
or departments provided compliance with all other requirements of Section
5-5-6 are met.
         a.   If a governmental agency or department approves an activity
otherwise regulated by the City as a temporary noise permitted activity, the
City may waive the temporary noise permit fee provided compliance with all
other requirements of Section
5-5-6 are met.
   C.   Late Fees.
      1.   The City may impose upon any party subject to this ordinance
penalties and charges for failure to timely pay service and permit fees as set
out in this ordinance or in the City’s consolidated fee schedule. Attorney’s
fees and collection fees may also be applied.
      2.   An applicant who fails to give at least a ten (10) day notice to the
City of their intent to obtain a temporary noise/special event permit shall
remit to the City a late notification fee in an amount set forth in the City’s
consolidated fee schedule.
   D.   Denial, Suspension, or Revocation of License or Permit.
      1.   Any permit applied for or issued pursuant to this ordinance may be
denied, suspended, or revoked by the City for any of the following reasons:
         a.   Failure of the applicant to show that the temporary noise event
will be held or operated in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance;
         b.   Submission of incorrect, incomplete, or false information in the
application;
         c.   Failure to pay applicable fees;
         d.   The temporary noise event is in violation of law;
         e.   Failure of the coordinator, owner, or operator at a temporary
noise event to allow the City to conduct inspections as necessary to determine
compliance with this ordinance;
         f.   Operation of a temporary noise event in a way that causes or
creates a hazard to the public health, safety, or welfare;
          g.   Failure to operate or maintain the temporary noise event in
accordance with the application, report, plans, and specifications approved by
the City; or
         h.   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2022-
17, 6-28-2022)
5-5-6: INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Required Compliance.
      1.   To ensure compliance, the City has the authority to perform
inspections, investigations, reviews, and other actions as necessary.
   B.   Authority for City to Enter Premises.
      1.   Regulated Commercial Premises. Upon presenting proper
identification, authorized representatives of the City may enter upon the
premises of properties regulated by the City to perform routine inspections to
ensure compliance with rules, standards, regulations, and ordinances adopted by
the City.
      2.   Private Dwellings. Inspections of private dwellings are made by
consent of the owner or other party having legal authority or upon a court
order.
      3.   Consent by Permit. The City shall require permit holders to allow
access for inspections as part of their permit. Failure to allow access for
inspections as set out in the permit may result in the suspension or revocation
of the permit. (Ord. 2022-17, 6-28-2022)
5-5-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Options. If the City has investigated or inspected any
property or facility and believes the property owner or other responsible party
is in violation of this ordinance or if the City has other reasonable grounds
to believe that there has been a violation of any part of this ordinance or
that the property owner or otherwise responsible party is not in compliance
with this ordinance, the City may take civil enforcement action as authorized
by statute, rule, ordinance, and regulation and may also refer the matter for
criminal prosecution. Civil enforcement may involve court or administrative
actions including but not limited to revocation of business licenses or
conditional use permits, injunctive actions, and closures and may involve cost
recovery, penalties, and other remedies. Civil and criminal actions may be
brought simultaneously. A person does not need to be first adjudged liable in a
civil matter before facing criminal charges.
   B.   Criminal Enforcement Actions. The City may recommend criminal
prosecution for environmental violations either alone or in conjunction with
civil enforcement. Criminal prosecutions for environmental violations of state
or federal law may be filed by the City Attorney, District Attorney, Utah
Attorney General, United States Department of Justice, or other enforcement
entity. Factors that the City may consider in recommending criminal enforcement
include the following factors and any other relevant factors:
      1.   The nature and seriousness of the offense including the immediacy of
the threat of danger to the life or safety of another or the harm or threatened
harm to human health or environment;
      2.   The degree to which the violation was designed to provide economic
gain or cost avoidance, or involved a pattern of conduct or a common attitude
of illegal conduct;
      3.   The degree to which the offender is a known violator and has avoided
prior actions by the City;
      4.   The degree to which prosecution might deter future violations;
      5.   The person’s actual culpability in connection with the offense
including the presence of criminal intent;
      6.   The person’s willingness to cooperate in the investigation including
whether the violator has attempted to conceal evidence;
      7.   The appropriateness of referring the case to other agencies having
prosecutorial interest; and
      8.   Possibilities of civil remedies which would be more appropriate than
initiating the criminal justice process.
   C.   Civil Enforcement Actions. The City may bring an action to restrain or
enjoin actions in violation of public health, environmental laws, and other
laws or abate conditions in violation of such laws.
   D.   Administrative Actions. The City may, at its discretion, issue a Notice
of Violation pursuant to 1-15C-4 and seek all those administrative remedies as
set forth in Title 1, Chapter 15. (Ord. 2022-17, 6-28-2022)
5-5-8: CRIMINAL, CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES:
   A.   Criminal Penalties. Any person who is found guilty by a court of
violating any of the provisions of this ordinance, either by failing to do the
acts required herein or by doing a prohibited act, is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor, pursuant to Section 26A-1-123, Utah Code Ann. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
violation.
   B.   Civil and Administrative Penalties. In addition to all those civil
penalties and remedies available to the City through civil action in the state
or federal court, any person who is found in violation of this code may be
subject to all civil and administrative penalties as more fully set forth in
Title 1, Chapter 15. (Ord. 2022-17, 6-28-2022)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-1-1: Davis County Animal Control Ordinance Adopted
6-1-2: Regulation Of Dogs And Cats (Rep. by Ord. 2023-01, 1-24-2023)
6-1-3: Penalty
6-1-1: DAVIS COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
The Davis_County_animal_control_ordinance currently adopted by Davis County,
and as amended or superseded from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference
and made part of this code as if fully set out at length herein. All laws,
rules and regulations contained therein, where applicable and within the
jurisdictional authority of Clearfield City, shall be in full force and effect
within the limits of the city, except as hereinafter specified. (Ord. 2009-01,
2-10-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-24-2023)
6-1-2: REGULATION OF DOGS AND CATS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2023-01, 1-24-2023)
6-1-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, which is punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate day a person violates any provision of this
chapter shall be a separate violation. (Ord. 2009-07, 5-26-2009)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Utah Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
6-2A-2: Alcoholic Beverages
6-2A-3: Interfering With Schools, Students Or Personnel
6-2A-4: Graffiti
6-2A-5: Disturbing The Peace; Loud Noises (Rep. by Ord. 2022-17, 6-28-2022)
6-2A-6: Pornographic And Harmful Materials And Performances
6-2A-1: UTAH CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The city hereby adopts all of the definitions, requirements, regulations,
prohibitions, penalties, provisions and sections of the Utah criminal code
(title 76), as amended. (2000 Code)
6-2A-2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Drinking Alcoholic Beverages In Public Places: No person shall drink
any alcoholic beverage in a public building, park, stadium or any grounds or
parking lots used in conjunction with said facilities, within the limits of the
city. Alcoholic beverage means and includes "beer" and "liquor" as they are
defined in section 32A-1-105, Utah Code Annotated, as amended. (Ord. 82-11, 9-
28-1982)
   B.   Drunkenness: Any person who shall be in an intoxicated condition in any
public place shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. No person shall permit drunkenness to take place in any
house or premises open to the public of which he is the owner or occupant or of
which he is in charge, or give or sell liquor or permit to be given or sold to
any person apparently under the influence of liquor or other intoxicant. (1966
Code § 6-1-13; amd. 2000 Code)
6-2A-3: INTERFERING WITH SCHOOLS, STUDENTS OR PERSONNEL:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and the good order of the
city, or any lawful assembly, by any of the following acts which tend to cause
a breach of the peace:
   A.   Disturb, interfere with or otherwise prevent the orderly conduct of the
activities, administration or carrying on of classes of any school;
   B.   Annoy, disturb, assault or molest any student or employee of any school
district while in the school or on the grounds thereof;
   C.   Loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or about or on any school
grounds or building, either on foot or in or on any vehicle, without having
some lawful business therein or thereabouts, or in connection with the school
or the employees thereof, or without being engaged in permitted recreational
activity;
   D.   Conduct himself in a lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in speech or
behavior in, about or on any school building or grounds;
   E.   Park or move a motor vehicle within one hundred (100) yards of any
school building or grounds for the purpose of annoying or molesting any student
or employee of the school district or in an effort to induce, entice or invite
any student or employee into or on the vehicle for immoral purposes. (Ord. 94-
3, 3-22-1994)
6-2A-4: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
apply:
    AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any canister, can, bottle, container or other
receptacle which contains any substance commonly known as paint, stain, dye or
other pigmented substance which is or can be modified to contain pressure, or
be pressurized, in order to impel or propel any such substance.
   GRAFFITI: The painting, writing, drawing, spraying, scratching, etching,
inscribing, or the application of stickers or logos of any material or
otherwise marking of any property, regardless of the content or the nature of
the material used, without the express written consent of the true owner, or
that is not otherwise allowed by ordinance, which defaces, detracts or
diminishes the value or appearance of the property.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: Any implement capable of marking a surface to create
graffiti, including, but not limited to, aerosol paint containers, markers and
gum labels.
   GUM LABELS: Any material such as, but not limited to, decals, stickers,
posters or labels which contain a substance commonly known as adhesive or glue,
which cannot be removed from the surface in an intact condition and with
minimal efforts.
   MARKER: Any indelible or permanent marker, or similar implement containing
an ink that is not water soluble.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PROPERTY: All real and personal property, both public and private, either
with or without apparent ownership, and anything temporarily or permanently
affixed thereto or thereon, including, but not limited to, structures, plant
life, signs, banners, etc.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Assistance: It is unlawful for any person to place or assist,
encourage, aid or participate in the placement of, or cause to be placed or be
in attendance with others and acquiescing in the placement of graffiti upon any
property.
      2.   Possession Of Graffiti Implements: It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of eighteen (18) to possess any graffiti implement,
aerosol paint containers, markers, or gum labels while on public or private
property without the express consent of the owner of such property.
      3.   Furnishing Graffiti Implements To A Minor: It is unlawful for any
person, other than a parent or legal guardian, to sell, exchange, give, loan or
otherwise furnish or cause to permit to be exchanged, given, loaned, or
otherwise furnished, any graffiti implement to any minor without the consent of
the parent or other lawfully designated guardian, which consent shall be given
in advance in writing.
   C.   Penalties, Enhancement:
      1.   Punishment: Any violation of any provision of this section which
causes less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) in damage shall be a class B
misdemeanor and is punishable as such. Any person found guilty of violating
this section shall be punished at least as follows:
         a.   Upon a first conviction, a minimum fine of not less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) shall be imposed.
         b.   Upon a second conviction, a minimum fine of not less than six
hundred dollars ($600.00) shall be imposed.
         c.   Upon a third or subsequent conviction, a minimum fine of not less
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be imposed.
      2.   Restitution: Upon any of the foregoing convictions, in addition to
any fines, probation and/or incarceration ordered by the court, restitution
shall also be ordered in an amount sufficient to enable the victim or victims
to restore the property to the condition as it existed prior to the violation.
It is recommended that for second and subsequent convictions, the court weigh
seriously the imposition of a jail sentence.
   D.   Removal From Private Property: Owners of property, including, but not
limited to, structures, buildings or natural fences, upon which graffiti has
been placed shall, within five (5) business days after the graffiti is
reported, remove the graffiti. If the owner of property fails to remove
graffiti within the required five (5) business days, said graffiti shall be
considered and is hereby declared a public nuisance and the owner shall be
given written notice that if the graffiti is not removed within ten (10) days,
said graffiti may be removed by the city at the expense of the owner pursuant
to title 10, chapter 11 of the Utah code and Clearfield City ordinances. (Ord.
2014-10, 5-13-2014)
6-2A-5: DISTURBING THE PEACE; LOUD NOISES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-17, 6-28-2022)
6-2A-6: PORNOGRAPHIC AND HARMFUL MATERIALS AND PERFORMANCES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section:
CONTEMPORARY COMMUNITY STANDARDS: Those current standards in the vicinage where
an offense alleged under this Section has occurred, is occurring or will occur.
DISTRIBUTE: To transfer possession of materials, whether with or without
consideration.
EXHIBIT: To show.
HARMFUL TO MINORS: That quality of any description or representation, in
whatsoever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or
sadomasochistic abuse when it:
      1.   Taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
      2.   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community
as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors; and
      3.   Taken as a whole, does not have serious value for minors. Serious
value includes only serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value
for minors.
KNOWINGLY: An awareness, whether actual or constructive, of the character of
material or of a performance. A person has constructive knowledge if a
reasonable inspection or observation under the circumstances would have
disclosed the nature of the subject matter and if a failure to inspect or
observe is either for the purpose of avoiding the disclosure or is criminally
negligent.
MATERIAL: Anything printed or written or any picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture or pictorial representation, or any statue or other figure, or
any recording or transcription or any mechanical, chemical or electrical
reproduction, or anything which is or may be used as a means of communication.
Material includes undeveloped photographs, molds, printing plates and other
latent representational objects.
MINOR: Any person less than eighteen (18) years of age.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks, with less than an opaque covering, or the showing of a female breast
with less than an opaque covering, or any portion thereof below the top of the
nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernably turgid
state.
PERFORMANCE: Any physical human bodily activity, whether engaged in alone or
with other persons, including but not limited to, singing, speaking, dancing,
acting, simulating or pantomiming.
PUBLIC PLACE: A place to which admission is gained by payment of a membership
or admission fee, however designated, notwithstanding its being designated a
private club or by words of like import.
SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is nude
or clad in undergarments, a mask or in a revealing or bizarre costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the
part of one so clothed.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse or any touching of a
person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or, if the person
is a female, breast, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite
sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent or actual sexual
stimulation or gratification.
SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: A condition of human male or female genitals when in a state
of sexual stimulation or arousal, or the sensual experiences of humans engaging
in or witnessing sexual conduct or nudity.
   B.   Expert Testimony Not Required:
      1.   Any material or performance is pornographic if:
         a.   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
finds that, taken as a whole, it appeals to prurient interest in sex;
         b.   It is patently offensive in the description or depiction of
nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, sadomasochistic abuse or excretion;
and
         c.   Taken as a whole it does not have serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
      2.   In prosecutions under this Section, where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, exhibition or
publicity indicate that the matter is being commercially exploited by the
defendant for the sake of its prurient appeal, this evidence is probative with
respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the conclusion that, in the
context in which it is used, the matter has no serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
      3.   Neither the prosecution nor the defendant shall be required to
introduce expert witness testimony as to whether the material or performance is
or is not harmful to adults or minors or is or is not pornographic, or as to
any element of the definition of pornographic, including contemporary community
standards.
   C.   Distributing Pornographic Material:
      1.   A person is guilty of distributing pornographic material when he
knowingly:
         a.   Sends or brings any pornographic material into the City with the
intent to distribute or exhibit it to others; or
         b.   Prepares, publishes, prints or possesses any pornographic
material with intent to distribute or exhibit it to others; or
         c.   Distributes or offers to distribute, exhibits or offers to
exhibit, any pornographic material to others; or
         d.   Writes, creates or solicits the publication or advertising of
pornographic material; or
         e.   Promotes the distribution or exhibition of material which he
represents to be pornographic; or
         f.   Presents or directs a pornographic performance in any public
place or any place exposed to public view or participates in that portion
thereof which makes it pornographic.
      2.   Each distribution of pornographic materials, as defined in
subsection C1 of this Section, is a separate offense under this Section. A
separate offense shall be regarded as having been committed for each day's
exhibition of any pornographic motion picture film and for each day in which
any pornographic publication is displayed or exhibited in a public place with
intent to distribute or exhibit it to others.
      3.   Each separate offense under this subsection is a Class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   D.   Inducing Acceptance Of Pornographic Material:
      1.   A person is guilty of inducing acceptance of pornographic material
when he knowingly:
         a.   Requires or demands, as a condition to a sale, allocation,
consignment or delivery for resale of any newspaper, magazine, periodical,
book, publication or other merchandise that the purchaser or consignee receive
any pornographic material or material reasonably believed by the purchaser or
consignee to be pornographic; or
         b.   Denies, revokes or threatens to deny or revoke a franchise or to
impose any penalty, financial or otherwise, because of the failure or refusal
to accept pornographic material or material reasonably believed by the
purchaser or consignee to be pornographic.
      2.   A violation of this subsection is a Class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   E.   Dealing In Harmful Material To Minor:
      1.   A person is guilty of dealing in harmful material when, knowing that
a person is a minor, or having failed to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the proper age of a minor, he:
         a.   Knowingly distributes or offers to distribute, exhibits or offers
to exhibit, any harmful material to a minor; or
         b.   Produces, presents or directs any performance before a minor,
harmful to minors, or participates in any performance before a minor, harmful
to minors; or
         c.   Falsely pretends to be the parent or legal guardian of a minor
and thereby causes the minor to be admitted to an exhibition of any harmful
material.
      2.   Each separate offense under this subsection is a Class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   F.   Use Or Allowance Of Real Property; Voiding Of Lease:
      1.   If a tenant or occupant of real property uses property for an
activity for which he or his employee is convicted under any provision of this
Section, the conviction makes void the lease or other title under which he
holds at the option of the fee owner or any intermediate lessor; and ten (10)
days after the fee owner or any intermediate lessor gives notice in writing to
the tenant or occupant that he is exercising the option, the right of
possession to the property reverts in the person exercising the option. This
option does not arise until all avenues of direct appeal from the conviction
have been exhausted or abandoned by the tenant or occupant, or his employee.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for a fee owner or intermediate lessor of real
property to knowingly allow his property to be used for the purpose of
distributing or exhibiting pornographic materials or for pornographic
performances by a tenant or occupant if the tenant or occupant, or his
employee, has been convicted under any provision of this Section of an offense
occurring on the same property and all avenues of direct appeal from the
conviction have been exhausted or abandoned.
         a.   "Allow" under subsection F2 of this Section means a failure to
exercise the option arising under subsection F1 of this Section within ten (10)
days after the fee owner or lessor receives notice in writing from the City
Attorney that the property is being used for a purpose prohibited by subsection
F2 of this Section.
         b.   A wilful violation of subsection F2 of this Section is a Class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      3.   Any tenant or occupant who receives a notice in writing that the fee
owner or intermediate lessor is exercising the option provided by subsection F1
of this Section and who does not quit the premises within ten (10) days after
the giving of that notice is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   G.   Affirmative Defenses:
      1.   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this Section that
the distribution of pornographic material was restricted to institutions or
persons having scientific, educational, governmental or other similar
justification for possessing pornographic material.
      2.   It is not a defense to prosecution under this Section that the actor
was a motion picture projectionist, usher, ticket taker, bookstore employee or
otherwise was required to violate any provision of this Section incident to his
employment.
   H.   Distribution Of Motion Picture Films; Definitions: As used in this
Section:
DISTRIBUTOR: Any person from which a film is acquired by sale, lease, loan or
any other means, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of exhibiting it in
the City, but shall not include any person whose function with respect to any
film is limited to the transportation or storage thereof.
EXHIBIT: To show in a public place or in a place where the public is admitted,
whether or not an admission fee is charged.
FILM: What is usually known as a motion picture film which is intended to be
shown commercially for profit by devices of any kind whatsoever.
PERSON: A natural person, firm, association, partnership or corporation.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which admission is gained by payment of a membership
or admission fee, however designated, notwithstanding it is designated as a
private club or by words of like import.
   I.   Distribution Of Pornographic Film; Penalty: Any person who knowingly or
by criminal negligence distributes for exhibition within the City a film which
is pornographic as that term is defined in the Utah Criminal Code or this Code,
shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each copy of a pornographic film distributed for exhibition
with the City and in violation of this subsection shall constitute a separate
offense.
   J.   Distribution Of Film Without Qualification; Penalty: Any person who
knowingly distributes any film for exhibition within the City without being
qualified to do so, or who knowingly exhibits a film in the City which has not
been acquired from a distributor qualified to distribute films in the City or
in the State, shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day's exhibition of such a film and each copy of a
film distributed for exhibition within the City shall constitute a separate
offense.
   K.   Defenses To Prosecution For Distribution:
      1.   It shall be an affirmative defense to any prosecution under
subsections I and J of this Section that the distribution is exempt from the
restrictions of this Section by the provisions of subsection L of this Section.
      2.   It shall not constitute a defense to any prosecution under
subsection I or J of this Section that the actor was a motion picture
projectionist or was otherwise required by his employment to commit the
violation complained of.
   L.   Exemptions From Application Of Film Distribution: This subsection shall
not apply to:
      1.   Any film distributed to or exhibited by any school, library or other
educational institution church or museum, where there is scientific, religious
or educational justification for the exhibition of the film; or
      2.   Any film intended solely for use by any employer for the instruction
of his employees. (Ord. 79-9, 4-24-1979; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE B. MINORS
SECTION:
6-2B-1: Curfew
6-2B-2: Daytime Curfew
6-2B-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Under Eighteen: Except as provided in subsection E of this section, it
shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to be in
or upon any sidewalk, street, alley or public place between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day.
   B.   Parents And Guardians: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person having legal care and custody of any minor, to allow or permit or
suffer any such minor to go or be in or upon any of the sidewalks, streets,
alleys or public places in the city within the times provided in subsection A
of this section. (Ord. 92-10, 7-28-1992)
   C.   Business Owners And Operators: No person owning or operating a business
shall permit to be or to remain on the premises where said business is
conducted any minor person under the age of eighteen (18) years, between twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., unless in the immediate
presence of the parent or other adult person having legal care and custody of
said minor. This subsection, however, shall not apply to any minor who is
lawfully employed on the premises. (Ord. 92-10, 7-28-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Aiding In Violation: It is unlawful for any person to assist, aid, abet
or encourage any minor to violate the provisions of subsection A of this
section. It is unlawful for any person to use any influence or otherwise to
entice or persuade any minor, under the age of eighteen (18), from his or her
parents, guardians or other persons having charge or custody of such minor
without the consent of such parents, guardians or custodians.
   E.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not
apply when any person regulated therein is:
      1.   Accompanied by an adult having the care and custody of such person.
      2.   Attending or returning home from a function of any school or church.
      3.   Attending or returning home from a lawful entertainment, amusement
or commercial activity.
      4.   On an emergency errand or specific business or activity directed by
his or her parent, guardian or other adult having custody or care of her or
him.
      5.   Engaged in legitimate employment which requires his or her presence
at the public places during the prohibited hours. (Ord. 92-10, 7-28-1992)
   F.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be deemed as a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 92-10, 7-28-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
6-2B-2: DAYTIME CURFEW:
   A.   Minors Subject To Compulsory Education; Daytime: It is unlawful for any
minor subject to compulsory education to loiter or remain in any public place,
on any private property normally held open to the public, or in any
unsupervised place within the Clearfield City limits during the normal school
hours for the school said minor is required to attend.
   B.   Minors Subject To A Compulsory Alternative Education Program; Daytime:
It is unlawful for any minor subject to a compulsory alternative education
program to loiter or remain in any public place, on any private property
normally held open to the public, or any unsupervised place within the
Clearfield City limits during the normal school hours for the school said minor
would normally be enrolled.
   C.   Parents, Guardians, And Teachers; Daytime: It is unlawful for any
parent, guardian, teacher, or other person having legal care and custody of any
minor dealt with respectively in subsections A and B of this section to permit
or allow, whether wilfully or by exercise of insufficient control, any such
minor to remain or loiter in any public place, on any private property normally
held open to the public, or in any unsupervised place within the Clearfield
City limits, except as provided in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Defenses: It shall be a defense to a violation of subsections A and B
of this section that at the time the minor was stopped by a peace officer, the
minor was:
      1.   A minor fourteen (14) years or older, emancipated by marriage;
      2.   Accompanied by the minor's parent, guardian, or other adult person
having care, custody, or supervision of said minor;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without detour or stop;
      5.   Acting in response to an emergency;
      6.   Going to, or returning from, a medical or dental appointment;
      7.   Permitted to leave the school campus for lunch or any school
approved activity;
      8.   Attending, or without any detour or stop, was going to, or returning
from, a school approved, recreational, or educational activity, supervised by
adults, and sponsored by the local school district, another school district, or
any civic, religious, or other government organization;
      9.   Going to, or returning directly from, a compulsory alternative
education program;
      10.   Going to, or returning directly from, the minor's place of school
approved employment;
      11.   Granted an exemption for "homeschooling" as prescribed by the local
board of education; or
      12.   Otherwise granted an exemption to compulsory education by the local
board of education, under section 53A-11-102 of the Utah code (as amended), or
any successor provision.
   E.   Enforcement Procedures: Before taking any enforcement action under the
provisions of this section, a peace officer shall ask said minor's age and
reason for being in the public place or other restricted place. The peace
officer should not take enforcement action under this section if the peace
officer has reasonable cause to believe that any defense under subsection D of
this section applies.
Upon any violation of subsection A or B of this section:
      1.   A peace officer may take the minor into temporary custody and/or
issue a citation to the minor.
      2.   If the peace officer takes the minor into temporary custody, the
peace officer, without unreasonable delay, shall:
         a.   Transport the minor to the school from which the minor is absent,
releasing the minor to the principal or other designated school official;
         b.   Release the minor to any individual who has been designated by
the local school board to receive and return the minor to school; or
         c.   Transport and release the minor to a receiving center established
and designated by the local school board.
      3.   If the minor refuses to return to school or go to the receiving
center, or the peace officer is unable to otherwise release the minor to the
appropriate school official or designated receiving center, as provided in
subsection E2c of this section, the peace officer may release the minor to the
minor's parent or guardian, and shall notify the appropriate school officials
of the violation. If a parent or guardian cannot be reached or is unable to
accept custody, the minor shall be referred to the division of child and family
services, in the manner required under state law.
      4.   If cited, the minor shall appear, along with a parent or guardian,
in the applicable juvenile court as directed in the citation.
      5.   A parent or guardian shall not be cited for a violation of
subsection C of this section, unless the minor in question was previously cited
for a violation of this section and the parent or guardian was warned or
advised by a peace officer, school official, receiving center, or court
official of such violation.
   F.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be a class C misdemeanor. In
juvenile or district court, a person adjudicated in violation of this section
shall receive a minimum fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an initial
violation. A person adjudicated in subsequent violations of this section shall
receive a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The minimum fine is
not intended to be a limitation of any other penalty, probation, community
service requirement, or other fine, which may be imposed by the applicable
court. (Ord. 2011-12, 12-13-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
ARTICLE C. FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
SECTION:
6-2C-1: Discharging Firearms
6-2C-1: DISCHARGING FIREARMS 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any rifle, gun, pistol, air
gun, bean shooter, flipper, sling shot or any other instrument which expels a
projectile within the limits of the City, except under the following
circumstances:
   A.   In self-defense.
   B.   In the case of any peace officer in the discharge of his duty.
   C.   In the case of target shooting upon issuance of a permit by the Police
Department.
   D.   During the regular pheasant hunting season as determined and proclaimed
by the Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources and the Wildlife Board. Such
pheasant hunting must be in full compliance with the Wildlife Resources Code of
Utah and any regulations of the Division of Wildlife Resources and shall only
be allowed in such areas as are designated annually by the Police Department
and Safety Council of the City. (Ord. 78-5, 10-24-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-8-47.
CHAPTER 3
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definition
6-3-2: Alarm Business, License Required
6-3-3: Administration Regulations
6-3-4: Audible Alarms
6-3-5: Autodialers Forbidden
6-3-6: Instruction As To The Operation Of Systems
6-3-7: Responsibility Of Alarm Monitoring Companies
6-3-8: Notice Of Disruption In Service
6-3-9: Responsibility For Alarm Service
6-3-10: Additional Requirements For Burglar/Intrusion Alarms
6-3-11: Operational Defects To Be Remedied
6-3-12: Notification Of Tests
6-3-13: Civil Penalty For False Alarms
6-3-14: Right To Appeal
6-3-15: Reinstatement Of Alarms
6-3-16: Liability Of City Limited
6-3-17: Authority To Inspect Installations
6-3-18: Penalty For Violation
6-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Alarm systems" means any mechanism, equipment, or device which is designed to
detect an unauthorized entry into any building or onto any property, or to
direct attention to a robbery, burglary, fire, or other emergency in progress,
and to signal above occurrences either by silent, remote, or audible alarm,
upon any premises or group of premises under single control or management,
designed to operate automatically, or upon manual activation which transmits a
signal. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-2: ALARM BUSINESS, LICENSE REQUIRED:
Each alarm installation or maintenance business shall meet the standards of the
state of Utah's licensing regulations governing alarm businesses and shall be
licensed by the state of Utah in addition to possessing a valid Clearfield City
business license. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-3: ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the police
chief. The chief and/or the designated representative are authorized to make
inspections of alarm systems and of the premises wherein said device or system
is located. The police chief shall have the power to make such reasonable rules
and regulations as may be deemed necessary to implement the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-4: AUDIBLE ALARMS:
Outside nonmonitored burglary or robbery audible alarms are prohibited within
the confines of Clearfield City. Except as provided in section
6-3-10 of this chapter, vehicle audible alarms are exempt for audible sounding.
No audible alarm will sound for more than a five (5) minute period. Outside
fire sprinkler alarm bells are exempted from this section. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-
2014)
6-3-5: AUTODIALERS FORBIDDEN:
No alarm system shall automatically dial any Clearfield police department
number and give any prerecorded message or announcement. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-
2014)
6-3-6: INSTRUCTION AS TO THE OPERATION OF SYSTEMS:
It shall be the responsibility of the owner or supplier of the system to
instruct the subscriber and/or occupant of the premises wherein the system is
installed, in the proper use and operation of the device or alarm, whether
silent or audible, including specifically all necessary instruction in turning
off said alarm and in avoiding false alarms. It shall be the responsibility of
the alarm company installing the alarm to complete an education program for
each owner, lessee, or renter informing them of the requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF ALARM MONITORING COMPANIES:
Any person or company providing alarm monitoring service shall be responsible
for obtaining and maintaining an up to date list of responsible parties to
respond to the premises upon an alarm being received from a client's premises.
It shall be the responsibility of the alarm monitoring person or company to
notify the responsible party to respond. The alarm monitoring person or company
shall then immediately notify the Clearfield police department and give the
name of the responsible person responding, their estimated time of arrival at
the scene of the alarm, and a description of the vehicle in which the party is
responding. In the event there is no responsible party to respond to a business
or residential premises alarm, the owner, occupant, or permittee of the
business or residence may be assessed a twenty five dollar ($25.00) civil
penalty, and the responding officer will do a visual outside perimeter check.
Failure to pay this penalty will be cause for the city to decline to respond on
future alarms. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-8: NOTICE OF DISRUPTION IN SERVICE:
When an alarm business' service is disrupted, or the alarm business becomes
aware of any such disruption, it shall promptly notify its subscribers that
protection is no longer being provided. When a fire alarm system becomes
inoperable the North Davis fire district may require a fire watch until the
system is restored, in accordance with the 2012 international fire code section
901.7. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ALARM SERVICE:
In the event of an audible, silent, or fire alarm, the person or persons listed
as responsible parties, shall, upon notification proceed immediately to the
location of the activated alarm and render all necessary service. The police
shall be under no obligation to remain at the location emitting the alarm.
(Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-10: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR BURGLAR/INTRUSION ALARMS:
   A.   The sensory mechanism used in connection with alarm systems shall be
adjusted to suppress false indication of intrusion so that the device will not
be activated by impulses due to transient pressure changes in water pipes,
short flashes of light, wind noise such as the rattling, whistling, or
vibrating of doors or windows, vehicular noise adjacent to the installation,
radio frequency energy, nonintrusive motion, or other forces unrelated to
actual alarms.
   B.   All components comprising such a device must be maintained by the owner
or occupant of the premises upon which it is installed so as to assure
reliability of operation.
   C.   Vehicle audible alarms shall not sound for a period in excess of five
(5) minutes.
   D.   All alarm systems shall be configured to eliminate false annunciation
upon loss of commercial power. Each alarm system shall have an uninterruptable
power supply which will sustain the alarm system for a minimum period of four
(4) hours. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-11: OPERATIONAL DEFECTS TO BE REMEDIED:
Upon receiving signals, warnings, or messages evidencing a failure to comply
with the requirements set forth in this chapter respecting operational
requirements and training in the operation of alarm systems, the police chief
may:
   A.   Upon inspection, if it is determined that the system sending such
messages, signals, or warnings is defective or inoperable, order the alarm be
considered by the city as inoperable until further notice in order to relieve
the police department from responding to multiple false alarms; and
   B.   In addition to any other provisions of this chapter, demand that the
owner or lessee of such device:
      1.   Immediately remedy the defect;
      2.   Take the steps necessary to disconnect the device; or
      3.   Acknowledge that there will be no response to the premises serviced
by the system until corrective measures are taken. For the purpose of this
section, if the system is activated five (5) times in succession without any
valid alarms, it shall be presumed that said device is not in compliance with
the requirements of above listed sections or requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-12: NOTIFICATION OF TESTS:
Alarm businesses and permittees shall notify the police dispatcher at the
police communications center, who shall notify the North Davis fire district,
prior to any service, test, repair, maintenance, adjustment, alteration, or
installation of any alarm system which would directly or indirectly result in
an emergency services response. The dispatcher shall be notified of the type of
alarm involved. Any alarm received after such notification while the system is
out of service shall not constitute a false alarm. Alarm businesses and
permittees shall notify the police dispatcher when the system is back in
service. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-13: CIVIL PENALTY FOR FALSE ALARMS:
After having two (2) false alarms occur on the same premises, outside a twenty
four (24) hour period, within each quarter of a calendar year, there will be a
monetary assessment as set forth below:
   A.   Third alarm, fifty dollars ($50.00);
   B.   Fourth alarm, seventy five dollars ($75.00);
   C.   Fifth alarm, one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the alarm holder's
insurance company and/or state licensor may be notified by mail, by the police
chief/fire chief of pending disconnection; and, the alarm will be subject to
being disconnected or the city declining to respond due to the alarm being
considered inoperable as stated in section
6-3-11 of this chapter, until the situation is remedied; and
   D.   Failure to pay the false alarm assessment fee will be cause for the
city to decline to respond on future alarms or to require the alarm system to
be disconnected. Any notification to the owner, occupant, or company shall be
satisfied by regular U.S. mail to the address provided on the alarm permit.
(Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-14: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
Any person, company, business, or premises that is assessed the civil penalty
in accordance with this chapter has the right to appeal to an alarm appeal
board. Said board is comprised of the chief of police, chief financial officer,
and the assistant city manager, or their designated representative. Said appeal
must be filed with the office of the city recorder within ten (10) days of
notice of the imposition of any penalty. If extenuating circumstances can be
proven the board may waive or modify the civil penalty. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-
2014; amd. Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
6-3-15: REINSTATEMENT OF ALARMS:
The alarm user may apply for reinstatement by providing the police chief or
designee with documented proof that the problem has been corrected, accompanied
by a signed statement from a state certified alarm technician that the alarm
has been monitored and certified false free for thirty (30) consecutive days.
(Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-16: LIABILITY OF CITY LIMITED:
The city shall not be liable for any defects in operation of such alarm
systems, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon the receipt
of an alarm from such a source, nor for the failure, refusal, or neglect of any
business, apartment manager, or lessee. In the event the city finds it
necessary to order a party to disconnect an alarm system, or to not respond due
to false alarms, the city shall not be liable for the results of such action.
(Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-17: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT INSTALLATIONS:
The police chief and/or the authorized representative shall have the authority
at reasonable times and upon oral notice, to enter any premises within the city
to inspect the installation and operation of any alarm system to determine
whether it is being used in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
Said persons shall likewise have the authority to inspect the premises, on
which the proposed system is to be installed, and the plans therefor, prior to
the issuance of any permit required in this chapter. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-8-2014)
6-3-18: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this chapter, failure of any person to
comply with the requirements of this chapter constitutes a class C misdemeanor
and shall be punishable as such by law. Each day a violation exists constitutes
a separate offense and is subject to the full penalty contained herein. (Ord.
2014-04, 4-8-2014)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions, Generally
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERALLY:
In addition to the definitions of words and phrases within Utah Code Annotated
title 41, as amended, the following terms as used in this title shall have the
meanings designated:
ABANDONED JUNK VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle extensively damaged, such damage
including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Broken window or windshield;
   B.   Missing wheels and/or tires;
   C.   Missing motor and/or transmission.
AUTOMOBILE HULK: Synonymous with a wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle
and means the remnant or remains of a motor vehicle which is inoperative and
cannot be made mechanically operative without the addition of vital parts and
the application of a substantial amount of labor to effect repairs.
CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER: The individual designated by the City Manager as holding
the office/position of City Traffic Engineer and charged with exercising the
powers and duties of the City Traffic Engineer as prescribed in the provisions
of this Code.
CIVIL INFRACTION HEARING EXAMINER (CIHE): The person appointed by the City
Manager to preside and conduct a hearing under section
1-15-1 of this Code related to the issuance of a notice of civil infraction.
The CIHE may be a City employee, other than the enforcement official, or a non-
City employed person with requisite skill and experience.
MUTCD: The "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways".
RESIDENTIAL AREA: For purposes of sections
7-3-23,
7-3-24, and
7-3-30 of this title: a) any street, alley or public right-of-way immediately
adjacent to property on which is located a house, duplex, apartment, or other
residential structure; or b) an entire linear block of any street, alley or
public right-of-way adjacent to properties which are predominantly occupied by
such residential structures. "Linear block" means both sides of that portion of
any street that has street numbers ranging between any two (2) consecutive
multiples of one hundred (100).
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any person(s) responsible for allowing, permitting, causing
or maintaining a violation of this Code. Such responsible person may include,
but not be limited to, the property owner and/or the person in possession of
real property; and the person committing the conduct violating this Code. (Ord.
2017-18, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Rulemaking Authority
7-2-2: School Property; Applicability
7-2-3: Traffic Engineer, Powers, And Regulations
7-2-4: Operational Rules And Regulations; Generally
7-2-5: Reserved
7-2-6: Traffic Control Devices; Standards
7-2-7: Police Department; Authority To Enforce And Direct
7-2-8: Unauthorized Devices And Commercial Advertisements
7-2-9: Closed Or Restricted Use Streets
7-2-10: Emergency Vehicles
7-2-11: Workers And Equipment On Streets
7-2-12: Reserved
7-2-13: Applicability To Pushcarts, Bicycles And Animals
7-2-14: Penalty
7-2-1: RULEMAKING AUTHORITY:
The City Manager is empowered to make and enforce regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of this chapter and to make and enforce temporary
regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-
2017)
7-2-2: SCHOOL PROPERTY; APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Scope Of Regulations: The traffic rules and regulations of the City
applicable upon City streets and highways throughout the City and known as the
City Traffic Code, are hereby adopted as rules and regulations for the control
of vehicular traffic and parking upon all school property within the corporate
limits of the City, except as hereinafter provided with respect to penalties
for violations thereof, and such traffic rules and regulations shall be
interpreted, construed and applied insofar as practicable to traffic situations
arising upon school property to the same extent as though such school property
were a public street, road or highway and for the purpose of this section, such
school property is declared to be and shall be considered a public street, road
or highway.
   B.   Special Rules; Authority To Adopt: The City may, by subsequent
ordinance or resolution and after conferring with school officials at any
particular school, adopt particular rules and regulations for the control of
vehicular traffic and parking upon school property at such school and such
rules and regulations especially prepared with reference to a particular school
shall be supplemental and in addition to the other rules and regulations
hereinabove provided and enforced in the same manner as said rules and
regulations.
   C.   Enforcement: All such rules and regulations, with respect to school
property, shall be enforced by any law enforcement officer of the State, County
or City and they are hereby vested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic upon schoolhouse sites within the City.
   D.   Penalty: It is a violation of this Code for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required by such rules and regulations. As
such, unless otherwise required in State law or this title, the City may at its
sole discretion pursue each violation as an administrative, civil, or criminal
violation of this Code. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-3: TRAFFIC ENGINEER, POWERS, AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Established: The City Manager may appoint an individual as the Traffic
Engineer that shall exercise all the powers and duties as provided by the
ordinances of the City.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Generally: It is the general duty of the Traffic Engineer to
determine the installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic control
devices, to conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents and to devise
remedial measures, to conduct engineering investigations of traffic conditions
and to cooperate with other City officials in the development of ways and means
to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the additional powers and
duties imposed by ordinances of the City and as directed by the City Council.
      2.   Install Traffic Control Devices: In cooperation with the City
Engineer and the Public Works Department, the Traffic Engineer shall place and
maintain on City streets, all traffic control devices when and as required
under the ordinances of the City to make effective the provisions of said
ordinances, and may place and maintain such additional traffic control devices
as deemed necessary to regulate, guide or warn traffic under the traffic
ordinances of the City.
      3.   Regulations; Emergency And Experimental:
         a.   The Traffic Engineer is hereby empowered to make regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the
City and to make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover the
emergency or special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulations
shall remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
         b.   The Traffic Engineer may test traffic control devices under
actual conditions of traffic.
      4.   Crosswalks, Safety Zones And Lane Marking: The Traffic Engineer is
hereby authorized:
         a.   To commission engineering studies and consult with the City
Engineer and Public Works Department or others concerning the designation of
preferred pedestrian paths across roadways.
         b.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway crosswalks at intersections where warranted or
where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as deemed necessary.
         c.   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
         d.   To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as
deemed necessary and advisable, consistent with the City's traffic ordinances.
      5.   Mid Block Crosswalks Not Located At An Approved School Crossing: The
Traffic Engineer shall utilize the standards for evaluating mid block
crosswalks found in the "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways" (MUTCD) and any other Federal, State, or local regulations that
are deemed applicable by the Traffic Engineer.
      6.   Regulate Timing Of Speed: The Traffic Engineer is authorized to
regulate the timing of traffic signals so as to permit the movement of traffic
in an orderly and safe manner at speeds somewhat below the speeds otherwise
applicable within the district or at intersections and shall erect appropriate
signs giving notice thereof.
      7.   Place Turning Markers: The Traffic Engineer is authorized to place
islands, markers or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the
course to be traveled by vehicles turning at intersections, and such course
shall be traveled irrespective of any other provisions of this chapter.
      8.   Determine And Designate Stopping, Standing Or Parking: The Traffic
Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and designate, by proper signs,
places not exceeding one hundred feet (100') in length in which the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition
or would cause unusual delay in traffic. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-4: OPERATIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS; GENERALLY:
   A.   Failure To Keep Lookout: No person shall drive a motor vehicle within
the corporate limits of the City in such a manner as to endanger life or
property by failing to keep a safe and proper lookout for other traffic,
objects or persons.
   B.   Negligent Collision: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle with
such lack of due care and in such a negligent manner as to cause the same to
collide with any vehicle, person or object.
   C.   Careless Driving: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle without the care and caution of a reasonable, prudent person under the
circumstances then and there existing or in a manner so as to endanger or be
likely to endanger any person or property.
   D.   Exhibition Driving: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
exhibition driving in any motor vehicle upon any public highway, street or
alley within the corporate limits of the City. Exhibition driving shall consist
of, but not be limited to, unnecessarily or unreasonably doing of one or more
of the following in the operation of a motor vehicle: squealing or spinning the
tires through application of excessive power or through excessive braking,
throwing rocks, gravel, sand or dirt through excessive application of power or
in sharp turns; fishtailing, rocking, weaving while applying excessive power;
sliding, spinning or skidding a motor vehicle; alternating between extreme
acceleration and extreme deceleration; or display of extreme acceleration. This
offense may be committed by any person operating a motor vehicle singly or in
concert with or in the company of another person operating a separate motor
vehicle and it shall not be necessary to show that any person intended to
engage or was engaged in any contest or display with another to constitute a
violation of this subsection.
   E.   Interference With Vehicle: No person shall engage in any activity or do
any act which interferes with the safe operation of any vehicle.
   F.   Control By Driver: No driver shall engage in any activity that
interferes with the safe control of his vehicle while the same is in motion.
   G.   Use Of Coasters, Roller Skates: No person upon roller skates,
rollerblades or riding in or by means of any coaster, sled, toy wagon, non-
motorized scooter or similar device shall go upon any roadway or street or
alley.
   H.   Cutting Through Corners: No driver of a motor vehicle, motorcycle or
vehicle of any kind, shall drive through any private driveway or private
property, such as a gas station or lot, or similar areas, whether vacant or
not, with intent to avoid obedience to any traffic regulations set forth in
this Code; and no person shall drive a motor vehicle, motorcycle or any other
vehicle through any private driveway, lot or similar area where any business
establishment, manufactory, retail store, drugstore, café, confectionery,
drive-in food and drink establishment or drive-in market or any other kind of
business or trade is maintained or carried on for the purpose and with the
intent of avoiding obedience to any traffic regulation or for the purpose and
with the intent of harassing and annoying the owner thereof or his patrons.
Driving by any person of a motor vehicle upon or through any such private
driveway, lot or similar area without a visible display of slowing or stopping
shall constitute prima facie evidence of a violation of this subsection. (Ord.
2017-18, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
7-2-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-6: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; STANDARDS:
All traffic control devices shall be installed and maintained in conformance
with the most recent edition of the "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways" (MUTCD) and other standards issued or endorsed by the
Federal Highway Administrator and the manual and specifications adopted by the
Utah Transportation Commission. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-7: POLICE DEPARTMENT; AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE AND DIRECT:
It shall be the duty of the Police Department to administer and enforce the
provisions of this title. In the event of a fire or other emergency, officers
of the Police or Fire Department are authorized to direct all traffic, either
in person or by means of visible or audible signal to expedite traffic and
safeguard pedestrians. Officers of the Police or Fire Department that direct
traffic as described above shall not be found in violation of the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-8: UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES AND COMMERCIAL ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view
of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, light, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device or signal, or authorized emergency vehicle flashing light or which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic; or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic device; or which is
of such brilliant illumination and so positioned as to blind or dazzle a driver
on any highway adjacent thereto, and no person shall place or maintain nor
shall any public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal
bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   B.   Exception: This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon
private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs, and that
are not in violation of any Federal, State, or local ordinance or applicable
regulations.
   C.   Declared Public Nuisance; Removal: Every such prohibited sign, signal
light or marking is declared to be a public nuisance, and the City Traffic
Engineer or any police officer is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause
it to be removed without notice. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-9: CLOSED OR RESTRICTED USE STREETS:
   A.   Authority; Barriers And Notices Required: Whenever it is deemed
necessary because of construction or maintenance work, or because of emergency
to suspend all or part of the travel on a public highway, street, alley, or
portion thereof, the City may restrict the use of, or close, such highway,
street, alley or portion thereof. When such highway, street or portion is
restricted or closed to travel, the City shall cause suitable barriers and
notices to be posted as required in the MUTCD. It is unlawful for any person to
fail to observe any barricade, warning light, sign or flagman warning the
public that a highway or street, or portion thereof, is restricted or closed to
traffic.
   B.   Parking Or Standing Vehicles Prohibited: No person shall park or leave
standing a vehicle on any street or portion of any street which has been closed
or restricted to use and for which suitable barriers and notices have been
posted as required in the MUTCD.
   C.   Written Permission To Close: No person shall close or attempt to close
any public street by any means without written permission from the City Traffic
Engineer or other authorized City official, except a member of the Police or
Fire Departments when required in the execution of their duties.
   D.   Construction: This section shall not be construed in derogation of
other provisions of this Code or other general administrative powers of the
City to control the use of City streets. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-10: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority: The operator of an authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law or when responding to but not upon returning from
a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges under subsection B of this section,
when the operator of the vehicle sounds an audible signal, visual signal, or
both, as provided under Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-212 or 41-6a-1625, or
its successor provision.
   B.   Privileges: The operator of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Stop, stand or park, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the maximum speed limits; or
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-11: WORKERS AND EQUIPMENT ON STREETS:
   A.   Title Not Applicable: Except as provided in subsection B of this
section or unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title
shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in authorized work upon the surface of a highway or upon wires or
structures immediately above the surface of the street. However, the entire
title applies to those persons and vehicles when traveling to or from work.
   B.   Exceptions: The exemptions provided in subsection A of this section
shall not apply to Utah Code Annotated sections 41-6a-210, 41-6a-502 and 41-6a-
528, as amended, or their successor provisions. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-12: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-13: APPLICABILITY TO PUSHCARTS, BICYCLES AND ANIMALS:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle, moped or any animal
upon a roadway, and every person driving any animal, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the operator of any vehicle, except
those provisions which by their very nature can have no application. (Ord.
2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-2-14: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation Prohibited: It is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
violate, or for the owner or other person having the right to control the
operation of any such vehicle, to suffer or permit the operation, use,
stopping, standing or parking of such vehicle in violation of any rule or
regulation established and promulgated as provided in sections
7-2-4 and
7-2-6 of this chapter, or any regulation of the State Road Commission
applicable to any State highway in the City and adopted pursuant to State law.
It is unlawful for any person to violate any such rule or regulation applicable
to pedestrians.
   B.   Classification Of Violation: A violation of any provision of this
title, or any rule or regulation adopted in accordance with the provisions of
this title, unless otherwise required in State law or this title, may at the
City's sole discretion be pursued as an administrative, civil, or as a criminal
violation of this Code. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 3
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
7-3-1: Prohibited Parking; Generally
7-3-2: Streets; Parking Prohibited At All Times
7-3-3: Streets; Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours
7-3-4: Time Limited Parking
7-3-5: Parking On Sidewalk Or Parkway Area Prohibited
7-3-6: Parks, Playgrounds, Grounds Of Public Buildings
7-3-7: City Parking Lots; Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours
7-3-8: Parallel Parking Required; Exceptions
7-3-9: Angle Parking
7-3-10: Parking Space Markings
7-3-11: Reserved
7-3-12: Special Loading Permits
7-3-13: Bus, Taxicab, And Ridesharing Zones
7-3-14: Buses, Taxicabs, And Rideshare
7-3-15: Blocking Traffic
7-3-16: Reserved
7-3-17: Reserved
7-3-18: Using Streets For Storage
7-3-19: Working On Inoperable Vehicles Or Vehicles Needing Repair In Streets,
Parks Or Parking Lots
7-3-20: Vehicle Restoration Permits
7-3-21: Abandoned Vehicles
7-3-22: Snow Removal
7-3-23: Restricted Vehicles; Parking Regulations
7-3-24: Restricted Recreational Vehicles
7-3-25: Vehicles Illegally Parked On Streets; Police Authority To Move
7-3-26: Fire Lanes
7-3-27: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
7-3-28: Reserved
7-3-29: Vacant Lots Or Parking Lots; Display For Sale Prohibited
7-3-30: Prohibited Parking In Front Yards On Residential Property
7-3-1: PROHIBITED PARKING; GENERALLY:
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic control
device, no person shall:
   A.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      1.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      2.   On a sidewalk;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   On a crosswalk;
      5.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      6.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      7.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway tunnel;
      8.   On any railroad tracks;
      9.   On any controlled access highway;
      10.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
      11.   Any place where official traffic control devices prohibit stopping.
   B.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      1.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      2.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      3.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      4.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway;
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted;
      6.   At any place where official traffic control devices prohibit
standing.
   C.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
      1.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      2.   At any place where official traffic control devices prohibit
parking.
   D.   Move a vehicle not lawfully under such person's control into any
prohibited area or an unlawful distance from the curb. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-
2017)
7-3-2: STREETS; PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES:
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle or permit such vehicle to remain parked
upon any street, part of a street or roadway, when signs or traffic markings
are erected by the City which give notice that parking is prohibited. (Ord.
2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-3: STREETS; PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS:
When signs or traffic markings are erected or placed by direction of the City,
no person shall park a vehicle or permit said vehicle to remain standing during
the hours and days specified by such signs and markings upon any street, parts
of a street, or roadway. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-4: TIME LIMITED PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle or permit such vehicle to remain parked
upon any street, part of a street, or roadway, for a period of time longer than
the time specified, between the hours shown, when signs or traffic markings are
erected or placed by the City restricting the times for parking. The parking
time restrictions established shall not be applicable on Sundays, and the time
before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day,
and on State legal holidays. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-5: PARKING ON SIDEWALK OR PARKWAY AREA PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or cause to be left, or parked,
any vehicle upon any portion of a street or highway between the curb lines or
the lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent sidewalk or property line, if
no sidewalk is present, unless such area has been designated by the City for
parking through the placement of signs or traffic markings. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-
14-2017)
7-3-6: PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, GROUNDS OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle:
   A.   At any place in any public park, playground or grounds of any public
building other than on the roads or parking lots provided for public parking
and then only in accordance with provisions of any officially installed signs;
   B.   On any footpath or trail in any City park or playground. (Ord. 2017-18,
11-14-2017)
7-3-7: CITY PARKING LOTS; PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS:
When signs or traffic markings are erected or placed by direction of the City
within a City owned and controlled parking lot, no person shall park a vehicle
or permit said vehicle to remain standing during the hours and days specified
by such signs and markings upon any portion of said parking lot. (Ord. 2017-18,
11-14-2017)
7-3-8: PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
Except when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or
signals, the operator of a vehicle shall not stop, stand or park such vehicle
in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the
direction of traffic, and with the curb side wheels of the vehicle within
twelve inches (12") of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as provided in
the following subsections:
   A.   Designated Angle Parking: Upon those streets which have been designated
and marked or signed for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle
to the curb indicated by such marks or signs.
   B.   Loading Or Unloading Merchandise; Permit Required: In places where, and
at hours when, stopping for the loading or unloading of merchandise or
materials is permitted, vehicles used for the transportation of merchandise or
materials may back into the curb to take on or discharge loads, but not
otherwise, when the owner of such vehicle holds a permit granting him such
special privilege under section
7-3-12 of this chapter; provided, that such permit shall be either in the
possession of the operator or on the vehicle at the time such vehicle is backed
against the curb to take on or discharge a load. It is unlawful for any owner
or operator to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such
special permit. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-9: ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Designation; City Manager Authority: The City Manager or designee shall
determine, based upon an engineering and traffic investigation, upon what City
streets or portions thereof angle parking shall be permitted, having due regard
to the width of the street, the nature of the surface thereon, the volume,
speed and nature of the traffic, the nature of the neighborhood through which
the same travels, the demand for parking space, and available facilities for
parking in such neighborhood. Whenever the City Manager determines that angle
parking shall be permitted upon a given street or portion thereof, he shall
designate the same by written order filed with the City Recorder and shall
cause the same to be marked and signed for angle parking in accordance with the
MUTCD.
   B.   Exceptions: It is specifically provided, however, that the City Manager
or designee shall have no power or authority to authorize or permit angle
parking on any Federal aid or State highway. Angle parking upon any Federal
and/or State highway may be authorized or permitted only by ordinance, and
shall not be authorized or permitted unless the Utah Department of
Transportation has determined that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic. (Ord.
2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-10: PARKING SPACE MARKINGS:
At any place where parking is limited by time restrictions or where angle
parking is authorized under the terms of this title, the City Traffic Engineer
is authorized, when he finds that the demand for parking space and the orderly
use thereof requires such action, to cause to be marked and designated upon the
curbs and roadways the parking spaces to be used for parking of vehicles.
Whenever such parking spaces have been designated and marked as set forth in
this section, it is unlawful to park any vehicle in such manner that it
occupies or encroaches upon more than one parking space unless such vehicle is
of such size that it cannot be parked wholly within one such space. (Ord. 2017-
18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-11: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-12: SPECIAL LOADING PERMITS:
The City Manager, or the City Manager's designee, is authorized to issue to any
owner of a vehicle used to transport merchandise or materials a special permit,
for a term not exceeding one year, and to state therein the terms and
conditions thereof, allowing the operator of such vehicle the privilege of
loading and unloading while the vehicle is backed against the curb, if, in the
opinion of the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee, such privilege is
reasonably necessary in the conduct of the owner's business and will not
seriously interfere with traffic or endanger life or property. (Ord. 2017-18,
11-14-2017)
7-3-13: BUS, TAXICAB, AND RIDESHARING ZONES:
It is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle other than a bus to stand or
park in an officially designated bus stop, or for any vehicle other than a
taxicab or rideshare vehicle to stand or park in an officially designated
taxicab or rideshare stand, except that the operator of any passenger vehicle
may temporarily stop in any such stop or stand for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in the loading or unloading of passengers. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-
14-2017)
7-3-14: BUSES, TAXICABS, AND RIDESHARE:
It is unlawful for the operator of any bus, taxicab, or rideshare vehicle to
stand or park upon any street upon which parking is prohibited, restricted, or
limited as to time, at any place other than at a bus stop or taxicab stand,
respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the operator of any
such vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading passengers. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-15: BLOCKING TRAFFIC:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: It is unlawful for any operator to stop, stand or
park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of
the roadway for the movement of vehicular traffic, except that an operator may
stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of passengers or when
necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals or a
police officer.
   B.   Driveway Entrance Or Access: No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle within a street or an alley in such a position as to block the driveway
entrance or access to any abutting property.
   C.   Sidewalks: It is unlawful for any operator to park a vehicle that
obstructs a sidewalk.
      1.   Overhanging Obstruction: A sidewalk is to be considered obstructed
by an operator of a vehicle that parks in a manner that results in any part of
the parked vehicle overhanging the sidewalk.
      2.   Private Driveway: A sidewalk is to be considered obstructed by an
operator of a vehicle that parks in a manner in part or in whole on a private
driveway that results in any part of the parked vehicle touching or overhanging
the sidewalk. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-16: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-17: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-18: USING STREETS FOR STORAGE:
   A.   Restrictions: No person who owns or has possession, custody or control
of any nonmotorized vehicle, utility trailer, house trailer, boat, boat trailer
or any other type of trailer shall park or store such vehicle, trailer or boat,
whether attached or unattached to a motor vehicle, upon any public street or
alley for a period of time more than twenty four (24) hours. Such vehicle shall
be considered to be in violation of this section if parked in any one location
for longer than twenty four (24) hours or if the vehicle has been parked in one
or more locations within the same block for longer than such twenty four (24)
hour period.
   B.   Unmounted Camper; Automobile Hulk: It shall be unlawful to park, place,
store, abandon, or otherwise leave any unmounted camper or any "automobile
hulk", (as defined in section
7-1-1 of this title), on any public street, alley, sidewalk or right-of- way,
at any time. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-19: WORKING ON INOPERABLE VEHICLES OR VEHICLES NEEDING REPAIR IN STREETS,
PARKS OR PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Work: No person shall park or operate a motor vehicle or any type of
trailer on the public street or in any City park or public parking lot for the
purpose or repairing, painting or greasing such vehicle, and no person shall
repair, grease or paint a motor vehicle or any type trailer on a public street
or in any City park or public parking lot except to make repairs necessitated
by an emergency.
   B.   Lawful Operation: No person shall park or operate a motor vehicle or
any type of trailer on the public street or in any City park or public parking
lot that is mechanically inoperable or cannot be lawfully operated on public
streets.
      1.   A motor vehicle or any type of trailer is mechanically inoperable if
it has a flat tire, dead battery, or any mechanical problem that would prohibit
the immediate starting of the engine and proceeding and stopping in a safe
manner.
      2.   A motor vehicle or any type of trailer is mechanically inoperable if
it has any physical condition, such as missing or inoperable lighting that
prohibits lawful operation.
      3.   A motor vehicle or any type of trailer is not lawfully operated if
it does not have current registration, necessary inspections, or any other
paperwork required to be lawfully operated on the public streets and highways
of Utah. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-20: VEHICLE RESTORATION PERMITS:
   A.   A vehicle restoration permit may be issued in writing by an Ordinance
Compliance Officer or authorized City representative to an owner allowing an
inoperable and/or unregistered vehicle to be on the owner's premises for the
purpose of repair or restoration for a period not to exceed six (6) consecutive
months.
      1.   One (1) 6-month permit extension may be issued at the discretion of
the Ordinance Compliance Officer.
      2.   The fee for a vehicle restoration permit and any extension thereof
shall be according to the City's current consolidated fee schedule.
      3.   Only two (2) vehicle restoration permits are allowed at a time per
household or dwelling site.
      4.   Only one vehicle restoration permit and one extension may be issued
for the same vehicle.
   B.   Any vehicle for which a vehicle restoration permit has been issued
shall be kept in an enclosed structure or covered with an appropriate car cover
at all times during which it is not currently being repaired or restored. Tarps
shall not constitute an appropriate car cover. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-21: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to abandon any vehicle upon any highway or street. A
vehicle is presumed to be abandoned if it is left unattended on a highway or
street for a period in excess of forty eight (48) hours. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-
2017)
7-3-22: SNOW REMOVAL:
From November 15 of each year to the last day in February of the following
year, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Restricted Hours: It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vehicle to
allow such vehicle to remain standing upon any public street between the hours
of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day.
   B.   Snowbound Vehicles; Removal: It shall be unlawful for the owner of a
vehicle to allow such vehicle to remain standing upon any public street for
longer than forty eight (48) consecutive hours after such vehicle has become
snowbound due to snowplows plowing around the vehicle. Such vehicles shall be
presumed to be abandoned. Abandoned vehicles shall be subject to removal and
impound in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-1406, as amended,
or its successor provision.
   C.   Obstructing Snow Removal; Impoundment: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle or permit a vehicle owned by that person to park in a manner that
obstructs snow removal by failing to leave adequate room for passage of plows
and other removal equipment. Vehicles so parked are subject to impoundment in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-1406, as amended, or its
successor provision.
   D.   Temporary Prohibited Parking; Authority: In order to permit the removal
of accumulations of snow, the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee,
shall have the authority to designate and post streets for a temporary period
so that parking or allowing a vehicle to remain on such posted street is
prohibited. It shall be unlawful to park or fail to remove a vehicle on a
street when so designated and posted and any vehicle in violation may be
removed and impounded in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-
1406, as amended, or its successor provision. Adequate designation and posting
shall occur by posting such designation for at least twenty four (24) hours, at
intervals not exceeding one half (1/2) mile. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017; amd.
Ord. 2019-26, 10-8-2019)
7-3-23: RESTRICTED VEHICLES; PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Defined: For purposes of this section, "restricted vehicle" shall mean:
      1.   A vehicle or trailer with a rated capacity of one and one-half (11/
2) tons or more;
      2.   A vehicle or trailer licensed for more than sixteen thousand
(16,000) pounds gross;
      3.   A vehicle or trailer with a length of more than forty five feet
(45') or a width of more than eight feet (8');
      4.   Construction vehicles or equipment, except as allowed under section
7-2-11 of this title; or
      5.   Farm tractors or self-propelled implements of husbandry, or other
agricultural equipment or implements.
   B.   Residential Area; Loading And Unloading: No person shall park, or allow
to remain standing, any "restricted vehicle", as defined in subsection A of
this section, upon any street, part of a street or roadway in any residential
area of the City except while actually loading or unloading. In no event shall
it remain parked for purposes of loading or unloading in excess of eight (8)
hours.
   C.   Time Limitation: For purposes of this section a restricted vehicle
shall be deemed parked, even though the motor is running, if the vehicle is
left standing for any period in excess of three (3) minutes when the same is
not attended by a driver lawfully authorized to drive the said vehicle (except
when unloading or loading as provided in subsection B of this section). (Ord.
2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-24: RESTRICTED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions:
    RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit, primarily designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation use, which is either self-
propelled or is mounted on or pulled by another vehicle, including, but not
limited to, a travel trailer, a camping trailer, a truck camper, a motor home,
a fifth wheel trailer and a van.
   RESTRICTED RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A recreational vehicle which has or exceeds
either a body height of seven feet (7'), a body width of eight feet (8') or a
body length of twenty feet (20').
   B.   Residential Areas: It shall be unlawful to park, place, store, or
otherwise leave a restricted recreational vehicle upon any street in a
residential area for a period of time longer than twenty four (24) hours. Such
vehicle shall be considered to be in violation of this section if parked in any
one location for longer than twenty four (24) hours or if the vehicle has been
parked in one or more locations within the same block for such twenty four (24)
hour period.
   C.   Intersections: It shall be unlawful to stop, stand or park a restricted
recreational vehicle within thirty feet (30') of an intersection. (Ord. 2017-
18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-25: VEHICLES ILLEGALLY PARKED ON STREETS; POLICE AUTHORITY TO MOVE:
Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle parked or standing upon a highway
and such vehicle is creating a danger to persons or property, such officer is
hereby authorized to move such vehicle, cause such vehicle to be moved or
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same,
to a safe position off the highway. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-26: FIRE LANES:
No person shall park a vehicle within a fire lane as designated by the Fire
Chief, or the Chief's designees, and marked in accordance with the provisions
of the current Fire Code, as adopted by title 10, chapter 1 of this Code, or
its successor provisions. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-27: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Authority To Park In Restricted Areas:
      1.   "Appropriately marked", as used in this section, shall mean:
         a.   A vehicle bearing a disability special group license plate which
will be displayed like any other license plate; or
         b.   A temporary removable windshield placard or removable windshield
placard, displayed in the front windshield of the vehicle; and
         c.   The plate or identification card shall have been issued by the
Utah Department of Motor Vehicles, in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 41-1a-420, as amended.
      2.   Any disabled person qualifying under Utah Code Annotated section 41-
1a-420, as amended, shall be allowed to park an appropriately marked motor
vehicle in the following identified restricted parking areas, notwithstanding
any other State or City parking restriction: freight loading zones, passenger
loading zones and time-limited parking zones for a reasonable period of time,
and in a manner which allows proper access to the automobile by the disabled
person.
      3.   It is unlawful for such disabled person to park for longer than
reasonable periods of time in any such restricted parking areas. "Reasonable",
as used herein, shall mean the designated time or two (2) hours, whichever is
longer.
      4.   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit parking by any
individual, contrary to or as an exception to the limited purpose of the
following designated areas at:
         a.   Any area where official signs or traffic markings absolutely
prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
         b.   Areas reserved for emergency use. "Emergency use", as used
herein, means and shall include, but not be limited to, fire hydrant zones as
defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter; fire lanes, as designated in section
7-3-26 of this chapter, whether private or public property; or any other
designated area of the City posted as restricted for emergency vehicles or
emergency use;
         c.   Any area where parking is prohibited under section
7-3-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Parking Spaces Identified As Reserved For Disabled Persons; Public And
Private Property: It is unlawful for any vehicle to be parked in any parking
space or area designated as reserved for use by disabled persons, unless such
vehicle is displaying a disability special group license plate, temporary
removable windshield placard or removable windshield placard issued by the
State and such vehicle is transporting a qualifying handicapped person. This
subsection applies to and may be enforced on public property and on private
property which is used or intended for use by the public, whether parking is
provided to the general public for free or for a fee.
   C.   Out Of State Vehicles: The parking privileges granted by subsections A
and B of this section also apply to vehicles displaying a distinctive
disability license plate or transferable identification card issued by another
state, if displayed on a vehicle being used by a person with a disability.
   D.   Issuance Of Civil Infraction By Volunteers: The Chief of Police may
appoint volunteers to issue infraction for violations of subsection B of this
section. The Chief of Police may establish reasonable guidelines for the
appointment of such volunteers and shall establish a training program for all
such volunteers. No volunteer shall issue a civil infraction until such
training program is completed. A volunteer appointed under this subsection
shall be twenty one (21) years or older. The Chief of Police may remove a
volunteer appointed under this subsection at any time for any reason. A civil
infraction issued by a volunteer appointed under this subsection has the same
force and effect as a civil infraction issued by a peace officer for the same
offense. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-28: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-29: VACANT LOTS OR PARKING LOTS; DISPLAY FOR SALE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Unlawful Unless Licensed: It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor
vehicle, trailer or boat or for any other person to park such vehicle, trailer
or boat or allow such vehicle, trailer or boat to be parked on a vacant lot or
parking lot owned by another person for the purpose of displaying it for sale
unless the owner or lessee of the property on which it is parked has a City
business license to engage in the business of selling motor vehicles, trailers
or boats at that location. It shall also be unlawful for the owner or lessee of
such property to allow another person to park a motor vehicle, trailer or boat
on the property for the purpose of displaying it for sale unless the owner or
lessee is duly licensed to engage in the business of selling motor vehicles,
trailers or boats at that location.
   B.   Public Nuisance: Any vehicle, trailer or boat parked in violation of
this section is declared to be a public nuisance. If a civil infraction has
been placed upon such vehicle, trailer or boat and it is not removed within
twenty four (24) hours thereafter, or if two (2) or more civil infractions have
been placed on the same vehicle, trailer or boat within the last thirty (30)
days, the vehicle, trailer or boat shall be impounded as a nuisance. The
vehicle, trailer or boat shall be released to the owner or responsible party
only after the Police Department has received a receipt for the same
acknowledging responsibility of that person for the item being unlawfully
parked. Impoundments under this section shall be accomplished in accordance
with the provisions and procedures outlined in Utah Code Annotated section 41-
6a-1406, as amended, or its successor provision.
   C.   Each Day Separate Violation: Each day a vehicle, boat, or trailer is
parked contrary to the provisions of this section represents a separate
violation.
   D.   Defense: It shall be a defense to the owner or lessee of any parking
lot or vacant lot on which vehicles have been parked in violation of this
section, if the owner or lessee has posted signs on such lots restricting the
parking of such vehicles. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-3-30: PROHIBITED PARKING IN FRONT YARDS ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Front Yard Area Defined: "Front yard area" means the open space, on the
same lot with a building used as a dwelling, between the line of the building
and the lot line adjacent to any public street and extending across the full
width or length of the lot.
   B.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, trailer or boat
in a front yard area on any residential property.
   C.   Exception: This section shall not prohibit the parking of any vehicle
upon a concrete or asphalt slab or upon a driveway which leads to legal parking
to the rear or side of the building, which slab or driveway is in compliance
with the requirements of the zoning title of the City, either under existing
provisions or as a nonconforming use. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 4
TRUCKS, DYNAMIC BRAKING SYSTEMS, AND RESTRICTED VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Parking Of Trucks
7-4-3: Truck Routes
7-4-4: Loads To Be Covered
7-4-5: Dynamic Braking Systems
7-4-6: Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a police
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle for commercial purposes and so constructed that some part of its
weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
TRAILER: Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a police
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property for commercial purposes and
for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its
weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property for commercial purposes having a registered gross
vehicle weight exceeding sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for commercial
purposes for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load
other than a part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   B.   The definitions of semitrailer, trailer, truck and truck tractor shall
not be construed to include privately owned trailers, boat trailers, camping
trailers, and recreation vehicles used for private noncommercial purposes.
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-4-2: PARKING OF TRUCKS:
   A.   No truck, truck tractor, semitrailer or trailer shall be parked:
      1.   On a public street, except while actually loading or unloading
merchandise.
      2.   On a public street closer than thirty feet (30') to the entrance,
exit or intersection with any private driveway, private street, alley or public
street.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, a truck shall be deemed parked, even
though the motor is running, if the vehicle is left standing for any period in
excess of three (3) minutes, except when unloading or loading. (Ord. 2017-18,
11-14-2017)
7-4-3: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Designated:
      1.   The following streets are designated as truck routes within the
territorial jurisdiction of Clearfield City:
         a.   State Road 126: North Main Street, from 800 North to Center
Street.
         b.   State Road 126: State Street, from Center Street to Antelope
Drive (1700 South).
         c.   State Road 108: Antelope Drive (1700 South), from 1000 East to
1000 West.
         d.   State Road 193: 700 South, from 2000 East to 1000 West.
         e.   1000 West: From 800 North to Antelope Drive (1700 South).
         f.   300 North: From North Main Street to 1500 West.
         g.   South Main Street: From 200 South to 700 South.
      2.   All trucks, truck tractors, semitrailers and trailers, and all
vehicles carrying flammable liquids in excess of three thousand (3,000)
gallons, explosives and corrosives, shall, except as provided in this section,
follow such designated truck routes and not depart from such routes. The City
Manager may, in writing, designate temporary alternative truck routes and
authorize trucks to depart from the truck routes for a temporary period not
exceeding thirty (30) days, when road repairs or other obstructions block the
truck routes and when a report of such authorization is made to the City
Council at the next regularly scheduled Council meeting.
   B.   Exceptions: The truck routes specified in subsection A of this section
shall not apply to trucks delivering to or returning from construction sites
where it is not possible to use a designated truck route, or to trucks
delivering merchandise to or from local businesses or local residences or
established truck terminals, or traveling to or from a licensed garage where
the vehicle will be lawfully repaired or serviced, if travel or delivery is
made by the most direct and shortest route. A truck tractor, not attached to a
trailer or semitrailer, may depart from the truck routes, notwithstanding any
provisions of this chapter to the contrary, and may be parked on private
property in compliance with the City zoning ordinance.
   C.   Going To Or From Retail Fuel Outlet: An unladen truck or truck tractor
subject to this section may, for the sole purpose of going to or returning from
a retail fuel outlet, depart from the truck routes designated in this section;
however, the route of travel must be as reasonably direct as possible.
   D.   Signs Required: The City Manager shall install on major streets near
their intersections with streets designated as truck routes in this section
signs which indicate, in words or in picture, that trucks are prohibited. Where
such signs are installed, the City Manager may install additional signage to
the effect that local deliveries are permitted in accordance with subsection B
of this section.
   E.   Signs Prohibiting Use Of Dynamic Engine Braking Devices: The City
Manager shall cause to be installed adjacent to truck routes appropriate
signage which indicates that the use of dynamic engine braking devices by which
compression within the vehicle engine slows or stops the vehicle's forward
motion is prohibited. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-4-4: LOADS TO BE COVERED:
It is unlawful for any person to haul, convey or transport through or upon any
of the public streets any garbage, ashes, market wastes, manure, night soil,
loose paper, scrap paper, excelsior, tree limbs, bush clippings, lawn
clippings, house refuse, yard refuse, liquid wastes or any other refuse
materials, in open trucks, open trailers or other open conveyances, unless
covered completely by a heavy duty canvas or other similar material which shall
prevent the spillage of any materials from such vehicles at all times when the
vehicles are being used for the collection of, or carrying, transporting or
hauling of any of such materials. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-4-5: DYNAMIC BRAKING SYSTEMS:
   A.   Defined: A "dynamic braking device" (commonly referred to as a Jacob's
brake, engine brake or compression brake), means a device used primarily on
trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine to
an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes.
   B.   Use Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to operate any motor
vehicle with a dynamic braking device engaged, except for the aversion of
imminent danger within the City limits.
   C.   Exemption Of Emergency Vehicles: Fire trucks and other emergency
vehicles shall be exempt from the prohibitions of this section. (Ord. 2017-18,
11-14-2017)
7-4-6: PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any driver or other person having control of any vehicle to
violate or allow such vehicle to be operated in violation of the provisions of
this chapter. A violation of any provision of this title, or any rule or
regulation adopted in accordance with the provisions of this title, unless
otherwise required in State law or this title, may at the City's sole
discretion be pursued as an administrative, civil, or as a criminal violation
of this Code. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 5
CIVIL ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose
7-5-2: Authority
7-5-3: Notice Of Civil Infraction; Response; Payment; Contesting
7-5-4: Unauthorized Use Of Streets, Lots And Other Areas
7-5-5: Parking Violation; Strict Liability Of Owner
7-5-6: Reserved
7-5-7: Appeal Of A Civil Infraction
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide an alternative
method of enforcement for minor parking and vehicle related violations of this
Code and applicable State codes through the issuance of a civil infraction.
   B.   Application: The procedures established in this chapter shall be in
addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal remedy established by law that
may be pursued to address violations of this Code or applicable State codes.
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-5-2: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Any person violating a minor parking provision of this Code or
applicable State codes, as set forth in title 1, chapter 15 of this Code, may
be issued a civil infraction.
   B.   A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of a civil infraction issued
by the enforcement official or police officer, and shall be payable to the City
Finance Office.
   C.   Penalties assessed by means of a civil infraction shall be collected in
accordance with the procedures set forth in title 1, chapter 15 of this Code.
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-5-3: NOTICE OF CIVIL INFRACTION; RESPONSE; PAYMENT; CONTESTING:
   A.   A civil infraction issued pursuant to this chapter shall comply with
the notice requirements outlined in section
1-15-3 of this Code, or by personal delivery by the enforcement official or
police officer directly to the responsible person.
   B.   A person to whom a notice of civil infraction has been issued shall
respond in accordance with section
1-15-4 of this Code.
   C.   A person to whom a notice of civil infraction has been issued may make
payment to the City in accordance with section
1-15-4 of this Code.
   D.   A person to whom a notice of civil infraction has been issued may
contest the civil infraction in accordance with section
1-15-5 of this Code, and appeal the decision of the Civil Infraction Hearing
Examiner's decision in accordance with section
1-15-9 of this Code. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-5-4: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF STREETS, LOTS AND OTHER AREAS:
   A.   Liable For Civil Penalty: Any person engaged in the unauthorized use of
streets, parking lots or other areas as provided under this chapter, within the
City, shall be liable for a civil penalty. Any penalty assessed herein may be
in addition to such other penalties as may be provided in this title.
   B.   Imposed: The "unauthorized use of streets" shall include all violations
listed within chapter 3 of this title and that violation outlined in section
7-4-2 of this title. Civil penalties for unauthorized use of streets shall be
imposed in accordance with the City's consolidated fee schedule, subject to the
reductions for early payment authorized in subsection D of this section.
   C.   Date Of Notice Defined: As used in this section, "date of notice"
means:
      1.   The date that a notice of civil infraction is either:
         a.   Affixed to the vehicle alleged to have been employed in such
authorized use, or
         b.   Personally delivered to the owner or driver thereof; or
      2.   Five (5) days after a notice of civil infraction is mailed via first
class mail, postage prepaid, to the registered owner of the vehicle alleged to
have been employed in such authorized use at the address as shown in the
registration records of the State of Utah.
   D.   Payment Reduction; Time Limits:
      1.   Any penalty that is paid within ten (10) days from the date of
notice shall be reduced by the amount set forth in the City's consolidated fee
schedule.
      2.   Any penalty that is paid within twenty (20) days from the date of
notice shall be reduced by the amount set forth in the City's consolidated fee
schedule.
      3.   Any penalty that is paid within thirty (30) days from the date of
notice shall be reduced by the amount set forth in the City's consolidated fee
schedule. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-5-5: PARKING VIOLATION; STRICT LIABILITY OF OWNER:
   A.   Strict Liability Of Owner: Whenever any vehicle shall have been
employed in the unauthorized use of streets, parking lots and other areas the
person in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be strictly liable for
such unauthorized use and the penalty therefor.
   B.   Parking Violation; Owners Responsibility: Whenever any vehicle shall
have been parked in violation of any of the provisions of any ordinance
prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and subject to
the civil penalty therefor. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-5-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
7-5-7: APPEAL OF A CIVIL INFRACTION:
Any person having received civil infraction, or the owner of any vehicle
employed in such use, may appear before a Civil Infraction Hearing Examiner and
present and contest such alleged unauthorized use. Such hearing is outlined in
section
1-15-5 of this Code. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 6
MOTOR ASSISTED SCOOTERS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definition
7-6-2: Traffic Laws
7-6-3: Sidewalk And Right-Of-Way Restrictions
7-6-4: Enforcement
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
MOTOR ASSISTED SCOOTER:
   A.   A self-propelled device with:
      1.   At least two (2) wheels in contact with the ground;
      2.   A braking system capable of stopping the unit under typical
operating conditions;
      3.   An electric motor not exceeding two thousand (2,000) watts or other
motor providing equivalent power;
      4.   Either:
         a.   Handlebars and a deck design for a person to stand while
operating the device; or
         b.   Handlebars and a seat designed for a person to sit, straddle, or
stand while operating the device; and
      5.   A design for the ability to be propelled by human power alone; and
      6.   A maximum speed of twenty (20) miles per hour on a paved level
surface.
   B.   Motor Assisted Scooter does not include:
      1.   An electric assisted bicycle;
      2.   Any power-driven device used by individuals with mobility
disabilities for the purpose of locomotion; or
      3.   A motor-driven cycle. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
7-6-2: TRAFFIC LAWS:
A driver of a motor assisted scooter shall be subject to all laws that apply to
the operation of a bicycle. Drivers are also prohibited from operating a motor
assisted scooter while consuming any alcoholic beverage or while under the
influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree that renders the driver incapable
of safely driving a vehicle within the city as set forth in Utah State Code
Ann. § 41-6a-502, et. seq., as amended. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
7-6-3: SIDEWALK AND RIGHT-OF-WAY RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Motor assisted scooters shall not be operated on any sidewalk on which
a bicycle may not be operated;
   B.   Motor assisted scooters may not be operated in a manner contrary to
signs, traffic control devices, or other devices governing movement, traffic,
or other activities.
   C.   Any motor assisted scooter that is not in use must be secured to a
permitted dock rack or corral or otherwise placed as required below:
      1.   Motor assisted scooters may not, at any time, for any reason, impede
the free flow of pedestrian traffic.
      2.   Motor assisted scooters may not be temporarily placed or left in the
following areas in such a way as to impede the normal operation of such areas
or the free flow of pedestrians and traffic:
         a.   Any multi-use path;
         b.   Any vehicle travel lane;
         c.   Any vehicle parking space;
         d.   Any UTA TRAX or FrontRunner boarding platform;
         e.   Anywhere that impedes safe access to or egress from a UTA bus;
         f.   Within fifteen (15) feet of any building access or egress,
including driveways;
         g.   Within thirty (30) feet of any ADA ramp or access of any kind;
         h.   Anywhere that impedes the use of an existing docking station or
corral for motor assisted scooters or other mobility devices.
         i.   Any areas in which leaving a motor assisted scooter is prohibited
pursuant to regulations promulgated by the city transportation director.
   D.   Motor assisted scooters placed or otherwise left in violation of the
requirements of this section may be relocated or impounded at the motor
assisted scooter owner’s expense. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
7-6-4: ENFORCEMENT:
A person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction. (Ord. 2022-13, 6-14-2022)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Construction By Individuals; Permit Required
8-1-2: Maintenance Of Property
8-1-3: Obstructions
8-1-4: Location Of Poles On Streets
8-1-5: Height Of Awnings, Porches And Signs
8-1-6: Building Line On Street
8-1-7: Injury Prohibited
8-1-8: Limitations
8-1-9: Penalty
8-1-10: Relocation Of Structures In Public Ways
8-1-1: CONSTRUCTION BY INDIVIDUALS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, agent, servant,
contractor or employee, to construct any street or sidewalk in this city unless
a permit is first obtained from the city to do so and unless such street or
sidewalk be constructed to lines and grades and specifications as given and
established by the city, or unless special permission to deviate from such
lines and grades is first obtained from the city. All such streets and
sidewalks shall be constructed under the supervision of an inspector to be
appointed by the city and the cost of such supervision and the cost of
indicating grade and lines shall be borne by the applicant, except where
otherwise provided. (1966 Code § 8-2-2)
8-1-2: MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY:
It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of any real property with
frontage along a public sidewalk to remove all weeds and noxious vegetation
from such property to the curb line of the street and to keep the sidewalks
along such property free from litter, snow, ice or obstructions. Snow and ice
shall be removed from the sidewalks within twenty four (24) hours after a
storm. (Ord. 2008-15, 12-9-2008)
8-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS:
All persons are hereby forbidden to obstruct the sidewalks, crosswalks or
streets of the city, or to permit any gate or other obstruction to swing across
any sidewalk of the city to the annoyance of another person; provided, however,
that special permission may be granted by the city to place obstructions on
sidewalks or streets when necessary for improving the same or to provide
protection when buildings are in the course of construction. (1966 Code § 8-2-
3)
8-1-4: LOCATION OF POLES ON STREETS:
All signposts, telegraph, telephone or light poles, awnings, porch posts or
other obstructions shall be set at the outer edge of the sidewalk at such
places as the city may designate. No pole stubs shall be set on any telegraph,
telephone or light poles which are located on a public street or sidewalk
within the city. (1966 Code § 8-2-4)
8-1-5: HEIGHT OF AWNINGS, PORCHES AND SIGNS:
All awnings, porch tops and signboards crossing or extending over any sidewalk
in the city must be at least eight feet (8') above the grade of the sidewalk.
(1966 Code § 8-2-5)
8-1-6: BUILDING LINE ON STREET:
No building or house erected on the boundary or edge of any street, lane,
avenue or alley of the city shall extend farther into the street than the outer
edge of the lot or the inner edge of the sidewalk. (1966 Code § 8-2-1; amd.
2000 Code)
8-1-7: INJURY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, deface or in any manner injure
any public street or sidewalk. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
8-1-8: LIMITATIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter or in chapter 2 of this title shall in any
way be deemed a waiver of any of the provisions contained in the planning and
zoning regulations of the city and wherever any conflict may arise between the
standards herein required and the planning and zoning regulations, the
provisions of the latter shall control. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
8-1-9: PENALTY:
The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a class C misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
8-1-10: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Authority To Direct: The public works director may direct any person
owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the public way to alter,
modify or relocate such facilities or structures as the public works director
may require as set forth herein. Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe
driveways, vaults, trash receptacles and overhead and underground gas,
electric, telephone, telecommunications and communication facilities shall
specifically be subject to such directives. The person owning or maintaining
the facilities or structures shall, at their own cost and expense and upon
reasonable written notice by the city, promptly protect, or promptly alter or
relocate such facilities or structure, or part thereof, as directive of the
city. In the event that such person refuses or neglects to conform to the
directive of the city, the city shall have the right to break through, remove,
alter or relocate such part of the facilities or structures without being
liable to such owner or person maintaining the facility or structure. Such
person shall pay to the city all costs incurred by the city in connection with
such work performed by the city, also including design, engineering,
construction, materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Conditions Authorizing: Any directive of the public works director
shall be based upon one of the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law or determined by the public works director to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a "nuisance" as defined under
state statute;
      3.   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such facility
or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5.   The grades or boundaries of the public way are to be altered or
changed.
   C.   Police Power: Any directive of the public works director under this
section shall be under and consistent with the city's police power. Unless an
emergency condition exists, the public works director shall make a good faith
effort to consult with the owner or person maintaining the facility or
structure regarding the condition that may result in a removal or relocation of
facilities in the public way to consider possible avoidance or minimization of
removal or relocation requirements and provide the directive as far enough in
advance of the required removal or relocation to allow the owner or person
maintaining the facility or structure a reasonable opportunity to plan and
minimize cost associated with the required removal or relocation.
   D.   Exception: This obligation does not apply to facilities or structures
originally located on private property pursuant to a private easement, which
property was later incorporated in the public way, if that prior private
easement grants a superior vested right.
   E.   Penalty For Failure To Comply: Any person owning or maintaining
facilities or structures in the public way who fails to alter, modify or
relocate such facilities or structures upon notice to do so by the public works
director shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and upon conviction, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall
be borne by the person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
involved.
   F.   Emergency Action By The City: The city may, at any time, in case of
fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the city in its reasonable
discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or
under the public way, in which event the city shall not be liable therefor to
any person. The city shall notify the owner or person maintaining the facility
or structure in writing prior to if practicable, but in any event as soon as
possible and in no case later than the next business day following any action
taken under this subsection.
   G.   Indemnification And Insurance: The owner or the person maintaining the
facility or structure assumes liability for and agrees to indemnify Clearfield
City from and against any and all liability of any nature imposed upon,
incurred by, or asserted against the city by virtue of any undertaking under
this section. (Ord. 2006-08, 6-13-2006)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Permit Required; Exception For Emergency
8-2-3: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions
8-2-4: Misrepresentation In And Conformity With Application
8-2-5: Manner Of Excavating
8-2-6: Restoration
8-2-7: Inspection Required
8-2-8: Municipal Work Excepted
8-2-9: Penalty
8-2-10: Appendix
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen circumstance or occurrence, existence of which
constitutes a clear and immediate danger to persons or property, or which
causes interruption of utility services.
EXCAVATION: Any digging into or under the surface of any street, sidewalk or
public way, and includes any breaking or undermining of the surface of any
street, sidewalk or public way, any tunneling under such surface and any other
activity affecting the physical characteristics of any street in a manner
adverse to the common use of such street.
LATERAL EXCAVATION: Any excavation which is not a longitudinal excavation.
LONGITUDINAL EXCAVATION: An excavation in the form of a trench running at an
angle of forty five degrees (45°) or less or parallel to the street, sidewalk
or public way in which it is made and does not obstruct said street in such a
way that vehicular traffic cannot pass upon it, if it is a street commonly used
for vehicular traffic.
STREET: Includes not only any street but also any road, sidewalk or way, the
title of which is held by Clearfield City. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
8-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY:
   A.   Except in an emergency, no person shall excavate on, into or under any
street, sidewalk or public way, or place upon any street, sidewalk or public
way any earth or other material resulting from excavation without first
obtaining an excavation permit from the Building Department or other authorized
representative of the City.
   B.   If an emergency exists and there is reason to believe that such
emergency may be alleviated or mitigated by excavation into or under the street
and if it is not practicable, under the circumstances, to obtain an excavation
permit prior to such excavation, then such excavation may be done without first
obtaining an excavation permit. However, an excavation permit for such
excavation shall be obtained as soon after such excavation is begun as is
practicable, and the City Engineer or other authorized representative of the
Engineer's office shall inspect such excavation before it is backfilled. (Ord.
84-01, 2-14-1984)
8-2-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
The City shall issue a permit to a person who complies with the following
conditions: (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
   A.   Application: The person completes an application for an excavation
permit as provided by the City. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Payment Of Fee: The person applying for an excavation permit pays a fee
in an amount set by resolution of the City Council from time to time and set
forth in the appendix to this Chapter.
   C.   Licensed Contractor: The person applying for an excavation permit is a
contractor duly licensed in the state to perform excavation. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-
1984)
   D.   Deposit Of Bond: The person applying for an excavation permit deposits
a surety bond with the city, payable to the city, in an amount which shall be
set by ordinance of the city council from time to time. Said surety bond shall
be with a good and sufficient surety or sureties, in a form satisfactory to the
city attorney in form and substance and shall be contingent upon conformity
with this chapter, including the restoration of the street in the manner and
according to the standards prescribed hereafter in this chapter. The bond shall
be valid for a period of at least thirty six (36) months from the date the
permit is to be issued and the city engineer or other authorized representative
of the city may, at his discretion, require a longer period for the bond
required hereunder. A utility operating in the city, under a franchise or
blanket easement from the city, shall not be required to furnish bond under
this subsection. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984; amd. Ord. 2008-15, 12-9-2008)
   E.   Traffic: It appears that excavation proposed in the application will
not unreasonably or unnecessarily interfere with the flow of traffic or traffic
safety on or the use by the public or the streets.
   F.   Street Closure Or Detour: The police and fire departments have been
notified in writing by the applicant, if the excavation will require closure of
any street or any detour.
   G.   Violations: The person applying for an excavation permit has not
committed a violation of this chapter within the two (2) years immediately
preceding the date of the application. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
   H.   Insurance: The person applying for an excavation permit furnishes to
the city a certificate of insurance with a company authorized to issue
insurance by the state, evidencing that such applicant has a comprehensive
general liability and property damage policy that includes contractual
liability coverage with minimum limits of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for injuries, including accidental death to any one person; in an
amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) on account of injuries
sustained in an amount not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for each accident. Said insurance policies shall include the
following provisions: (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
      1.   To indemnify, hold harmless and defend the city and its officers and
employees against any claim or loss, damage or expense sustained on account of
damages to persons or property occurring by reason of an excavation made by the
permittee, his subcontractor or agent, whether or not the excavation has been
filled or resurfaced and whether or not the surface has been opened to public
travel.
      2.   To indemnify, hold harmless and defend the city from any and all
liability for the city's own negligence occurring by reason of said opening or
excavation. (Ord. 2008-15, 12-9-2008)
      3.   To indemnify, hold harmless and defend the city and its officers and
employees against any claim or loss, damage or expense sustained on account of
damages occurring by reason of failure to maintain proper barricades in
accordance with the MUTCD and/or lights as required from the time of the
opening of the excavation until the excavation is surfaced and opened for
travel.
      4.   Naming the city as an additional insured and providing that thirty
(30) days' notice shall be given to the city prior to termination of said
policy, for any reason. Prior to cancellation of insurance, the permittee shall
forthwith close the excavation and complete all work site restoration work.
      5.   A franchised utility, holder of a blanket easement from the city or
property owner performing a small excavation adjacent to his/her residence may
be relieved of the obligation of submitting certificates of insurance if such
person or company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that it is
insured or has adequate assets and provisions for self-insurance. Public
utilities may submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of
individual submissions for each permit. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
   I.   Cash Deposit: The person applying for an excavation permit deposits
with the city a cash deposit in the amount required by the city's fee schedule
if the excavation is in a sidewalk or other paved or hard surfaced area, to
ensure proper restoration of the ground or laying up the concrete or pavement,
if any. Said deposit shall be automatically forfeited by the applicant should
the city be required to undertake or cause to have undertaken any work which
the applicant is required to do and within the time allowed under the
provisions of this chapter. If the work authorized under said permit shall be
completed to the satisfaction of the city, the deposit shall be returned to the
applicant. A franchised utility or holder of a blanket easement from the city
need not furnish any deposit thereunder. (Ord. 2008-15, 12-9-2008)
8-2-4: MISREPRESENTATION IN AND CONFORMITY WITH APPLICATION:
No person shall misrepresent any material fact in an application for an
excavation permit and no person shall excavate on, into or under any street,
sidewalk or public way in excess of the dimensions listed on the application
for an excavation permit for such excavation. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
8-2-5: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
   A.   Vertical Cuts: Pavement, concrete and other hard surfaces shall be cut
vertically along neat, straight lines forming the trench and in such manner as
not to damage the adjoining pavement or existing improvements. The portion to
be removed shall be broken up in a manner that will not cause damage to the
pavement outside the limits of the trench. Large pieces of pavement resulting
from the excavation shall be removed immediately from the work site.
   B.   Expeditious Manner: The excavation will be carried on in an expeditious
manner so as to minimize the interference with the use of the public way. (Ord.
84-01, 2-14-1984)
8-2-6: RESTORATION:
   A.   Trench Backfill: Material for backfill shall be selected granular
backfill. All broken pavement, concrete, peat, vegetable matter and similar
materials obtained from the excavation shall be removed from the site prior to
the beginning of backfilling. No frozen material shall be used for backfill.
Material shall be compacted in uniform layers not exceeding six inches (6") in
loose depth to ninety six percent (96%) of maximum density and shall not
contain stones greater than two inches (2"). Clean sand, as classified by the
American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials (AASHTO) may be
compacted in eight inch (8") layers. Water jetting will not be allowed. The
applicant shall perform at no cost to the city all tests required by the city
to assure proper compaction and submit test reports to the city engineer or
other authorized representative.
   B.   Surface Restoration:
      1.   Specifications For Hard Surfaces: All street surfacing, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, driveways or other hard surfaces which have been removed in
the course of performance of work authorized under the excavation permit issued
by the city, shall be restored in kind by the excavator, unless otherwise
indicated in writing upon said permit. Where excavations are made in paved
areas, the surface shall immediately be replaced with a temporary untreated
base course (UTBC). The UTBC shall be placed deep enough to provide a minimum
of eight inches (8") below the bituminous or concrete surface or as specified
on the permit. The UTBC shall be placed in the trench at the time of backfill
and maintained by the excavator in a manner which is satisfactory to the city
and which will provide a safe travel surface. Permanent resurfacing shall be
complete in not less than seventy two (72) hours from the date of commencement
of the excavation, except for periods:
         a.   When permanent paving materials are not available.
         b.   When authorized in writing by the city engineer or other
authorized representative of the city.
         c.   When weather conditions prevent permanent replacement.
      2.   Temporary Repairs: If a temporary repair has been made on a paved
street with gravel and a permanent repair cannot be made within seventy two
(72) hours due to any conditions mentioned above, then the excavator shall be
required to replace the gravel with concrete within seventy two (72) hours.
   C.   Gravel Surfaces:
      1.   General: Trenches excavated in gravel surface areas such as gravel
roads, gravel shoulders and unpaved driveways shall have the gravel restored as
described below.
      2.   Materials: Untreated base course material shall meet the following
gradation requirements:
 
Description            Percent
Passing 1 inch sieve    100
Passing 1/2 inch sieve  79 - 91
Passing no. 4 sieve     49 - 61
Passing No. 16 sieve    27 - 35
Passing No. 200 sieve   7 - 11
 
      3.   Construction:
         a.   On the surface, after the sub-base has been graded, compacted and
approved by the City, the general surface shall be placed to provide a minimum
compacted thickness of eight inches (8") or the thickness of the gravel surface
removed, whichever is thicker. Materials shall be at near optimum moisture and
spread in uniform layers across the entire width of the area and compacted to
ninety six percent (96%) of maximum density as determined by AASHTO-T-180.
         b.   The surface shall be maintained to provide for a smooth flow of
traffic without holes, bumps, etc., until final acceptance of the work.
   D.   Gravel Road Base:
      1.   General: Trenches or foundations excavated in bituminous surface
areas such as road or parking areas shall have the gravel road base restored as
specified herein. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
      2.   Materials: Gravel road base material shall meet the gradation
requirements specified in Utah Department of Transportation standards. (Ord.
84-01, 2-14-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
      3.   Construction:
         a.   After the excavation has been backfilled, compacted and approved
by the City, gravel road base shall be placed in the trench or foundation pit
to provide the minimum thickness specified after compaction.
         b.   Gravel road base shall be restored to the thickness of twelve
inches (12"). The road base shall be placed and compacted in two (2) 6-inch
layers.
      4.   Placing:
         a.   Where directed by the City, the gravel road base shall be treated
with a prime coat consisting of a medium bituminous material grade MC-70 or MC-
250 conforming to the requirements of AASHTO Specification M-82. The prime coat
shall be uniformly applied by approved spraying equipment to the gravel base
surface in the amount of 0.30 gallons per square yard of surface. The edges of
existing pavement shall be sprayed with a tack coat consisting of a bituminous
material grade RC-70 or SS-1. The bituminous surface course shall be placed and
compacted thereon to the depth of the bituminous material removed but not less
than three inches (3") thick.
         b.   Before placing any bituminous surface course, the excavator shall
submit for approval to the City his proposed methods for placing and compacting
the bituminous surface course.
         c.   The bituminous surface course shall be placed by methods approved
by the City.
         d.   The mixture shall leave the plant at a temperature between two
hundred ninety degrees Fahrenheit (290°F) and three hundred twenty five degrees
Fahrenheit (325°F) and shall be spread at a temperature of not less than two
hundred eighty degrees Fahrenheit (280°F). Any batch or mixture that has been
heated to a temperature greater than three hundred twenty five degrees
Fahrenheit (325°F) shall not be used in the pavement.
         e.   The untreated base course shall be at near optimum moisture,
spread in uniform layers across the entire width of the area and compacted to
ninety six percent (96%) of maximum density as determined by AASHTO T-180.
   E.   Bituminous Surface Course:
      1.   General: Trenches or foundations excavated in bituminous surfaced
areas such as roads or parking areas, etc., shall have the bituminous surface
restored as specified herein.
      2.   Plant Mixed Bituminous Surface Course: Bituminous surface course
shall consist of a mixture of mineral aggregate and a bituminous material
viscosity graded asphalt mixed at a central mixing plant and spread and
compacted on a prepared base to a thickness of paving adjacent to the trench
area but not less than three inches (3"), all in accordance with the 1979
Edition and Addendum No. 1 of the Utah Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, paragraphs 402.02 to and
including 403.08, unless specified otherwise herein.
         a.   Materials:
            (1)   Bituminous material shall be AC-10 grade.
            (2)   Mineral aggregate shall meet the following gradation
requirements:
 
Description            Percent
Passing 3/8-inch sieve 69 - 91
Passing No. 4 sieve    42 - 58
Passing No. 16 sieve   17 - 31
Passing No. 50 sieve   9 - 21
Passing No. 200 sieve  4 - 8
 
         b.   Mix:
            (1)   The asphalt content of the mix shall be 5.5 percent to 6.25
percent by weight. The final mix shall meet the following requirements:
 
Marshall stability 1200 - 2500 lbs.
Flow (0.01 inch)   10 - 18 hundredths
Voids content      1.5% - 3.0%
 
            (2)   As specified in the latest edition of the Asphalt Institute
Manual, Series No. 2, the supplier shall submit a mix design showing the
aggregate gradation, the asphalt grade and content, the Marshall stability,
flow and voids content for the mix as well as the maximum density which could
be obtained with that mix.
         c.   Testing: Random samples of the surface course shall be selected
by the City (1 sample shall be taken for each 100 square yards placed) and
shall be tested for density by an independent testing laboratory at the
excavator's expense. If the density is less than ninety six percent (96%) of
maximum density as shown in the mix design, the bituminous surface shall be
removed and hauled away at the expense of the contractor and new bituminous
material compacted until ninety six percent (96%) of maximum density is
achieved.
      3.   Contact Surface:
         a.   Contact surface of curbing, gutters, manholes and other
structures, shall be painted with tack coat consisting of a cut back asphalt
grade RC-250 or SS-1 immediately before the paving materials are placed against
them. Care should be taken during application to prevent the tack coat from
being applied to exposed concrete above the contact surfaces.
         b.   Immediately adjacent to gutters, manholes and other structures,
the bituminous surface course shall be spread uniformly high, so that after
compaction it will be slightly above the edges of such structures.
         c.   Along curbs, gutters, manholes and other places inaccessible to
the roller, the materials shall be thoroughly compacted with hand tampers, but
extreme care shall be exercised to prevent damaging the adjacent surfaces.
         d.   Should the surface pavement show oil-rich patches after rolling,
then the materials shall be removed from such areas and replaced with suitable
material.
         e.   Should the surface or pavement after rolling or while being
rolled become cracked or appear to be loose or broken up, all the material
covering such area shall be removed and shall be replaced with suitable
material.
         f.   For any road cut parallel to and within three feet (3') of the
edge of asphalt or lip of curb, the remaining strip of existing asphalt shall
be removed and the entire area repaved.
      4.   Compaction:
         a.   After the material for the layer or course has been uniformly
spread as above described, it shall be compacted by rolling with self-propelled
rollers. The rollers shall be operated at a speed of between one hundred (100)
and one hundred fifty feet (150') per minute. All rollers shall be in first
class mechanical condition, smooth running and shall start and stop evenly
without jerking. Gasoline powered rollers shall have engines with at least four
(4) cylinders. The rollers shall be true cylinders and any rollers showing
bulges or depressions under a straight edge applied anywhere across the face
shall not be used on the pavement.
         b.   Rolling of the bituminous surface course shall begin as soon
after spreading as it will bear the roller without undue displacement or hair
cracking.
         c.   Rolling shall continue until after roller marks are eliminated,
until the surface is of uniform texture and true to grade and cross section or
until the density of at least ninety six percent (96%) of the theoretical
density is obtained.
         d.   To prevent adhesion of the mixture to the rollers, the wheels of
the rollers shall be kept properly moistened, but no excess of either water or
oil will be permitted.
      5.   Weather Limitations: No bituminous surface course shall be placed
when the temperature of the air in the shade or the temperature of the roadbed
is below forty degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) during rainy weather, when the
subgrade or subbase is wet, or during other weather conditions determined by
the city to be unfavorable.
   F.   Concrete Restoration: Concrete joints and surfaces shall be made to
match the original surface. Concrete shall have compressive strength no less
than three thousand five hundred (3,500) pounds per square inch at the end of
twenty eight (28) days, using 7.0 bag mix. Driveways shall have minimum of six
inches (6") of compacted UTBC. Curb, gutter and sidewalks shall have a minimum
of three inches (3") of compacted gravel base course, unless otherwise
specified by the city. No concrete shall be poured where the air temperature is
lower than forty degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) at a location where the concrete
cannot be covered or protected from the surrounding air. When concrete is
poured at a temperature below thirty five degrees Fahrenheit (35°F), the
ingredients of the concrete shall be heated so that the temperature of the
mixture shall be not less than fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F) or more than one
hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F). Before mixing, the heated aggregates shall
not exceed one hundred twenty five degrees Fahrenheit (125°F) and the
temperature of heated water shall not exceed one hundred seventy five degrees
Fahrenheit (175°F). Cement shall not be added while the temperature of the
mixed aggregate and water is greater than one hundred degrees Fahrenheit
(100°F). When there is likelihood of freezing during the curing period, the
concrete shall be protected by means of an insulated covering and/or heating to
prevent freezing of the concrete for a period of not less than four (4) days
after placing. Concrete shall not be placed on frozen soil. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-
1984)
8-2-7: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
The city shall from time to time inspect all excavations and tunnels being made
in or under any street, alley, sidewalk or any other public way to ensure the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The inspector may reject any
excavation or restoration work or materials which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
8-2-8: MUNICIPAL WORK EXCEPTED:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to excavations of any kind in
city streets, bridges, sidewalks or other public ways which are conducted by
city personnel with the direct supervision of the city engineer or other
authorized representative of the city. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984)
8-2-9: PENALTY:
The violations of any provision of this chapter shall be a class C misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to this criminal penalty, the city attorney may
bring suit in an appropriate court to enjoin any person from excavation without
a permit or seek any other legal or equitable relief for a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 84-01, 2-14-1984; amd. 2000 Code)
8-2-10: APPENDIX:
   A.   Permit Fees: All permit fees shall be paid as required by the city's
fee schedule.
   B.   Bond Required: All required bonds shall be posted in the amounts
specified by the city's fee schedule.
   C.   Exceptions To Requirements:
      1.   Utility Companies: Utility companies making excavations directly or
with bonded private contractors are exempt from the above fees and bond, but
are still required to obtain a permit and to make all construction pursuant to
city ordinances.
      2.   Contract With City: The fee and bond requirements stated above shall
not apply to excavations being made under contract to the city when bonding
requirements have been set forth in the contract. (Ord. 2008-15, 12-9-2008)
CHAPTER 3
WASTEWATER CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Manhole Covers
8-3-3: Damage Or Interference Prohibited
8-3-4: Collection Of Damages
8-3-5: Road Seal Coating Projects; Protective Covers Provided
8-3-6: Project Specifications
8-3-7: Penalty
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
The Board of Trustees of the North Davis County Sewer District hereby requests
that all municipalities within the District and the County Commissions of Davis
County and Weber County adopt by ordinance the Wastewater Control Regulations
to the directors of public works within such municipalities and counties.
Wastewater control ordinance rules and regulations, provide in part, for the
protection and care of physical facilities of the District, including manhole
covers. (Ord. 89-04, 3-14-1989)
8-3-2: MANHOLE COVERS:
No person shall open any manhole without permission from the North Davis County
Sewer District. (Ord. 89-04, 3-14-1989)
8-3-3: DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
It is hereby prohibited and declared unlawful for any person without written
authority from the District to damage, open obstruct, disturb, cover, clog,
pave over, seal coat over, obscure or otherwise interfere with any manhole
cover. (Ord. 89-04, 3-14-1989)
8-3-4: COLLECTION OF DAMAGES:
Whenever any person shall violate any provisions of this Chapter, thereby
causing damage or expense to the District in connection with repair or
maintenance of manhole covers, including uncovering manholes and raising them
to grade, a written statement of costs shall be provided to the person causing
or creating such damage. If any such person fails or refuses to pay damage
costs, the City shall take such action as it deems necessary and appropriate to
collect such expenses, including filing of a lawsuit, if necessary. (Ord. 89-
04, 3-14-1989; amd. 2000 Code)
8-3-5: ROAD SEAL COATING PROJECTS; PROTECTIVE COVERS PROVIDED:
Whenever any person intends to seal coat any street, road, highway, public
thoroughfare, parking lot or similar facility or structure involving the
District's manhole covers, such person shall so inform the District Manager,
whereupon the District Manager shall provide protective covers for all manholes
involved in the project, which protective covers shall be placed over the
manholes by the person doing the work prior to any work being done which may
damage or adversely affect manhole covers. The person responsible for the
project shall remove the seal coat covers immediately after seal coating has
been completed. (Ord. 89-04, 3-14-1989)
8-3-6: PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS:
Whenever any person prepares specifications for any project involving grading,
repaving, resurfacing, seal coating or any other construction work to any
street, road, highway, public thoroughfare, parking lot or similar facility or
structure which involves District manhole covers, such person shall include in
the specifications and solicitations for bids, a requirement that as part of
the project and costs associated therewith, the contractor performing the work
shall be responsible for protecting District manholes covers, restoring them to
grade and otherwise providing for such manhole covers to remain undamaged and
unaffected by the project. (Ord. 89-04, 3-14-1989)
8-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to all
applicable penalties provided for in chapter 7 of Wastewater Control Ordinance-
Rules and Regulations, 1983, of the North Davis County Sewer District. (Ord.
89-04, 3-14-1989)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Designation
8-4-2: Administrative Provisions
8-4-3: Interment In Cemetery Required
8-4-4: Fees And Charges
8-4-5: Lot Sales
8-4-6: Burials
8-4-7: Markers And Headstones
8-4-8: Rules And Regulations
8-4-9: Disinterment
8-4-10: Indigent Persons
8-4-11: Penalty
8-4-1: DESIGNATION:
The city cemetery is hereby named the Clearfield Memorial park and its location
shall be as now shown and designated upon the official plats and maps of the
city. (1966 Code § 10-1-1)
8-4-2: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Management; Maintenance And Operation: The Clearfield Memorial park
shall be under the person or department designated by the city manager to
control and direct the affairs and management of the Clearfield Memorial park.
Such person or department designated shall be directly responsible to the city
manager. The designated city sexton, under the direction of the city council,
shall have complete care and control of the maintenance and operation of the
city cemetery. All markers, planting, improvements or other work of any nature
or description must be done under the direction and control of the city sexton.
No person owning a lot in the city cemetery shall plant, grade or do any work
in the cemetery except by written authority first had and obtained from the
city sexton. The city council shall by resolution designate the type of
markers, grade of ground, plantings and other improvements, which may be
permitted in the city cemetery. (1966 Code §§
10-1-2, 10-1-8; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Records Maintained: The city sexton shall keep in a good and
substantial and well bound book, a true and complete record of the death and
place of burial of every person so reported to him; said book to be furnished
at the expense of the city. All records kept in pursuance of this chapter shall
be the property of the city and at all reasonable times shall be open to the
inspection of the public. At the expiration of his term of office, the city
sexton shall turn all such property over to his successor in office and he
shall report fully to the city council as is required by that body. (1966 Code
§ 10-1-5)
8-4-3: INTERMENT IN CEMETERY REQUIRED:
No body of any deceased person shall be interred within the limits of the city
except in the city cemetery or in such other cemetery as may be hereafter
established by consent of the city council. (1966 Code § 10-1-3)
8-4-4: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Fee Schedule: The fees for services associated with Clearfield Memorial
park shall be paid in accordance with the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 2008-15,
12-9-2008)
   B.   Resident Defined: The definition of a "resident" is as follows:
      1.   Any person who was domiciled within the corporate limits of
Clearfield City at the time of death.
      2.   Any person owning real property within the corporate limits of
Clearfield City at the time of death, regardless of the residence or domicile
of such person.
      3.   Any person who was a legal resident of Clearfield City at the time
of death, regardless of domicile.
      4.   Any person who was formally domiciled within the corporate limits of
Clearfield City, immediately prior to moving from the city for the purpose of
becoming domiciled in any facility for the purpose of receiving medical or
residential care. (Ord. 2004-04, 3-23-2004)
   C.   Re-Marking Gravesites: If the city has to mark a gravesite more than
one time for the benefit of the company or firm providing and placing the
monument, a fee shall be paid for each additional re-mark on the same gravesite
in accordance with the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 2008-15, 12-9-2008)
8-4-5: LOT SALES:
The city sexton and city council are hereby empowered to sell lots in the city
cemetery and to collect all sums arising from such sales. All money so
collected shall be remitted promptly to the city treasurer. The city council is
hereby empowered to regulate by resolution, the selling price and size of lots.
The city sexton shall deliver to each purchaser a certificate for each lot or
part of lot showing the description thereof and stating the price paid
therefor. Such certificate shall also provide that future perpetual care and
maintenance has been paid for said lot. Said certificate shall be issued and
signed by the mayor and shall be attested by the city recorder. The city
recorder shall keep duplicates of stubs of all certificates issued by him and
the city sexton as part of the records of his office. All lots or parts of lots
conveyed as in this section provided, together with all improvements, except
for water, future care and maintenance, and all lots for which payment has been
made for future care and maintenance, shall be exempt from execution and from
tax payment. The payments mentioned in this section shall not be construed to
be in payment of any of the services described in other sections of this
chapter. (1966 Code § 10-1-7)
8-4-6: BURIALS:
   A.   Vault: From and after the effective date hereof, all burials in the
city cemetery shall be incased in a concrete or steel vault. (Res. 45, 5-9-
1966)
   B.   Title To Lot Required: No person shall inter his dead in any cemetery
mentioned in this chapter without first obtaining title to the lot in which he
buries the dead person or written permission from the owner of said lot, or of
the city council. (1966 Code § 10-1-10)
8-4-7: MARKERS AND HEADSTONES:
   A.   Application; Location: No marker or headstone shall be installed prior
to an application filed with the city sexton and installation of same must have
the prior approval of the city sexton and shall be installed at no location
other than that specifically designated by the city sexton in each case.
   B.   Border: All markers installed shall have a border of concrete which
shall be a minimum of three and one-half inches (31/2") in width and a minimum
of four inches (4") in thickness flush with the marker and flush with the level
of the ground and completely surrounding all of the four (4) sides of any such
marker.
   C.   Level With Ground: No markers or headstones shall be installed or
allowed which protrude or extend above ground level. (Res. 45, 5-9-1966)
8-4-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Vehicles: Driving on lots, backing over graves, cutting corners or
speeding in the cemetery is prohibited. (1966 Code § 10-1-9)
   B.   Animals: It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent, caretaker or other
persons in charge of livestock to allow or negligently permit animals to run at
large or trespass on cemetery grounds. (1966 Code § 10-1-13)
   C.   Defacing Or Removing Shrubs Or Markers: No person shall injure, deface,
take or carry away from any grave or lot any monument, marker, tree, shrub,
flower, ground or any other property or ornament in the city cemetery except
with written permission of the city sexton. (1966 Code § 10-1-12)
8-4-9: DISINTERMENT:
No person shall disinter any body in any cemetery mentioned in this chapter
except under the direction of the city sexton, and no buried body shall be
removed except by the permission of the Davis County health officer. (1966 Code
§ 10-1-11; amd. 2000 Code)
8-4-10: INDIGENT PERSONS:
Such lots as the city council shall from time to time designate shall be
reserved for the burial of indigent persons. (1966 Code § 10-1-4)
8-4-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a class C misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1966 Code § 10-1-14; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Vehicles And Animals
8-5-2: Hours Of Closure
8-5-1: VEHICLES AND ANIMALS:
   A.   Vehicle Defined: For purposes of this section, a "motor vehicle" shall
mean any wheeled or track laying vehicle propelled or driven by a combustion
engine or by a combustion electrical or other engine or motor of any kind or
nature whatsoever, and shall specifically include, but not be limited to,
automobiles, motorcycles and scooters, and power driven bicycles. (1966 Code §
6-1-35.1)
   B.   Prohibited; Exception:
      1.   No person shall drive, operate or ride any motor vehicle or horse
into, across or on any public park, playground or recreational area owned or
controlled by the city. (1966 Code § 6-1-35.1; amd. 2000 Code)
      2.   The city council authorizes the police department to use horses to
patrol the city parks. (Res. 94R-9, 6-28-1994)
8-5-2: HOURS OF CLOSURE:
   A.   Specified: Except for the city building and attendance at city
sponsored or city approved activities, it shall be unlawful for any person,
minor or adult, to be on any public property, including city parks, parking
lots and sidewalks within park boundaries during the hours of twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 95-7, 7-25-1995)
   B.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to the following:
      1.   An individual or group that is involved in a city sponsored activity
where a city employee or an agent of the city is present.
      2.   While traveling directly to or from a public safety facility with a
legitimate and lawful purpose.
      3.   In any areas that may be designated for overnight camping, provided
those camping possess a permit therefor.
      4.   By written permit; provided, that the possessor of the permit
strictly complies with the requirements therein.
   C.   Permit Process: The city manager or his designated representative may
issue permits for late night or overnight stays in city parks based upon the
following criteria:
      1.   That the park contains the necessary facilities to provide for such
activities without any detrimental affect on the park property.
      2.   That the purpose of the stay is consistent with the use and purpose
of the park.
      3.   The proximity of the park property to residential uses and the
reasonableness of the impact upon those residential uses.
      4.   If the specific park has been the location of criminal activity.
      5.   The size and makeup of the group in order to assess impact and
ensure adult supervision. The minimum ratio of adult to minor shall be one
adult, twenty one (21) years of age or more, for every four (4) persons under
the age of eighteen (18) years.
      6.   A review of the applicant's summary of the activities planned or
anticipated for the outing.
      7.   Other criteria that is reasonable and consistent with maintaining
the consistent purpose and use of each parcel of public property. (Ord. 94-18,
10-25-1994; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be deemed a class C
misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 95-7, 7-25-1995; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TELECOMMUNICATIONS USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
8-6-1: Findings And Intent; Authority
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Administration; General Provisions
8-6-4: Applicability; Exceptions
8-6-5: Franchise Required
8-6-6: Application For Franchise
8-6-7: Compensation, Fees And Payments
8-6-8: Insurance, Record Requirements
8-6-9: Construction, Technical Requirements
8-6-10: Private Property; Obligation To Notify
8-6-11: Transfer Of Franchise And License
8-6-12: Enforcement; Rights Of City
8-6-13: Severability
8-6-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT; AUTHORITY:
   A.   Rights Of Way: The City finds that the rights of way within the City:
      1.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the business and social life of the City;
      2.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      3.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and other
public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered for
profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general economic well-
being of the City and its citizens; and
      4.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation and maintenance in the rights of way.
   B.   Compensation: The City finds that the City should receive fair and
reasonable compensation for use of the rights of way.
   C.   Local Concern: The City finds that while telecommunications systems are
in part an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve
rights of way, municipal franchising and vital business and community service,
which are of local concern.
   D.   Promotion Of Telecommunications Services: The City finds that it is in
the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote the rapid
development of telecommunications services, on a nondiscriminatory basis,
responsive to community and public interest, and to assure availability for
City, educational and community services.
   E.   Franchise Standards: The City finds that it is in the interests of the
public to franchise and to establish standards for franchising providers in a
manner that:
      1.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the City on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
      2.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights of way to serve the public;
      3.   Fully protects the public interests and the City from any harm that
may flow from such commercial use of rights of way;
      4.   Protects the police powers and rights of way management authority of
the City, in a manner consistent with Federal and State law;
      5.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use
of the City infrastructure;
      6.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the rights of
way; and
      7.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication services, within
the meaning of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
   F.   Power To Manage Rights Of Way: The City adopts this telecommunications
Chapter pursuant to its power to manage the rights of way, pursuant to common
law, the Utah Constitution and statutory authority, and receive fair and
reasonable compensation for the use of rights of way by providers as expressly
set forth by section 253 of the Act. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this Section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights of way of all, or a
part, of the City. An application includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the City concerning: the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights of way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the City by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
CITY: Clearfield City, Utah.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the City.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make-ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group of
persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). Control or
controlling interest, as used herein, may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligations extended by the City to a provider to
own, lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights of way
within the boundaries of the City. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include:
   A.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the City required by the
ordinances and laws of the City;
   B.   Any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection
with operations on rights of way or public property, including, without
limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits
or other structures, whether owned by the City or a private entity, or for
excavating or performing other work in or along the rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter between the City and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this Chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26,
as amended.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to sections 651 et seq., of the
Telecommunications Act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
fiber optic, microwave, laser beams and any associated converters, equipment,
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the City.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE: This Chapter concerning the granting
of franchises in and by the City for the construction, ownership, operation,
use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
PSC: The Public Service Commission or any successor thereto.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust or any other legal entity, but not the City.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the Act (47 USC 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is commonly
known as cellular and PSC services that do not install any system or portion of
a system in the rights of way.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, resaler or system lessee.
RESALER: Refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a
system for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or
lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the City.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser
or radio frequency energy or optical information, in either analog or digital
format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES: Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the City that the provider is authorized to
provide under Federal, State and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the City, except
that these terms do not include "cable service", as defined in the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 USC 521 et seq.) and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996. Telecommunications service or services also
includes an open video service.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider, located in the rights of way
and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or analog,
voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications services.
Telecommunications system or systems also includes an open video system.
WIRE: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
8-6-3: ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
Chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this Chapter
shall control.
   B.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the City to liberally amend
this Chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently or economically serve itself or the public. (Ord. 98-
12, 12-8-1998)
   C.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the City required under this
Chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the Mayor. A provider shall provide in
any application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number of the
designated person to receive notices from the City. A provider shall
immediately notify the City of any change in its name, address or telephone
number. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the City reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers.
   E.   Construction:
      1.   Federal And State Statutes: This Chapter shall be construed in a
manner consistent with all applicable Federal and State statutes.
      2.   Applicability: This Chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or
renewed after the effective date hereof. This Chapter shall further apply, to
the extent permitted by applicable Federal or State law, to all existing
franchises granted prior to the effective date hereof and to a provider
providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective date hereof.
      3.   Other Applicable Ordinances: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the City to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the City pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the City zoning
and other land use requirements.
      4.   City Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter by reason of any failure of the City
to enforce prompt compliance.
      5.   Construed According To Utah Law: This Chapter and any franchise
granted pursuant to this Chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance
with the substantive laws of the State. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
8-6-4: APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Providers: This Chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for
providers of telecommunications services and systems that require the use of
the rights of way, including providers of both the system and service, those
providers of the system only and those providers who do not build the system
but who only provide services. This chapter shall apply to all future providers
and to all providers in the city prior to the effective date hereof, whether
operating with or without a franchise as set forth in section
8-6-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Excluded Activities:
      1.   Cable Television Operators: This chapter shall not apply to cable
television operators otherwise regulated.
      2.   Wireless Service Facilities: This chapter shall not apply to
personal wireless service facilities.
   C.   Excluded Providers; Provisions Applicable: Providers excused by other
law that prohibits the city from requiring a franchise shall not be required to
obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this chapter through
the exercise of the city's police power and not preempted by other law shall be
applicable. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
8-6-5: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   Nonexclusive Franchise; Authority: The city is empowered and authorized
to issue nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction and
maintenance of systems in the city's rights of way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider.
   B.   Provider Required To Obtain: Except to the extent preempted by federal
or state law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to
constructing a telecommunications system or providing telecommunications
services using the rights of way, and every provider must obtain a franchise
before constructing an open video system or providing open video services via
an open video system. Any open video system or service shall be subject to the
customer service and consumer protection provisions applicable to the cable TV
companies to the extent the city is not preempted as ultimately interpreted by
a court of competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The fact that
particular telecommunications systems may be used for multiple purposes does
not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By way of
illustration, and not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must
obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications
services over the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
(Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
   C.   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights of way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights of
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned, or
subleased, except as may be expressly provided in the franchise agreement. A
franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate access or pole
attachment agreements before collocating its system on the property of others,
including the city's property. This subsection shall not be construed to
prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so long as the
lessee has obtained a franchise. (Ord. 00-18, 10-10-2000)
   D.   Current Providers; Time Limit To Request: Except to the extent exempted
by federal or state law, any provider acting without a franchise on the
effective date hereof shall request issuance of a franchise from the city
within ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof. If such request is made,
the provider may continue providing service during the course of negotiations.
If a timely request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is
not granted, the provider shall comply with the provisions of subsection 8-6-
12D of this chapter.
   E.   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights of way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the city upon the written request of the city
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G.   Term: No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of
less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
8-6-6: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE:
   A.   Required; Form: To obtain a franchise to construct, own, maintain or
provide services through any system within the city, to obtain a renewal of a
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter or to obtain the city approval of a
transfer of a franchise, as provided in section
8-6-11 of this chapter, granted pursuant to this chapter, an application must
be filed with the city on the form attached to the ordinance codified herein as
exhibit A, which is hereby incorporated by reference. The application form may
be changed by the mayor so long as such changes request information that is
consistent with this chapter. Such application form, as amended, is
incorporated by reference.
   B.   Criteria: In making a determination as to an application filed pursuant
to this chapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to, request or consider
the following:
      1.   Obtaining an order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity.
      2.   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
city for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights of way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider.
      3.   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   C.   Determination By City: The city, in its discretion, shall determine the
award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations relevant
to the use of the rights of way, without competitive bidding. (Ord. 98-12, 12-
8-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
8-6-7: COMPENSATION, FEES AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation; Provider Obligations: As fair and reasonable compensation
for any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the
following obligations: (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
      1.   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the city to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city, at the time of application, a
nonrefundable application fee in the amount required by the city's fee
schedule. (Ord. 2008-15, 12-9-2008)
      2.   Franchise Fee: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
business license tax enacted by the city. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
      3.   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 2008-15, 12-9-
2008)
   B.   Due Monthly: Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Statement Of Calculation; Certification: Unless a franchise agreement
provides otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement
showing the manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to
its accuracy.
   D.   Future Costs: A provider shall pay to the city or to third parties, at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the city incurs for the services of third parties
(including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider initiated renegotiation, or amendment of this
chapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, either party may submit the issue to binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American
Arbitration Association.
   E.   Taxes, Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the city on the use of the city
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights of way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   G.   Acceptance Of Fee; Not Construed Satisfaction: No acceptance by the
city of any fee shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact
the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed
as a release of any claim the City may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Additional Taxes Or Fees Still Applicable: The fee payment is not a
payment in lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment, except as specifically
provided in this Chapter or as required by applicable law. By way of example,
and not limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the
City-owned poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Operation After Term; Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event
a provider continues to operate all or any part of the system after the term of
the franchise, such operator shall continue to comply with all applicable
provisions of this Chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation,
all compensation and other payment provisions throughout the period of such
continued operation; provided, that any such continued operation shall in no
way be construed as a renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a
limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the City as a result of such
continued operation after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and
restitution.
   J.   Publication Costs: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-
1998)
8-6-8: INSURANCE, RECORD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance Required: Prior to the execution of a franchise, a provider
will deposit with the City an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit or
surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and shall obtain and
provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the franchise. A provider
shall also indemnify the City as set forth in the franchise.
   B.   Inspection By City; Management: The City shall have the right to
oversee, regulate and inspect periodically the construction, maintenance and
upgrade of the system, and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions
of the franchise and applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain
managerial and operational records, standards, procedures and controls to
enable a provider to prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the
City at all times throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with
the franchise. A provider shall retain such records for not less than the
applicable statute of limitations.
   C.   Records Maintenance: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the City, a full and complete set of plans, records and
as-built hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an electronic
format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the City's
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights of way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks, which shall include annotations of all rights of
way where work will be undertaken. As used herein, as-built maps include file
construction prints. Maps shall be drawn to scale. As-built maps, including the
compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be submitted within
thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30) days after
completion of modification and repairs. As-built maps are not required of the
provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the existing system to
the extent they do not exist.
      2.   Throughout the term of the franchise, a complete and accurate books
of account and records of the business, ownership and operations of a provider
with respect to the system in a manner that allows the City at all times to
determine whether a provider is in compliance with the franchise. Should the
City reasonably determine that the records are not being maintained in such a
manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the books and/or records are
maintained so that a provider comes into compliance with this Section. All
financial books and records which are maintained in accordance with the
regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that regulates utilities in
the State and generally accepted accounting principles shall be deemed to be
acceptable under this Section.
   D.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by Federal, State or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act (GRAMA), making it available only to those who must have access
to perform their duties on behalf of the City; provided, that a provider
notifies the City of, and clearly labels the information which a provider deems
to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling
shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this Chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this Chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right Of Inspection: For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
City at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records. The provider agrees to reimburse the
City the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit discloses that the provider
has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the compensation due the City for
the period of such audit. In the event the accounting rendered to the City by
the provider herein is found to be incorrect, then payment shall be made on the
corrected amount within thirty (30) calendar days of written notice, it being
agreed that the City may accept any amount offered by the provider, but the
acceptance thereof by the City shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if
the amount is in dispute or is later found to be incorrect. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-
1998)
8-6-9: CONSTRUCTION, TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required; Excavation Permit: No provider shall receive a
franchise unless it agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this
Section governing construction and technical requirements for its system, in
addition to any other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the
City or the franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in
the cost of locating portions of the system with other systems or with City
utilities. A provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to Chapter 2
of this Title, before commencing any work in the rights of way.
   B.   Quality And Performance Of Work: All work involved in the construction,
maintenance, repair, upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a
safe, thorough and reliable manner, using materials of good and durable
quality. If, at any time, it is determined by the FCC or any other agency
granted authority by Federal law or the FCC to make such determination, that
any part of the system, including, without limitation, any means used to
distribute signals over or within the system, is harmful to the public health,
safety or welfare, or quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall,
at its own cost and expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the City to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines; Excavation Requirements: If the grades or lines
of any rights of way are changed at any time in a manner affecting the system,
then a provider shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 2 of this Title.
      2.   Emergency; City Authority To Move System: The City may, at any time,
in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the City in its
reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances
on, over or under the rights of way of the City, in which event the City shall
not be liable therefor to a provider. The City shall notify a provider in
writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible and in
no case later than the next business day following any action taken under this
Section. Notice shall be given as provided in subsection 8-6-3C of this
Chapter.
      3.   Temporary Move For Third Party: A provider shall, upon prior
reasonable written notice by the City or any person holding a permit to move
any structure, and within the time that is reasonable under the circumstances,
temporarily move any part of its system to permit the moving of said structure.
A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any person other than the City for
any such movement of its systems.
      4.   Change In Rights Of Way; Obligation To Move System: When the City is
changing a rights of way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the rights of way, without cost to the City, to
the extent provided in Chapter 2 of this Title. This obligation does not apply
to systems originally located on private property pursuant to a private
easement, which property was later incorporated into the rights of way, if that
private easement grants a superior vested right. This obligation exists whether
or not the provider has obtained an excavation permit.
   E.   Protection Of Structures, Landmarks: In connection with the
construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider
shall, at its own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures
belonging to the City and all designated landmarks, as well as all other
structures within any designated landmark district. A provider shall obtain the
prior written consent of the City to alter any water main, power facility,
sewerage or drainage system, or any other City structure on, over or under the
rights of way of the City required because of the presence of the system. Any
such alteration shall be made by the City or its designee on a reimbursable
basis. A provider agrees that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the
City to replace or repair and restore to its prior condition in a manner as may
be reasonably specified by the City, any City structure or any other rights of
way of the City involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or
removal of the system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of any
work thereon by or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   F.   Obstructions Prohibited: In connection with the construction,
maintenance, upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not
unreasonably obstruct the rights of way of fixed guide way systems, railways,
passenger travel or other traffic to, from or within the City without the prior
consent of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable Federal, State and local requirements, including, but not
limited to, the National Electric Safety Code.
   H.   Repair Of Rights Of Way: After written reasonable notice to the
provider, unless, in the sole determination of the City, an eminent danger
exists, any rights of way within the City which are disturbed or damaged during
the construction, maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may
be repaired by the City at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as
that prevailing before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the City shall
submit to such a provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and
restoring the rights of ways intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty
(30) days after receipt of the statement, pay to the City the entire amount
thereof.
   I.   Maintenance Of System: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise.
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the National
Electrical Safety Code and all applicable other Federal, State and local laws
or regulations.
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the City of the system and its effect on the rights of way.
   J.   Trimming Trees; Authority: A provider shall have the authority to trim
trees, in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and
easement restrictions, upon and hanging over rights of way so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with its system. (Ord. 98-12, 12-
8-1998)
8-6-10: PRIVATE PROPERTY; OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
8-6-11: TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE AND LICENSE:
   A.   Notification Of Sale:
      1.   PSC Approval: When a provider is the subject of a sale, transfer,
lease, assignment, sublease or disposal of, in whole or in part, either by
forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or otherwise,
such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek the
approval of the PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly notify
the City of the nature of the transaction. The notification shall include
either:
         a.   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement; or
         b.   The successor entity's application in compliance with Section
8-6-6 of this Chapter.
      2.   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this Section, the City
designee, as provided in Section
8-6-12 of this Chapter, shall send notice approving the transfer of the
franchise to the successor entity. If the City has reason to believe that the
successor entity may not comply with this Chapter or the franchise agreement,
it may require an application for the transfer. The application shall comply
with Section
8-6-6 of this Chapter.
      3.   PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists or if
its regulations or State law no longer require approval of transactions
described in subsection A1 of this Section, and the City has good cause to
believe that the successor entity may not comply with this Chapter or the
franchise agreement, it may require an application. The application shall
comply with Section
8-6-6 of this Chapter.
   B.   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with
subsection A of this Section:
      1.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
provider's assets to another person;
      2.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a provider;
      3.   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new controlling
interest in such a provider; or
      4.   The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of such provider or its system. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
8-6-12: ENFORCEMENT; RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Enforcement; Remedies:
      1.   City Designee: The City is responsible for enforcing and
administering this Chapter and the City or its designee, as appointed by the
City Manager, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any
franchise agreement.
      2.   Enforcement Provisions: Any franchise granted pursuant to this
Chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this Chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the bond/security fund and rights of termination or revocation.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this Chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this subsection, causes or
events not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation,
acts of God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation; Continuity Of Services:
      1.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter, the City shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this Chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this Chapter.
      2.   Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier; Negotiate Renewal: If the provider
is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith. (Ord.
98-12, 12-8-1998)
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that: a) the use of any portion of
the system is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months and
thirty (30) days after no response to written notice from the City to the last
known address of provider; b) any system has been installed in the rights of
way without complying with the requirements of this Chapter or franchise, a
provider, except the provider who is an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall
be deemed to have abandoned such system. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998; amd. 2000
Code)
      2.   Removal Of Abandoned System: The City, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this Chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The City shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights of way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
Chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this Section.
      3.   Transfer Of Abandoned System To City: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the City, shall submit to the City a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the City, transferring to the City
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4.   Removal Of Aboveground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this Chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the City shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights of way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If the provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall
not be required to remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good
faith.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this Chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights of
way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (Ord. 98-12, 12-8-1998)
8-6-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Chapter is held by any Federal, State or local court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as conflicting with any Federal or
State statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in any way in order to
conform to the requirements of any such law and all appellate remedies with
regard to the validity of the Chapter provisions in question are exhausted,
such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct and independent part of
this Chapter, and such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability
of all other provisions hereof. In the event that such law is subsequently
repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that the provision which
had been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with such law, the
provision in question shall return to full force and effect and shall again be
binding on the City and the provider; provided, that the City shall give the
provider thirty (30) days, or a longer period of time as may be reasonably
required for a provider to comply with such a rejuvenated provision, written
notice of the change before requiring compliance with such provision. (Ord. 98-
12, 12-8-1998)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Application For Connection
9-1-2: Water Connection; Fees
9-1-3: Sewer Connection; Fees
9-1-4: Buildings Under Separate Ownership
9-1-5: Application For Service
9-1-6: Water Service Rates
9-1-7: Sewer Service Rates
9-1-8: Special Fees And Discounts
9-1-9: Billing And Payment Procedures; Delinquency
9-1-10: Rules And Regulations; Generally
9-1-11: Prohibited Acts
9-1-12: Private Systems; Discontinuance
9-1-13: Liability For Damages
9-1-14: Penalty
9-1-1: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION:
Whenever any new connection to the water system or to the sewer system is
desired, the applicant for such connection shall file with the city on a form
provided by the city a written and signed connection application. (Ord. 95-2,
3-14-1995)
9-1-2: WATER CONNECTION; FEES:
New water mains, fire hydrants, and laterals, including meter assemblies, shall
be installed at the expense of the property owner, subdivider, or developer in
accordance with city regulations and inspection. The city shall set the meter
and make a final inspection upon receipt of the fee required by the city's
current fee schedule. Such fee shall cover the cost of the meter and the
inspection and shall be paid at the time the building permit is issued. (Ord.
2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-1-3: SEWER CONNECTION; FEES:
There shall be a fee for each new sewer connection by a new subdivision, mobile
home park, trailer park, camping park or any other multiple use operation, and
for each new lot within a subdivision, mobile home park, trailer park, camping
park or any other multiple use operation. Said fees shall be paid to the city
at the time application for connection is made in the amounts specified by the
city's currently adopted fee schedule. No connection to the city sanitary sewer
system shall be made until formal application has been filed and the connection
fee and inspection fees paid as herein required. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-1-4: BUILDINGS UNDER SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:
From and after the effective date hereof, each building, structure or edifice
of every kind and nature, requiring water and sewer which is held under
separate ownership, shall be required to have a separate water meter and
connection and a separate sewer connection. (Ord. 95-2, 3-14-1995)
   A.   Multiple Ownership: Whenever any grouping or combination of buildings,
structures or edifices are held under a single ownership at the time water and
sewer connections are made thereto and thereafter shall be sold or transferred
of record resulting in any such property becoming vested in two (2) or more
ownerships, each separate ownership shall at that time be required to have
installed a separate water meter and shall pay the applicable connection rate
therefor. It is specifically provided, however, that in the event of separation
of ownership, the owner/operator of the property having the original water and
sewer connections shall remain liable to the city for all charges accruing
under the original connections until separate water meters and sewer
connections have been installed as herein required. (Ord. 95-2, 3-14-1995; amd.
2000 Code)
   B.   Mobile Home Parks; Multiple-Family Dwellings: Each mobile home space
within a mobile home park shall be served with an individual water meter. Each
dwelling unit in a building with four (4) or less units shall be served with
individual water meters. Multiple-family dwelling buildings with five (5) or
more dwelling units shall be served with an individual water meter for each
building. (Ord. 95-2, 3-14-1995)
9-1-5: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Required: The owner of real property to which these services are to be
connected or such owner’s registered agent 1 , must submit a written
application for such services agreeing to pay for all utility services
furnished to the property, whether occupied by the owner or by a tenant or
other occupant. (Ord. 2015-18, 11-24-2015)
   B.   Deposit: At the time of filing such application, there shall be
deposited with the city an amount required by the city’s fee schedule to be
retained by the city as guarantee for the payment of all water and sewer
charges that may accrue against the property to be serviced. Such deposit shall
not be considered as advance payment of any service charges and unpaid accounts
shall be considered delinquent notwithstanding the existence of such deposit
and the user shall not have the right to compel the city to apply such deposit
to any account to avoid delinquency; provided, however, that the city may, at
its option, apply such deposit to any unpaid account. If the city does apply
such deposit to any unpaid account where the user has moved or terminated water
or sewer service, any amount of said deposit remaining after payment of said
account shall be returned to the user, except that the city need not refund any
amount less than ten dollars ($10.00) or no deposit need be returned to the
user and will be deemed forfeited if the whereabouts of the user is unknown and
no address has been provided to the city within thirty (30) days following the
termination of service.
   C.   Refund Of Deposit: All property owners who shall have kept their water
and sewer account current at all times for a continuous period of twelve (12)
months from the date of initial deposit shall have said deposit refunded to
them.
   D.   Amendments And Preparation Of Application: The chief financial officer,
or designee, shall prepare an application for water and sewer service and may
amend, alter or add to said application at any time as need may require, by and
with the consent and approval of the city council.
   E.   Reinitiation Of Service After Write Off Of Previous Charges: Any person
who has caused the city to write off charges for water and sewer charges shall
be required to reapply as provided above in order to continue to use the water
and sewer utilities. The application shall be made as provided above. The
person reapplying for service shall also pay a deposit as follows:
 
Single residential unit 3 times the previous average monthly charges
Multihousing units      3 times the previous average monthly charges
Business accounts       3 times the previous average monthly charges
 
The deposit shall be made in the form of secured funds only. “Secure funds” are
defined as cashier or counter check or money order. The deposit shall be used
as set forth in subsection B of this section. Subsection C of this section
shall not apply to the deposits provided in this section. The city council may
from time to time by resolution change the amount of the deposits required
hereunder. If there is any conflict between the provisions of this subsection E
and subsection B of this section, the provisions of this subsection E shall
apply. (Ord. 02-10, 5-28-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-11-2005; Ord. 2006-15, 10-
24-2006; Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. As set forth in UCA title 61, ch. 2f, as amended
9-1-6: WATER SERVICE RATES:
The schedule of rates for water services contained in the city's fee schedule
shall be charged and collected and such rates are hereby established and
declared to be uniform with respect to the class of services furnished. All
water accounts will be billed the monthly base fee regardless of any
consumption of water.
   A.   Residential: All residential water connections will be assessed a
monthly base fee, as well as a consumption fee for every one thousand (1,000)
gallons consumed based on the usage for each billing period.
   B.   Multiple Dwelling Units, Apartment Houses And Mobile Home Parks:
Multiple dwelling units, apartment houses and mobile home parks will be
assessed a monthly fee per unit. Multiple dwelling units, apartment houses and
mobile home parks will be allotted seven thousand (7,000) gallons per unit per
billing period and then commercial rates will apply to usage.
   C.   Commercial/Industrial/Institutional/Dormitory Water Rates: Commercial/
industrial/institutional/dormitory accounts will be assessed a monthly minimum
base fee according to their meter size. A consumption fee will also be charged
for every one thousand (1,000) gallons consumed based on the usage for each
billing period.
      1.   Sprinkling Lawns, Unmetered: All unmetered water connections will be
assessed a monthly fee based on the current rate for a five-eighths inch (5/8")
meter from the commercial rate schedule in the city's fee schedule. Unmetered
sprinkling lawn accounts will be billed monthly for a five (5) month period
each year, from May 1 up to and including September 30.
      2.   Fire Protection Standby Charge: A sprinkling system standby charge
per diameter inch of main pipe supply water to sprinkling system shall be
assessed a monthly fee.
      3.   More Than One User: Whenever more than one commercial or industrial
user is serviced by the same water meter, there shall be charged a minimum
monthly fee based on the size of meter as identified in the rate table for
commercial/industrial/institutional/dormitory service in the city's fee
schedule. All gallonage will be assessed at the consumption fee from the same
table and shall be divided equally between the users connected to the meter,
unless the users present to the city a written agreement that the fees shall be
charged on a different basis other than equally.
      4.   Unmetered Services: All commercial and industrial users not having
metered water service shall be charged for water services based upon the number
of connections and the number of employees, as follows:
         a.   Each connection, minimum per month, with eight (8) or fewer
employees, charged at the one inch (1.00") meter size.
         b.   Each connection with nine (9) or more employees, charged at the
two inch (2.00") meter size. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-1-7: SEWER SERVICE RATES:
The schedule of rates for sanitary sewer services contained in the city's fee
schedule shall be charged and collected and such rates are hereby established
and declared to be uniform with respect to the class of services furnished. All
sewer accounts will be billed the base fee monthly.
   A.   Residential/Multi-Unit: All single-family residential and multi-unit
connections will have a basic monthly fee assessed for sanitary sewer service.
   B.   Commercial/Industrial/Institutional/Dormitory:
      1.   Metered: All commercial and industrial establishments having metered
water service shall be charged for sewer service on the basis of metered water.
For the billing periods beginning May 1 through and including the November 1
bill of each year, the sewer charges will be billed on a five (5) month winter
averaging. The five (5) month period will consist of water consumption from the
December 1 through April 1 bills.
      2.   More Than One User: Whenever more than one commercial or industrial
user is serviced by the same water meter, there shall be charged a minimum
monthly sewer fee based on the commercial base fee as set forth in the city's
fee schedule for each user connected to the water meter. All gallonage for the
multiconnection shall be charged at the rate indicated in the city's fee
schedule and shall be divided equally between the users connected to the meter
unless the users present to the city a written agreement that the fees shall be
charged on a different basis other than equally. The rate for excess usage
shall change every January 1 according to the commercial rate schedule in the
city's fee schedule.
      3.   Unmetered Users: All commercial and industrial users not having
metered water service shall be charged for sewer services on the basis of the
number of connections and the number of employees.
      4.   Special Treatment: Where the sewage discharged by any commercial or
industrial establishment into the city sanitary sewer system is of such
character as to require special treatment or to constitute an unusual and
abnormal burden on the disposal facilities, such additional charges shall be
assessed and shall be paid therefor by the user as may be determined by the
city council to be fair and equitable.
   C.   Amendments: The schedule of rates contained in the consolidated fee
schedule may and shall be amended and revised from time to time when, in the
opinion of the city council, such revisions are necessary to yield a revenue
adequate to cover the operational or capital improvement costs of the system
and/or for the retirement of the city water and sewer revenue bonds and the
payment of interest thereon. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-1-8: SPECIAL FEES AND DISCOUNTS:
   A.   Charges During Absence 1 :
      1.   Turning water off during absence:
         a.   The fee required by the city's fee schedule shall be paid to
disconnect water service. This fee includes the reconnect service.
         b.   The minimum monthly water, sewer and stormwater rates will be
assessed monthly.
      2.   Water left on and pay minimum fees during absence:
         a.   No service fee will apply.
         b.   The minimum monthly water, sewer and stormwater rates will be
assessed monthly. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
   B.   Clearfield City Utility Assistance Program: The city hereby establishes
a ten percent (10%) discount for qualified households on their Clearfield City
utility bills.
      1.   To qualify, an individual must present their notification of
acceptance from one of two (2) programs, the Utah telephone assistance program
(UTAP) or the home energy assistance target (HEAT).
      2.   The acceptance letter must be in the same name as the name of the
responsible party for the utility account.
      3.   The acceptance letter cannot be over sixty (60) days old.
      4.   Households qualifying for this assistance program must reapply on an
annual basis. Households should do so within sixty (60) days of being accepted
into one of the two (2) programs.
   C.   Reciprocation: The city council may authorize water rates to residents
of other incorporated municipalities at the same rate charged within the city,
provided said municipality agrees to reciprocate under similar circumstances.
   D.   Qualified Military Reserve Rate: The following water, sewer and garbage
rate classification is hereby established for United States military reserve
personnel on active duty as follows:
      1.   To qualify, an individual must present his or her activation orders
placing them on active duty, provide active duty, station, dates and the
location as to where they will be stationed for active duty.
      2.   After the person has qualified, Clearfield City shall waive all
administrative charges only for water, sewer and garbage each month during
active duty.
      3.   A "qualified individual" is a person who is a head of household
domiciled within Clearfield City who has been called to active duty with a
United States military reserve unit.
      4.   The spouse of a qualified person may apply for the foregoing water,
sewer and garbage rates.
      5.   The water, sewer and garbage rate classification established by this
subsection D may be referred to as the "qualified military reserve rate". (Ord.
2007-07, 1-23-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-2-4C of this code.
9-1-9: BILLING AND PAYMENT PROCEDURES; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Procedure Established: The city shall, through its properly designated
employees, promptly bill all persons for all utility services including the
water system, sewer system, stormwater system and solid waste collection
system. The form of the statement may show the separate charges due for water
supplied, sewer services furnished, stormwater services and solid waste
collection; provided, however, that all users of such utilities shall each pay
monthly the sum total of all utility charges and that such charges may not be
paid separately. Water services shall be disconnected to any consumer who shall
become delinquent in the payment of utility charges. A utility account is
delinquent if the sum total of all utility services (i.e., water, sewer, solid
waste collection and stormwater) is not paid in full by the last business day
of the month in which the utility statement is prepared. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-
2008)
   B.   Delinquent Accounts: If any person receiving water supplied from the
water system neglects, fails or refuses to pay the sum of the utility statement
and the account becomes delinquent as defined in subsection A of this section,
the late fee required by the city’s consolidated fee schedule will be assessed
on the first business day of the new month. In the event the account remains
delinquent, the chief financial officer, or designee shall cause the water to
be turned off from the premises of such delinquent account. All delinquent
utility charges shall be paid up to the end of the term as assessed prior to
reinstatement of water service. In the event water is turned off for nonpayment
of utility charges as herein provided, in addition to all delinquent amounts
and the late fee enumerated above, the disconnect/reconnect fee specified by
the city’s consolidated fee schedule will be assessed and must be paid before
the water is turned on again. Furthermore, users who have allowed an account to
become delinquent shall be required to make a deposit and file a new
application as provided in this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon
request of the registered account holder, the city manager or his/her designee
has the discretion to waive the fees, reapplication and deposit enumerated
above one time during the previous three (3) year period. (Ord. 2010-17, 10-12-
2010, eff. 11-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-20, 6-28-2022)
9-1-10: RULES AND REGULATIONS; GENERALLY:
   A.   Two Users On Same Connection: Where two (2) or more families or
premises are supplied from the same water service pipe, the failure on the part
of either of said parties to comply with these regulations shall warrant the
city to withhold a supply of water through said service pipe until a separate
service pipe with stopcock and key box is put in for each user of water and
under a separate application.
   B.   Taker Only To Use Water: It shall be unlawful for any water user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized persons to use or
obtain water regularly from his premises or water fixtures, either outside or
inside his building.
   C.   Pipes Kept In Good Repair: All water users shall keep their service
pipe and connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from
frost at their own expense, but no person, except under the direction of the
water department, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of
laying, removing or repairing any service pipe.
   D.   Extensions Or Attachments; Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for
any person to make any extension of any pipe or water fixture attached to the
waterworks system for any purpose whatever without first obtaining a permit
from the city. Within twenty four (24) hours after the completion of any
plumbing work connected with the water system, the same must be reported to the
city.
   E.   Waste Of Water: It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste water
or to allow it to be wasted by imperfect stop taps, valves, leaky joints or
pipes, or to allow tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow, or wastefully
to run water from hydrants, faucets or stops or through basins, water closets,
urinals, sinks or other apparatus, or to use the water in violation of the
rules and regulations for controlling the water supply.
   F.   Water Shortage: The city council may, by resolution, regulate, restrict
or limit the use of water during water shortage periods and shall have the
power to take all necessary means and make any necessary regulations as
circumstances may require to protect the users of the city water. (Ord. 95-2,
3-14-1995)
   G.   Access By City: The city, by its agents, shall at all ordinary hours
have free access to places supplied with water from the water system for the
purpose of examining the apparatus to ascertain the amount of water used and
the manner of its use. Access by the city to any water meter on public or
private property shall not be obstructed or interfered with by trees, shrubs,
barriers, or hindrance of any kind. If the reading of any water meter is
obstructed or interfered with, the city shall cause the property owner to be
given a written notice to remove the obstruction or interference. If the
obstruction or interference is not removed within fifteen (15) days after
service of the notice, the city may, at its option, remove the obstruction or
interference without any liability whatsoever to the city from the property
owner and may also charge the property owner with the reasonable cost of such
removal.
   H.   Motors And Other Restrictions: No water shall be supplied from the
pipes of the city water system for the purpose of driving any motor, siphon,
turbine or other wheels, or any hydraulic engines, or elevators, or for driving
or propelling machinery of any kind whatsoever, nor shall any license be
granted or issued for any such purpose, except by special permission of the
city council. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
   I.   Cleanouts: Any and all sewer connection lines shall have a cleanout
every one hundred feet (100') and at every ninety degree (90°) bend therein.
(Ord. 95-2, 3-14-1995; amd. 2000 Code)
9-1-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Water System:
      1.   Administrative Violations:
         a.   Turn On Water Without Authority: It shall be unlawful for any
person, after the water has been turned off from his premises for either
nonpayment of water or sewer charges as provided for in this chapter or for a
violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to the city water and sewer
systems, to turn on or allow the water to be turned on or used without
authority.
         b.   Destruction Or Interference: It shall be unlawful for any person
to destroy, deface, injure or interfere with the operation of any part, pipe,
fixture, appliance or appurtenance of the city water system.
         c.   Water Meter Lids: It shall be unlawful to open or remove without
permission water meter lids.
         d.   Administrative Fine: Violation of this subsection A1 will be an
administrative violation that will attach to the real property upon which the
violation occurs and shall subject the owner or tenant of the real property or
both of them to an administrative fine only of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Said fines
will be in addition to any past due amounts for water or sewer services. A
violation of this section may be proved by a preponderance of evidence.
      2.   Criminal Violations:
         a.   Deleterious Substances Introduced: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, cause to be placed or to introduce into the city water system
or any source of water supplying said system any matter, substance, chemical or
compound poisonous to human life, deleterious and harmful to human health.
(Ord. 03-07, 4-22-2003)
   B.   Sewer System:
      1.   Manhole Covers: It shall be unlawful for any person to open any
sewer manhole without permission from the city.
      2.   Destruction Or Interference: It shall be unlawful for any person to
destroy, deface, injure or interfere with the operation of any part, pipe,
fixture, appliance or appurtenance of the city sewer system.
      3.   Injurious Substances: It shall be unlawful for any person to put
into or cause to be put into or drained into the city sewer system through an
authorized connection or otherwise, any pulp, mash, trash, inflammable gas,
gasoline, oil, petroleum byproducts, any calcium carbide or residue therefrom,
any liquid or other material which will evolve in inflammable gas when in
contact with water, sewage or fire, or any other matter which by chemical
reaction shall injure said sewer or any part thereof or the operation thereof,
or which may become dangerous to health, life or property.
   C.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the city shall determine that any of
these provisions are being violated, notice shall be served upon the violator
immediately to desist from the operation and use creating the violation.
Failure to comply with such notice shall render the user immediately liable to
a discontinuance of his or its privilege to use said sewer system. (Ord. 95-2,
3-14-1995)
9-1-12: PRIVATE SYSTEMS; DISCONTINUANCE:
   A.   Within Three Hundred Feet Of City System: It shall be unlawful for the
owner or his agent, or any other person having charge of or occupying any
property located upon any street, alley, court, passageway or area in the city
and within three hundred feet (300') of the sewer system to maintain or use or
cause or permit to exist any privy vault, septic tank or cesspool on such
property. The department of public works shall cause notice to be served upon
the owner, agent or occupant of such premises to disconnect all plumbing from
any cesspool or septic tank and to fill all cesspools and privy vaults with
fresh earth and to remove all seats from privies and to connect all plumbing
therein with the sewer system.
   B.   Time Limit For Connection: It shall be unlawful for the plumbing on any
premises within the area above described to remain unconnected to the sewer
system for more than sixty (60) days after such sewer system is ready to
receive connections therewith. In the event that notice is served upon persons
violating the requirements of this section and they fail or refuse to comply
with the requirements of the same within thirty (30) days, they shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and it shall be the duty of the city council to proceed
forthwith with condemnation proceedings declaring the subject matter of such
violation to be a nuisance; and also to proceed forthwith with the filing of a
complaint for the criminal violation of this section. (Ord. 95-2, 3-14-1995;
amd. 2000 Code)
9-1-13: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The city shall not be liable for any damage to a water meter from a turnoff by
the city, or by reason of stoppage or interruption of its water supply caused
by fires, scarcity of water, accidents to works or mains, alterations,
additions, repairs or from any other avoidable cause. (Ord. 95-2, 3-14-1995;
amd. 2000 Code)
9-1-14: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided, any person who shall violate any of the
provisions in this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 95-2, 3-14-1995; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: General Purposes
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Responsibilities
9-2-4: Requirements
9-2-5: Discontinuance Of Service
9-2-1: GENERAL PURPOSES:
The purposes of this chapter are as follows:
   A.   Protection Of Water Supply: To protect the safe drinking water supply
of the City from the possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring
compliance with State and local Plumbing Codes, health regulations, OSHA and
other applicable industry standards for water system safety within the
consumer's internal distribution system or private water systems. Compliance
with these minimum Safety Codes will be considered reasonable vigilance for
prevention of contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the public
drinking water systems; and
   B.   Elimination Or Control Of Cross-Connections: To promote reasonable
elimination or control of cross-connections in the plumbing fixtures and
industrial piping system of the consumer, as required by State and local
Plumbing Codes, health regulations, OSHA and other applicable industry
standards to assure water system safety; and
   C.   Administration Of Backflow Prevention: To provide for the
administration of a continuing program of backflow prevention which will
systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or pollution of all
drinking water systems. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-13-2018)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings specified,
unless a different meaning is clearly evident from the context.
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: Accepted by the State of Utah Department of
Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water (DEQ-DDW) as meeting an
applicable specification or as suitable for the proposed use as described in
section V of the Cross Connection Control Program of Utah.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than Clearfield City's public water supply will be considered as an auxiliary
water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor's
public potable water supply or any natural source such as a well, spring,
river, stream, harbor, etc., or "used waters" or "industrial fluids". These
waters may be contaminated or polluted or they may be objectionable and
constitute an unacceptable water source over which Clearfield City does not
have authority for sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or potential contaminants under pressure into
the distribution pipes of the potable water supply system from any sources
other than the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source other
than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the potable
water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly designed to prevent backflow.
Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained in the Cross-
Connection Control Program of Utah.
CERTIFIED TESTER/TECHNICIAN: Any person certified by the State of Utah,
Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water to test
backflow assemblies.
CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by non-
potable water or any other substance not intended to be introduced into the
public drinking water system.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
which may allow non-potable water or potential contaminants to come in contact
with potable water in the distribution system.
CROSS-CONNECTION PROTECTION: A. Containment: The installation and proper
testing and maintenance of an approved backflow assembly or device at the point
of service.
   B.   Isolation: The installation and proper testing and maintenance of an
approved backflow assembly or device at the point of any cross connection or
potential cross connection in the customer's system.
WATER SUPERINTENDENT: The person designated to be in charge of the Water
Division of Clearfield City Public Works Department, is vested with the
authority and responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross-
connection control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-13-2018)
9-2-3: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Clearfield City:
      1.   The City or water utility shall be responsible for the protection of
the drinking water distribution system from foreseeable conditions leading to
the possible contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to
backflow into the drinking water supply.
      2.   Hazard assessment surveys and inspections of the consumer's water
distribution system shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by individuals
deemed qualified by and representing the City or water utility. Survey records
shall indicate compliance with the aforementioned health and safety standards.
All such records will be maintained by the Public Works Department.
      3.   The City or water utility shall notify in writing all consumers of
the need for the periodic system survey to ensure compliance with existing
applicable minimum health and safety standards.
      4.   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly or device
required at the service entrance shall be determined from the results of the
system hazard assessment survey.
      5.   The City or water utility shall maintain records of all operational
tests of backflow prevention assemblies, hazard assessments, enforcement
actions, training, and other information relating to the operation of the
backflow/cross connection control program.
   B.   Consumer:
      1.   The customer or consumer shall comply with this chapter as a term
and condition of service.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the customer or consumer to
purchase, install, test and maintain any backflow prevention device or assembly
required to comply with this chapter.
   C.   City Inspectors:
      1.   The inspector's responsibility is to enforce the applicable sections
of the State's adopted Plumbing Code and its adopted amendments beginning at
the point of service (downstream of consumer side of the meter) and throughout
the developed length of the consumer's water system.
      2.   The City inspectors will review all plans to ensure that unprotected
cross-connections are not part of the consumer's water system. If a cross-
connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the installation of an
approved backflow prevention assembly or device.
      3.   Water vacating the drinking water supply must do so by an approved
and properly installed and maintained air gap or backflow prevention assembly
or device.
   D.   Certified Tester/Technician Or Repair Person:
      1.   Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test,
repair or maintain backflow prevention assemblies, the certified backflow
technicians, surveyors or repair persons will have the following
responsibilities:
         a.   Ensuring approved testing equipment and procedures are used for
testing and repairing backflow prevention assemblies.
         b.   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the consumer and
Clearfield City Public Works.
         c.   All test reports shall include a description of the assembly
tested (including type, size, model and serial numbers), the physical address,
a description of the location of the assembly, contact information for the
tester and owner of the assembly, the results of the test and a list of
materials or replacement parts used.
         d.   Ensuring replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired.
         e.   Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics
of the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance.
         f.   A certified technician shall perform all tests of the mechanical
devices or assemblies and be responsible for accuracy of all tests and reports.
         g.   Ensuring the license is current, and that testing equipment being
used is acceptable to the State and is in proper operating condition.
         h.   Be equipped with and be certified or licensed to use, all
necessary tools, gauges and other equipment to properly test and maintain
backflow prevention assemblies.
      2.   All tests of assemblies must be conducted by a person certified by
the State Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water. All
repairs must be made by an appropriately licensed person. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-13-
2018)
9-2-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Protection Of Water Supply: No water service connection to any premises
shall be installed or maintained by Clearfield City's water system unless the
water supply is protected as required by State laws, regulations, codes and
this chapter. Water service shall be discontinued by the City after a written
notification of violation has been issued and a ten (10) calendar day period
has been given for compliance, if:
      1.   A backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter for control
of backflow and cross-connections is not installed, tested and maintained; or
      2.   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed
or bypassed; or
      3.   If an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises; or
      4.   If the periodic system survey has not been allowed as requested by a
City official.
Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
Nothing in this subsection A shall be interpreted to limit the authority of the
City to discontinue service as outlined in section
9-2-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Inspection Of Customer's System: The customer's system shall be open
for inspection at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the
City to determine whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary
hazards, including violation of this chapter exist and to audit the results of
the required survey (subsection 9-2-3A2 of this chapter).
   C.   Installation Of Approved Prevention Assembly: Whenever the City deems a
service connection's water usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the water
supply, an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on the
service line of the identified consumer's water system, at or near the property
line, or immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases,
before the first branch line leading off the service line.
   D.   Type Of Protective Assembly: The type of protective assembly required
under subsection C of this section, shall depend upon the degree of hazard
which exists at the point of cross-connection (whether direct or indirect),
applicable to local and State requirements resulting from the required survey.
   E.   Previously-Approved Assemblies: All presently-installed backflow
prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this section but
were approved assemblies for the purposes described herein at the time of
installation and which have been properly maintained shall, except for the
inspection and maintenance requirements under subsection F of this section, be
excluded from the requirements of these rules so long as the City is assured
that they will satisfactorily protect the City water system. Whenever the
existing assembly is moved from the present location or requires more than
minimum maintenance, or when the City finds that the operation or maintenance
of this assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by
an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the local and State
requirements.
   F.   Testing And Maintenance Requirements: It shall be the responsibility of
the consumer at the premises where backflow prevention assemblies are installed
to have certified operational tests made annually at the consumer's expense. In
those instances where the Water Superintendent deems the hazard to be great,
the City may require certified operational tests at a more frequent interval.
It shall be the duty of the Water Superintendent to see that these tests are
made according to the standards set forth by the State of Utah, Department of
Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water.
   G.   Testing Backflow Prevention Assemblies: All backflow prevention
assemblies shall be tested within ten (10) working days of initial
installation, replacement or repairs.
   H.   Safety Hazards: No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed so
as to create a safety hazard. Example: installed over any electrical panel,
steam pipes, boilers, pits or above ceiling level. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-13-2018)
9-2-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
If a violation of this chapter exists or if there has not been any corrective
action taken by the consumer within ten (10) days of the written notification
of deficiencies noted within the survey, then the City shall deny or
immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a physical break
in the service line until the customer has corrected the conditions in
conformance with the State and City Statutes relating to plumbing, safe
drinking water supplies and the regulations adopted, and the customer will be
assessed a reconnection fee to restore service thereto. Water service may be
discontinued immediately if, as determined by the Water Superintendent, or
designee, that an incident has or may occur that compromises the public health
and safety of others or the public water supply based on a real contamination
or a risk of contamination to the public water supply. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-13-
2018)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER UTILITY
SECTION:
9-3-1: Findings
9-3-2: Purpose
9-3-3: Definitions
9-3-4: Stormwater Utility Established
9-3-5: Stormwater Utility Fee
9-3-6: Billing
9-3-7: Obstruction
9-3-8: Dumping
9-3-9: Discharge
9-3-10: Prohibited Storage
9-3-11: Stormwater Connection Permits
9-3-12: Best Management Practices
9-3-13: Easements
9-3-14: Authority To Inspect
9-3-15: Requirement To Monitor And Analyze
9-3-16: Notice Of Violation
9-3-17: Damage To Stormwater System
9-3-18: Manhole Covers
9-3-19: Violation And Penalty
9-3-20: Compliance With Federal And State Law
9-3-1: FINDINGS:
The city council makes the following findings regarding stormwater runoff and
the city's stormwater system:
   A.   The city's existing stormwater system consists of a network of manmade
and natural facilities, structures and conduits, including ground water and
aquifers, that collect and route stormwater runoff.
   B.   The city's existing stormwater system does not adequately handle the
stormwater runoff generated in the city.
   C.   The city's anticipated growth will place increased demands on the
already inadequate stormwater system. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-2000; amd. Ord. 2008-
16, 12-9-2008)
   D.   Uncontrolled or inadequately controlled stormwater runoff causes
erosion and property damage.
   E.   Uncontrolled or inadequately controlled stormwater runoff hinders the
city's ability to provide emergency services to its residents.
   F.   Uncontrolled or inadequately controlled stormwater runoff impedes the
regular flow of traffic in the city.
   G.   Uncontrolled or inadequately controlled stormwater runoff poses health
hazards to the citizens of the community.
   H.   Stormwater runoff carries concentrations of oil, grease, nutrients,
chemicals, heavy metals, toxic materials and other undesirable materials that
may jeopardize the integrity of ground waters and receiving waters, including
the city's culinary water supply. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-2000)
   I.   All developed properties in the city contribute to the need for the
stormwater system by converting natural ground cover into impervious surfaces.
   J.   All developed properties in the city make use of or benefit from the
city's operation and maintenance of the stormwater system. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-
2000; amd. Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
   K.   The environmental protection agency (EPA) through its clean water act
is developing additional stormwater permitting requirements that will apply to
cities of Clearfield's size regulating the stormwater quality discharged.
   L.   Absent effective maintenance, operation, regulation and control,
existing stormwater drainage conditions in the city constitute a potential
hazard to the health, safety and general welfare of the city, its residents,
and its businesses. (Ord. 00-16, 8-16-2000)
   M.   A stormwater utility is the most equitable and efficient method of
managing stormwater in the city and ensuring that each property in the city
pays its fair share of the amount that the property contributes to, benefits
from, and otherwise uses the stormwater system. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-2000; amd.
Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
city and its inhabitants by improving the city's stormwater system, managing
and controlling stormwater runoff, protecting property, preventing polluted
waters from entering the city's water supply and other receiving waters, and
establishing a viable and fair method of financing the construction, operation
and maintenance of a stormwater system. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-2000; amd. Ord. 2008-
16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall be
defined as follows:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): A wide range of management procedures,
schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and
other management practices which have been demonstrated to effectively control
the quality and/or quantity of stormwater runoff and which are compatible with
the planned land use. BMPs also include treatment requirements operating
procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or
water disposal, or drainage from raw material storage. A list of sample BMPs
and their effectiveness ratings can be found in the Clearfield City stormwater
management plan approved April 2003, a copy of which is available at the office
of the city recorder.
CATCH BASIN: A basin combined with a storm drain inlet to trap solids.
DEBRIS: Any dirt, rock, sand, tree, or other rubbish, litter, etc.
DETENTION BASIN: A depression, designed with an inlet and outlet that regulates
water flow and allows debris to settle out, that is capable of detaining
stormwater runoff until it can be released without causing damage downstream.
DEVELOPED PARCEL: Any parcel that has been altered from its natural condition
by grading, filling, or the construction of improvements or other impervious
surfaces.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, site preparation, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, and construction of buildings or other structures.
DIRECTOR: The public works director of Clearfield City or the duly appointed
deputy, agent, or representative.
DISTURB: To alter the physical condition, natural terrain or vegetation of land
by clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating, filling, building or other
construction activity.
DRAIN INLET: A point of entry into a sump, detention basin, or storm drain
system.
EQUIVALENT SERVICE UNIT (ESU): The average amount of impervious surface
expressed in square feet, on developed single-family residential parcels in
Clearfield.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial presence or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed. Hazardous material includes, but is not
limited to, any hazardous substance designated under 40 CFR part 116 pursuant
to section 311 of the clean water act.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Either of the following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system. Examples include,
but are not limited to, any conveyances which allow nonstormwater discharge
such as sewage, process wastewater, or wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains or
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection has been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by a government agency; or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected to or discharging to the storm drain
system, which has not been: 1) documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records
submitted to the city, and 2) approved in writing by the city.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any nonstormwater discharge to the stormwater system.
Illicit discharges include both direct connections (e.g., wastewater piping
either mistakenly or deliberately connected to the stormwater system) and
indirect connections (e.g., infiltration into the stormwater system or spills
collected by drain inlets).
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surface, other than the natural surface, that
prevents or retards the absorption of water into the soil, or that causes water
to run off the surface in greater quantities or at a greater rate of flow than
the natural surface.
LAND DEVELOPMENT: Any development of a parcel, lot, subdivision plat or site
plan. If there is more than one lot in the subdivision plat or site plan, all
lots in the subdivision plat or site plan shall jointly be considered to be
part of the land development.
NONSTORMWATER RUNOFF: Any runoff other than stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, company or body
politic, including any agency of the state of Utah and the United States
government.
POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewer sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, industrial, municipal and agricultural waste, paints,
varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid
and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other
discarded or abandoned objects, articles, and accumulations, that may cause or
contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers;
hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens;
dissolved and particulate metals; animal waste; waste and residues that result
from constructing a building or structure (including, but not limited to,
sediments, slurries, and concrete resinates); and noxious or offensive matter
of any kind.
REDEVELOPMENT: Alterations of a property that change the footprint of a site or
building in such a way that disturbs one acre of land or more.
STORM DRAIN: A closed conduit for conducting stormwater that has been collected
by inlets or collected by other means.
STORMWATER: Any flow that occurs during or following any form of natural
precipitation. Stormwater includes only the portion of such flow that is
composed of precipitation.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: Water that is generated by stormwater flows overland.
STORMWATER SYSTEM: The system of conveyances (including sidewalk, roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, detention basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, manmade channels, sumps, storm drains, and ground water)
owned and operated by the city, which is designed and used for collecting or
conveying stormwater. The stormwater system is also referred to as a municipal
separate stormwater system "MS4".
SUMP: A formalized structure underground surrounded by drain rock, which acts
as a detention basin to allow the slow release of water into the surrounding
subsoil. Sumps usually receive stormwater runoff from paved areas such as
streets, parking lots, building roofs, etc. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-4: STORMWATER UTILITY ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Creation: The city council hereby creates and establishes a stormwater
utility as part of the city's overall sewer system. The stormwater utility
shall plan, design, construct, maintain, administer and operate the city's
stormwater system.
   B.   Enterprise Fund: The city council hereby establishes a stormwater
utility enterprise fund to handle all income, expenses and other financial
transactions related to the stormwater utility. All stormwater utility service
charges shall be deposited in the enterprise fund. Money in the stormwater
utility enterprise fund shall not be commingled with or transferred to other
city funds without the consent of the city council. The stormwater utility may
pay other city funds for services and expenses directly attributable to the
stormwater utility. The enterprise fund shall be operated according to state
law and city policy.
   C.   Facilities And Assets: The stormwater utility shall operate
independently of city operations funded by the general fund. The stormwater
utility shall have the same relationship to the city as other city utilities
such as the water utility and the sanitary sewer (wastewater) utility. Upon
creation of the utility, all of the city's stormwater facilities and assets
(other than streets and other facilities and assets designated by the city
manager) shall be transferred to the stormwater utility in consideration for
the stormwater utility's agreement to take primary responsibility for planning,
designing, constructing, maintaining, administering and operating the city's
stormwater system.
   D.   Administration: The stormwater utility shall be administered by the
city's public works department. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-2000; amd. Ord. 2008-16, 12-
9-2008)
9-3-5: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:
   A.   Imposed: Each parcel of real property in the city which uses the city's
stormwater system to dispose of irrigation or storm water shall be charged a
stormwater utility fee.
   B.   ESU: The fee shall be based on the number of equivalent service units
(ESUs) contained in the parcel. The city council finds that the ESU is the most
accurate measurement for determining the amount that each parcel contributes
to, benefits from, and otherwise uses the stormwater utility. The city council
finds and establishes that one ESU equals two thousand seven hundred (2,700)
square feet of impervious surface area.
   C.   Calculation: The city council finds that each single- family
residential parcel contributes approximately the same amount of stormwater
runoff; therefore, each developed single-family residential parcel shall pay a
base rate of one ESU. All nonsingle-family residential parcels shall pay a
multiple of this base rate, expressed in ESUs according to the measured
impervious area on the parcel.
   D.   Charge Per ESU: The amount charged for each ESU shall be in accordance
with the city's consolidated fee schedule and may be amended by ordinance of
the city council. Commercial and industrial parcels may receive a reduction for
having on site mitigation.
   E.   Credit For On Site Mitigation: Nonresidential parcels with on site
stormwater detention, retention or mitigation management facilities will be
eligible for a service charge credit as follows:
      1.   Fifty percent (50%) reduction for a parcel that has an on site
detention basin constructed to city standards with a maximum release from the
basin of 0.20 cfs/ac within a landscaped area on site and having installed an
approved sand and oil interceptor system before discharging into the city's
storm drain system.
      2.   Thirty percent (30%) reduction for a parcel that has an on site
detention basin constructed to city standards with a maximum release from the
basin of 0.20 cfs/ac within a landscaped area or a retention basin within a
landscaped area on site.
      3.   Twenty percent (20%) reduction for a parcel that has an on site
detention basin constructed to city standards of a maximum release of 0.20 cfs/
ac within an impervious surface area on the site or within a piping system
designed for detention on site.
   F.   Exemptions And Credits: The city council may establish exemptions and
credits to the stormwater utility fee by resolution.
   G.   Policies: The public works department may adopt policies, consistent
with this chapter and any resolutions passed by the city council, to assist in
the application, administration and interpretation of this chapter and any
resolutions related to the stormwater utility.
   H.   Appeals: Any person or entity that believes that this chapter, or any
stormwater utility rate ordinance, was interpreted or applied erroneously may
appeal to the city council at a regularly scheduled council meeting. The appeal
shall be in writing, shall state any facts supporting the appeal, and shall be
made within ten (10) days of the decision, action, or bill being appealed. The
city council's decision shall be final and binding on all parties. (Ord. 2008-
16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-6: BILLING:
The city council finds that the city's stormwater system, sanitary sewer
system, culinary water system, and solid waste collection system are
interrelated services that are part of a unified city plan to provide for the
health, safety and welfare of the city and its residents in an environmentally
responsible manner. Therefore, the stormwater utility fee shall be included on
the city's regular monthly utility bill for any given property. If there is no
regular utility bill for the property, the stormwater utility fee shall be
charged to the owner of the property. The fee shall be deemed a civil debt owed
to the city by the person or entity paying for the city utility services
provided to the property. All properties shall be charged the fee, regardless
of whether or not the owner or occupant of the property requests the stormwater
utility service. Failure to pay any portion of the utility bill may result in
termination of water service. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-2000; amd. Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-
2008)
9-3-7: OBSTRUCTION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Obstruct the flow of water in the stormwater system.
      2.   Contribute to the obstruction of the flow of water in the stormwater
system.
      3.   Cover or obstruct any drain inlet.
   B.   The following obstructions are exempt from the prohibitions of this
section:
      1.   Street and/or stormwater improvement projects authorized by the
city.
      2.   Flood control and prevention activities performed by the city.
      3.   Obstructions approved by the city as part of a site's stormwater
drainage plan.
      4.   Obstructions occurring during cleanup periods established by the
city, provided that the materials are placed according to city directions and
do not obstruct drain inlets. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-8: DUMPING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to dump, or allow to be dumped, into any
sump, detention basin, storm drain, curb and gutter, drain inlet, or other
storm drainage structure that conveys stormwater and/or nonstormwater, any type
of debris, petroleum product, chemical, paint, pesticide, herbicide, heavy
metal, acid or base product, solid or liquid waste product, hazardous waste
product, and/or human or animal waste.
   B.   The restrictions set forth in subsection A of this section shall not
apply to the normal runoff of nonstormwater related to domestic home uses; for
example lawn water, washing cars, etc. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-2000)
9-3-9: DISCHARGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow an illicit discharge to
the stormwater system.
   B.   The following discharges to the stormwater system are exempt from the
prohibitions of this section:
      1.   Discharges regulated under a valid national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) storm discharge permit, provided that the discharge
complies with the terms of the permit.
      2.   Discharges from water line flushing performed by the city.
      3.   Discharges from sprinkled landscape irrigation or sprinkled lawn
watering.
      4.   Discharges from individual residential car washing, provided that a
biodegradable detergent is used.
      5.   Discharges from natural habitat flows.
      6.   Discharges from natural ground water flows.
      7.   Discharges from air conditioning condensation.
      8.   Discharges from firefighting or emergency management activities.
      9.   Discharges from swimming pools constructed prior to January 1, 2001.
      10.   Discharges from foundation drains, footing drains or crawl space or
basement pumps if the discharges have been approved in writing by the city.
      11.   Discharges allowed by a Clearfield City stormwater connection
permit. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-10: PROHIBITED STORAGE:
It is unlawful for any person to maintain, store, keep, deposit or leave any
pollutant or hazardous material, or any item containing a pollutant or
hazardous material, in a manner that is likely to result in the discharge of
the pollutant or hazardous material to the stormwater system. (Ord. 2008-16,
12-9-2008)
9-3-11: STORMWATER CONNECTION PERMITS:
   A.   Permits Required: No person shall connect to the city's stormwater
system, either directly or indirectly, without first obtaining a stormwater
connection permit from the city.
   B.   When Permit Required: Any person beginning new construction
(development of an undeveloped parcel) or "redevelopment" (as defined in this
chapter) in the city shall obtain a stormwater connection permit before
commencing construction.
   C.   Application: The applicant for a stormwater connection permit shall
submit the following to the city:
      1.   Application Form: A completed application form. Application forms
will be available at the city.
      2.   BMP Plan: A plan incorporating stormwater BMPs that meet the
requirements of section
9-3-12 of this chapter.
      3.   Maintenance Plan: A plan outlining how the applicant will maintain
the stormwater improvements listed in the application.
      4.   Fee: A fee in an amount set by ordinance of the city council.
   D.   Application: The application shall be submitted to the city as part of
the building permit or subdivision approval process.
   E.   Review: The stormwater permit application shall be reviewed by the city
public works director, city engineer or building inspector for commercial site
plans, subdivision plans, or private residences, respectively. The stormwater
permit application shall be approved, approved with conditions, or denied.
Either the permit applicant or the city may appeal the decision of the city
public works director, city engineer or building inspector to the city council.
   F.   Factors: When deciding whether to approve, conditionally approve, or
deny a stormwater connection permit application, the following factors shall be
considered:
      1.   Whether the application complies with applicable city ordinances and
policies.
      2.   Whether the application complies with the Clearfield City storm
drainage master plan.
      3.   Whether the proposed connection incorporates effective best
management practices.
      4.   Whether the proposed connection introduces pollutants into the storm
drain system.
      5.   Whether the proposed connection creates a safety hazard.
      6.   Whether the proposed connection affects the integrity of the
stormwater system infrastructure.
      7.   Whether the proposed connection endangers the city's drinking water.
      8.   Whether the applicant has submitted a maintenance plan ensuring the
proper maintenance and upkeep of the applicant's connection and on site
stormwater improvements.
   G.   Failure: Failure to construct or maintain stormwater improvements in
accordance with an approved stormwater connection permit shall be a violation
of this chapter.
   H.   As Builts: Any person connecting to the stormwater system shall provide
the city's stormwater utility with "as built" plans showing the details and the
location of the connection. The plans shall be in a format that is acceptable
to the city.
   I.   Rate: Connections to the stormwater system shall be designed so that
the discharge to the stormwater system does not exceed two-tenths cubic foot
per second (0.2 cfs) per acre.
   J.   Exempt Connections: The following connections to the stormwater system
are exempt from the permitting requirements of this section:
      1.   Connections from single-family residences, provided that the runoff
from the residences is handled according to a plat or site plan approved by the
city. However, any person desiring to use a basement pump, foundation drain, or
other related fixture directly or indirectly connecting to the stormwater
system must obtain a stormwater connection permit.
      2.   Connections made by the city. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-12: BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
Any person connecting to the stormwater system or developing a commercial or
industrial site shall employ best management practices (BMPs) approved by the
city. The city shall adopt a policy establishing a menu of BMPs that may be
used to satisfy this requirement. The BMPs may be structural and/or
nonstructural, depending on the needs of the site. The BMPs shall be designed
to ensure that the quality and quantity of stormwater release to the city's
stormwater system meets the requirements of federal, state and local laws and
regulations and the city's NPDES permit, and will not exceed the designed
capacity of the stormwater system or jeopardize the integrity of the stormwater
system. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-13: EASEMENTS:
The director, or designee, may enter all private properties through which the
city holds an easement for the purposes of inspecting, observing, measuring,
sampling, repairing or maintaining any portion of the stormwater facilities
lying within the easement, or the performance of any other duties pertinent to
the operation of the stormwater system. All entry and subsequent work, if any,
on an easement shall be completed according to any special terms of the
easement. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-14: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any provision of this
chapter, or whenever the city has cause to believe that there exists, or
potentially exists, a condition which constitutes a violation of this chapter,
the city may enter the premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and
to inspect and copy records related to stormwater compliance. In the event the
owner or occupant refuses entry after a request to enter and inspect has been
made, the city is hereby empowered to seek assistance from any court of
competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-15: REQUIREMENT TO MONITOR AND ANALYZE:
If city tests or inspections indicate that a site is causing or contributing to
stormwater pollution, illegal discharges, and/or nonstormwater discharges to
the stormwater system or water of the United States, and if the violations
continue after notice from the city, the city may require any person engaged in
the illicit activity and/or the owner or operator of the site to provide, at
their own expense, monitoring and analyses required by the city to determine
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-16: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to comply with a requirement of this chapter, the city will order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may require without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment to cover administrative, remediation, monitoring, analyses,
and reporting costs;
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   B.   The city may waive the notice requirements set forth in this section
and immediately proceed with criminal and/or civil action against the violator
if: 1) the violator has committed the same violation in the past, or 2) the
violation, in the opinion of the city, creates a serious risk to persons, the
environment or property, or 3) the city deems the violation to constitute an
emergency. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-17: DAMAGE TO STORMWATER SYSTEM:
Any person who damages any portion of the stormwater system shall be
responsible for repairing the damages. The damages shall be repaired by a
licensed contractor bonded to work in the city and shall be repaired in
accordance with the city's construction standards and specifications. It is
unlawful to remove or alter any portion of the stormwater system without
permission from the director. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-18: MANHOLE COVERS:
It shall be unlawful to open any stormwater manhole or other stormwater fixture
(such as grates, lids or inlets) without permission from the director. (Ord.
2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-19: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   The violation of any provision of this chapter is a class B
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
   B.   If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this chapter,
the city or any other party suffers damages and is required to make repairs
and/or replace any materials, the cost of repair and/or replacement shall be
borne by the violating party and shall be in addition to any criminal or civil
fines and/or penalties.
   C.   Violations of this chapter may also be subject to prosecutions, fines
and penalties from the state of Utah and the United States environmental
protection agency. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-3-20: COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW:
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to relieve any person from an
obligation to comply with an applicable federal, state or local law relating to
stormwater discharges or drinking water protection. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
CHAPTER 4
STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY PERMITS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose And Intent
9-4-2: When Required
9-4-3: Application
9-4-4: Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
9-4-5: Proper Operation And Maintenance
9-4-6: Inspection And Entry
9-4-7: Revocation Or Suspension Of Stormwater Construction Activity Permit
9-4-8: Violations And Enforcement
9-4-9: Exemptions
9-4-10: Appeals
9-4-11: Compliance With Federal And State Law
9-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent the discharge of sediment and
other construction related pollutants from construction sites into the city's
waterways and water systems and surrounding areas. Each year stormwater runoff
carries tons of sediment from construction sites into local drainage systems,
irrigation systems, canals, rivers, and lakes. Sediment from stormwater runoff
also clogs and obstructs storm drains, culverts, and canals and causes damage
to private property, wildlife habitat and water quality.
   B.   The city engineer shall design and the public works director shall
approve construction specifications and standards for the city's storm drain
system. All construction and development activity on the city's storm drain
system shall comply with the construction specifications and standards, copies
of which shall be available in the offices of the city recorder and public
works department. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-2: WHEN REQUIRED:
Subject to the exemptions listed in section
9-4-9 of this chapter, a Clearfield City stormwater construction activity
permit is required before any person or entity may excavate, grub and clear,
grade, or perform any type of construction activity that will disrupt or cause
a change in the natural landscape upon any of the following types of property
located within the city:
   A.   One Acre Or More: Any parcel, lot or land development which is equal to
or greater than one acre (43,560 square feet) in size. A subdivision
development greater than or equal to one acre in size qualifies under this
subsection even if each of the individual lots in the subdivision is smaller
than one acre.
   B.   Special Concern Areas: Any parcel, lot or land development for which
the city determines that because of the nature or type of the parcel, lot or
development, disturbance of the land is likely to result in erosion or the
transport of sediment off of the site by stormwater to a degree substantially
greater than that which would occur under natural landscape conditions. (Ord.
2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-3: APPLICATION:
Any person or entity desiring a stormwater construction activity permit must
first file an application with the planning and zoning secretary. The
application shall be submitted with, or as part of, an application for a site
plan or subdivision approval or building permit.
   A.   Content: The application shall include a stormwater pollution plan
which meets the criteria set forth in section
9-4-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Timing: The applicant shall file the application on or before the
following dates:
      1.   Subdivision: The date that the applicant submits the subdivision
preliminary plat application if the applicant proposes to develop a
subdivision.
      2.   Site Plan: The date that the applicant submits a site plan
application if the applicant proposes to develop a site plan or amended site
plan.
      3.   Building Permit: The date that the applicant submits a building
permit application if the applicant proposes to construct a building on an
existing lot or parcel.
      4.   Other: At least two (2) weeks before the developer intends to
perform any type of work not listed above that would require a stormwater
construction activity permit pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Compliance: If an applicant's development comes under more than one of
the categories listed above, then the applicant shall submit the stormwater
construction activity permit application on the earliest of the dates. Failure
to comply with the application dates set forth above is not a criminal offense,
but may delay the applicant's project. Failure to acquire a required stormwater
construction activity permit is grounds for denying a related subdivision
application, site plan application, conditional use permit application, or
building permit application. It is unlawful to commence work (move dirt) on a
development site before obtaining a required stormwater construction activity
permit.
   D.   Fee: The applicant for a stormwater construction activity permit shall
pay a fee in an amount set by the city council in the fee schedule.
   E.   Application Approval: The city shall approve the application and grant
the permit if the application is complete and meets the criteria set forth in
section
9-4-4 of this chapter. The city shall deny the application or approve the
application with conditions if the city determines that the measures proposed
in the plan fail to meet the criteria set forth in section
9-4-4 of this chapter. Conditions the city may impose in connection with the
approval of a permit include, but are not limited to, the establishment of
specific measures and controls to prevent erosion and the discharge of
sediment, debris and other construction related pollutants from the site by
stormwater.
   F.   Terms: Unless otherwise revoked or suspended, a stormwater construction
activity permit shall be in effect for the full period of the construction
activity. The construction activity will not be considered to be completed
until the following events occur:
      1.   Subdivisions: For permits associated with a subdivision plat
approval:
         a.   The permittee must complete all required subdivision
improvements; and
         b.   One of the following three (3) events must occur:
            (1)   The city issues a final certificate of occupancy for each lot
in the subdivision, or
            (2)   Individual stormwater construction activity permits have been
issued for each lot in the subdivision not having a final occupancy permit, or
            (3)   The property has been revegetated or landscaped in a manner
that eliminates erosion and sediment discharge or that brings the property back
to its natural state.
      2.   Site Plan: For permits associated with a site plan approval, the
date that the permittee has completed all required landscaping and all outside
construction work associated with the site plan.
      3.   Building Permit: For permits associated with a building permit
application, the date that the city issues a final occupancy permit for the
structure covered by the building permit.
      4.   Other: For permits issued that are not tied to other approvals from
the city, the date that the permittee has completed all work associated with
the permit and takes steps required by the permit to prevent further erosion
and runoff from the site.
   G.   Termination: No stormwater construction activity permit shall be
considered terminated until the permittee submits a notice of termination of
construction activity permit ("notice") to the city and the notice is accepted
by the city. The city shall accept the notice if the permittee has met the
requirements of the permit and this chapter. The permittee shall keep and
maintain all permit required improvements on the site until the city accepts
the notice.
   H.   Amendments: In the event that the proposed construction activity for a
site to which a permit pertains is materially altered from that described in an
original plan in a way that may have a significant impact upon the
effectiveness of the measures and controls described in the original plan, the
permittee shall file an amended stormwater prevention plan which meets the
criteria set forth in section
9-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-4: STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN:
   A.   Required Information: The stormwater pollution prevention plan (the
"plan") shall contain the following information:
      1.   Site Description: A site description (including a map with spot
elevations and contour lines) which includes a description of the nature and
location of the construction activity, a description of the intended sequence
of major activities which will disturb soils for major portions of the site
(e.g., grubbing, excavation, grading, utilities, and infrastructure
installation, etc.), and estimates of the total area of the site and the total
area of the site that is expected to be disturbed by excavation, grading, or
other activities;
      2.   Control Description: A description of the proposed measures and
controls that will be implemented during construction activity and/or while the
site is not stable. The plan must clearly describe the times during the
construction process that the measures will be implemented for each major
activity identified pursuant to subsection A1 of this section. The plan shall
also state the name and phone number of the person or entity responsible for
implementation of each control measure.
   B.   Goals And Criteria: The proposed measures and controls described in the
plan shall be designed to meet the following goals and criteria:
      1.   Prevent Or Minimize Discharge: The proposed measures and controls
shall be designed to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent practicable,
the discharge of sediment, debris and other construction related pollutants
from the construction site by stormwater runoff into the storm drainage system.
      2.   Prevent Or Minimize Construction Debris: The proposed measures and
controls shall be designed to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent
practicable, the deposit, discharge, tracking by construction vehicles, or
dropping of mud, sediment, debris or other potential pollutants onto public
streets and rights of way. Any such discharge shall be cleaned up and removed
immediately upon notification to the permittee or when it otherwise comes to
the attention of the permittee. At a minimum, the deposit or discharge shall be
cleaned and removed at the end of the work shift in which the deposit occurred,
or at the end of the workday, whichever comes first.
      3.   BMPs: The proposed measures and controls shall consist of best
management practices (BMPs) available at the time that the plan is submitted.
BMPs may include, but shall not be limited to, temporary silt or sediment
fences, sediment traps and detention ponds, gravel construction entrances and
wash down pads to reduce or eliminate off site tracking, straw bale sediment
barriers, establishment of temporary grasses and permanent vegetative cover,
use of straw mulch as a temporary ground cover, erosion control blankets,
temporary interceptor dikes and swales, storm drain inlet protection, check
dams, pipe slope drain, rock outlet protection, reinforced soil retaining
systems, gabions.
      4.   Stabilization: The proposed measures and controls shall be designed
to preserve existing vegetation, where possible. Disturbed portions of the site
shall be stabilized. Stabilization practices may include temporary seeding,
permanent seeding, mulching, geotextiles, sod stabilization, vegetative buffer
strips, protection of trees, preservation of mature vegetation, and other
appropriate measures. Use of imperious surfaces for stabilization should be
avoided. Stabilization measures shall be initiated as soon as practicable in
disturbed portions of the site where construction activities have temporarily
or permanently ceased, but in no case more than fourteen (14) days after the
construction activity in that portion of the site that has temporarily or
permanently ceased, except under the following circumstances:
         a.   If the initiation of stabilization measures by the fourteenth day
after construction activity temporarily or permanently ceases is precluded by
snow cover or frozen ground conditions, stabilization measures shall be
initiated as soon as practicable; or
         b.   If construction activity on a portion of the site is temporarily
ceased, and earth disturbing will resume within twenty one (21) days, temporary
stabilization measures need not be initiated on that portion of the site.
      5.   Minimize Risk Of Discharge Of Other Materials: The proposed measures
and controls shall be employed to minimize the risk of discharge of
construction related pollutants (such as paint, thinners, solvents and other
chemicals) from the construction site. Such measures may include implementation
of storage to minimize exposure of the material to stormwater as well as spill
prevention and response. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-5: PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
The recipient of a stormwater construction activity permit (the permittee)
shall install the erosion and sediment control measures required by the
approved stormwater pollution plan before commencing any construction activity
on the site to which the plan applies or at such times indicated in the plan.
The erosion and sediment control measures shall be properly installed and
maintained in accordance with the permit, the manufacturer's specifications,
and good engineering practices. The permittee shall maintain such measures on
the site until the city accepts the termination of the permit pursuant to
subsection 9-4-3G of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-6: INSPECTION AND ENTRY:
The permittee shall allow any authorized employees or representatives of the
city, representatives of the state of Utah division of water quality, and
representatives of the EPA, to enter the site to which a permit applies at any
time and to inspect the erosion and sediment control measures maintained by the
permittee. The permittee shall also allow inspection of any records pertaining
to the conditions of the permit. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-7: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY PERMIT:
   A.   Revocation Or Suspension: A stormwater construction activity permit may
be revoked or suspended by the city upon the occurrence of any one of the
following events:
      1.   Failure of a permittee to comply with the plan or any condition of
the permit; or
      2.   Failure of a permittee to comply with any provision of this chapter
or any other applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation related to
stormwater; or
      3.   A determination by the city that the erosion and sediment measures
implemented by a permittee pursuant to the plan are inadequate to prevent or
minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, the discharge of sediment, debris
or other pollutants from the construction site by stormwater.
   B.   Notice: The city shall mail to the permittee a written notice of
noncompliance before revoking or suspending a permit. The notice shall state
the location and nature of the noncompliance and shall also specify what action
is required for the permittee to avoid suspension of the permit. The notice
shall allow the permittee a reasonable time to take the necessary corrective
action to avoid revocation or suspension of the permit which time, in the
absence of exceptional circumstances, shall not be less than ten (10) nor more
than thirty (30) days. The notice shall be mailed to the address listed for the
permittee in the application. If the permittee fails to correct the problems
identified in the notice during the time specified in the notice, the city may
suspend or revoke the permit by mailing or delivering written notice of the
suspension or revocation to the permittee. The permittee may appeal a
suspension or revocation of the permit pursuant to the appeal procedure set
forth in section
9-4-10 of this chapter.
   C.   Exceptional Circumstances: For purposes of this section, exceptional
circumstances include, but are not limited to, situations which involve a risk
of injury to persons, damage to storm drain facilities, or damage to other
property or the environment. The city may take any steps the city deems
necessary to alleviate any such exceptional circumstances as defined above, and
may bill the owner, developer, or contractor responsible for creating the
exceptional circumstances for the cost of alleviating said circumstances.
   D.   Stop Work Order: A stop work order may be issued upon the revocation or
suspension of a permit, or upon the discovery of work being conducted without a
required permit. The stop work order may be issued by inspectors in the public
works department or building inspectors. No construction activity may be
commenced or continued on any site for which a permit has been revoked or
suspended until the permit has been reinstated or reissued.
   E.   Reinstatement: A stormwater construction activity permit may be
reinstated or reissued upon compliance with all provisions of this chapter and
all permit conditions or in the case of a suspension for reasons provided in
this section, upon the filing of an amended stormwater pollution prevention
plan which is designed to correct the deficiencies of the original plan. (Ord.
2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-8: VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a class
B misdemeanor; each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
   B.   Violators of this chapter are also subject to any penalties that may be
imposed by the state of Utah, under the authority of the Utah water quality
act, title 19, chapter 5 of the Utah code, as amended.
   C.   In addition to any criminal fines and/or penalties which may be
assessed for a violation of this chapter, the city shall have the right to
issue a stop work order or to install and/or maintain appropriate erosion and
sediment control measures on any site which is required to have such measures
in the event that construction activity is commenced or continued without such
measures having been installed as required by this chapter. The city shall have
the right to have such measures installed or maintained by city personnel or to
hire a private contractor to perform such work and the contractor and/or the
property owner shall be liable for any and all expenses related to performing
such work plus a twenty five percent (25%) penalty charge. The city may assess
said charges against the bond posted by the contractor and/or property owner.
   D.   Violators of this chapter may also be subject to prosecution, fines and
penalties from the state of Utah and the United States EPA. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-
9-2008)
9-4-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Actions by a public utility, the city, or any other governmental entity
to remove or alleviate an emergency condition, restore utility service, or
reopen a public thoroughfare to traffic;
   B.   Actions by any other person when the city determines, and documents in
writing, that the actions are necessary to remove or alleviate an emergency
condition, restore utility service, or reopen a public thoroughfare;
   C.   Construction activities which disturb less than five hundred (500)
square feet of land surface area, or which consist of the excavation and/or
fill of less than twenty (20) cubic yards of material;
   D.   Landscape maintenance activities on fully developed properties,
necessary to maintain the existing developed landscape; and
   E.   Agricultural and farming operations which constitute the principal use
of any lot or tract of ground located within the city and which meet the
requirements of the city's land use ordinance. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-10: APPEALS:
   A.   An applicant for a stormwater construction activity permit or a
permittee of a stormwater construction activity permit may appeal any decision
or directive by the city or its representatives pursuant to this chapter. The
party desiring to appeal shall file a notice of appeal with the city recorder
within ten (10) days of the decision or directive being appealed. The notice of
appeal shall contain the following information:
      1.   The appellant's name, address and daytime telephone number;
      2.   A short statement describing the basis for the appeal; and
      3.   The relief sought by the appellant.
   B.   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the city recorder shall schedule
an appeal with the city council for their consideration and final
determination. (Ord. 2008-16, 12-9-2008)
9-4-11: COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW:
Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to relieve any person or entity
from any obligation to comply with applicable federal and state laws and
regulations pertaining to clean water and/or stormwater runoff. (Ord. 2008-16,
12-9-2008)
CHAPTER 5
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-5-1: Short Title
9-5-2: Applicability
9-5-3: Authority
9-5-4: Purpose
9-5-5: Definitions
9-5-6: Protection Zones
9-5-7: Uses Within Protection Zones
9-5-8: Administration
9-5-9: Exclusions
9-5-10: Exemptions
9-5-11: Nonapplicability Of Exclusions And Exemptions
9-5-12: Enforcement; Inspections
9-5-13: Violations; Penalties
9-5-14: Appeals
9-5-15: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
9-5-16: Disputes
9-5-17: Liability
9-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ORDINANCE
("the ordinance"). The provisions of this chapter shall be effective within the
municipal boundaries of Clearfield City, Utah. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
It shall be the responsibility of any person owning real property and/or
operating a business within the jurisdiction of the city to conform and comply
with the applicable provision contained in this chapter. Ignorance of this
provision shall not excuse any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-
2009)
9-5-3: AUTHORITY:
The city has authority to adopt the ordinance codified in this chapter in order
to facilitate compliance with the drinking water source protection regulations
promulgated pursuant to Utah administrative code, section R309-113, and
pursuant to authority set forth in the Utah land use development and management
act, section 10-9a-102, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, and other
applicable statutory and common laws of the state of Utah. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-
2009)
9-5-4: PURPOSE:
   A.   Establishment Of Zones: The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the
provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the city by the
establishment of drinking water source protection zones surrounding the
wellheads for all wells which supply the city's water system, and by the
designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be
maintained within such zones. Unless otherwise specified, the provisions of
this chapter apply to new development and/or the handling, movement, and
storage of potentially hazardous materials.
   B.   Protection: The degree of protection afforded by this chapter is
considered adequate for regulatory purposes. This chapter does not ensure that
public drinking water sources will not be subject to accidental or intentional
contamination, nor does it create liability on the part of the city, or any
officer or employee thereof, for any damages to the public water supplies
arising out of reliance on this chapter or any administrative order lawfully
made hereunder.
   C.   Compliance With Other Applicable Laws: A notice to cease or an
exemption issued under this chapter shall not relieve the owner of the
obligation to comply with any other applicable federal, state, regional or
local law or regulations, rules, ordinances, laws or requirements, nor shall
any such notice or exemption relieve any owner of any liability for violation
of such regulations, rules, ordinances, laws or requirements. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-
22-2009)
9-5-5: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
ABANDONED WELL: A well whose purpose and use has been permanently discontinued
or a well that is in a state of disrepair and its intended purpose cannot
reasonably be achieved. A well can be abandoned only after being properly
sealed according to the requirements of the state of Utah administrative rules
for water well drillers, R655-4-12.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (OR BMP): A practice or combination of practices
determined to be the most effective practicable means of preventing or reducing
the amount of pollution to a level compatible with water, soil, and air quality
goals (including technological, economic, and institutional considerations).
CODE: The Clearfield City municipal code, as amended.
CODE INSPECTOR: Any authorized officer, employee or agent of the city whose
duty is to assure code compliance.
COLLECTION AREA: The area surrounding a groundwater source which is underlined
by collection pipes, tiles, tunnels, infiltration boxes, or other groundwater
collection devices.
CONTINUOUS TRANSIT: The nonstop movement of a mobile vehicle except for stops
required by traffic laws.
COUNCIL: The city council of Clearfield City, Utah.
DWSP: Drinking water source protection.
DEPARTMENT: The Clearfield City public works department.
DESIGN STANDARDS: A control which is implemented by a person having a potential
contamination source to prevent discharges to the groundwater. Spill protection
is an example of a design standard.
DISCHARGE: Means, but is not limited to, spilling, leaking, seeping, pouring,
injecting, emitting, emptying, disposing, releasing, or dumping regulated
substances to the soils, air, groundwaters, or surface waters of the city.
Discharge does not include the use of a regulated substance in accordance with
the appropriate use intended or specified by the manufacturer of the
substances; provided that such use is not prohibited by federal, state or local
laws or regulations. Discharge also does not include discharges specifically
authorized by federal or state permits.
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION REVIEW COMMITTEE: That certain committee
comprised of the city engineer, public works director and such other officers
or employees of the department that may be designated.
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONE: An area within which certain practices
are mandated to protect groundwater flowing to public drinking water wells.
EPA: The United States environmental protection agency.
GROUNDWATER: Any water which may be drawn from the ground.
GROUNDWATER DIVIDE: The subsurface boundary at which groundwater flow occurs in
opposite directions, usually occurring at the high and low points of surface
topography. Groundwater flows away from this line at all times.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any hazardous waste as defined by the EPA.
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, the following: zoning and subdivision ordinances, site plan
reviews, design and operating source prohibitions, purchase of property and
development rights, public education programs, groundwater monitoring,
household hazardous waste collection programs, water conservation programs,
memoranda of understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so forth.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, joint
venture, governmental entity or other legal entity, and shall include the
plural as well as the singular.
PETROLEUM PRODUCT: Fuels (gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene, and mixtures of
these products), lubricating oils, motor oils (new and used), hydraulic fluids,
and other similar petroleum based products.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharge of contaminants to groundwater or
potential discharge of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances"
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain
fields, class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps, land
filling of sludge and septage, manure piles, slag piles, pit privies, and
animal feeding operations with more than ten (10) animals units. The following
clarify the definition of pollution source:
Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following conditions are
met: animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or maintained for
a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period, and
crop, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in
the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility. Two (2) or
more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered to be a
single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a common area,
or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
Animal Units: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation calculated
by adding the following numbers: the numbers of slaughter and feeder cattle
multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by 1.4,
plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied by
0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1 plus the number of horses
multiplied by 2.0.
Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified in the
section 302(EHS) column of the "title III" (EPA 560/91-011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE (OR PCS): Any facility or site which employs an
activity or procedure which may potentially contaminate groundwater. A
pollution source is also a potential contamination source.
PROTECTION ZONE: The delineation zones of the drinking water source protection
zone, as set forth in section
9-5-6 of this chapter.
REGULATED SUBSTANCES: Substances (including degradation and interaction
products) which because of quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical
(including ignitability, corrosivity, reactiveness and toxicity), or infectious
characteristics, radio mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, teratogenicity,
bioaccumulative effect, persistence (nondegradability) in nature, or any other
characteristics relevant to a particular material that may cause significant
harm to human health and/or the environment (including surface and ground
water, plants and animals).
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over "hazardous
waste" as defined herein.
SARA: The superfund amendment and reauthorization act, title III, 40 CFR 300-
302, pertaining to emergency response and right to know.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAIN FIELD SYSTEM: A system which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drain field which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or
facilities for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank/
drain field system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
WELL: Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted, or otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is
for the location, acquisition, development or artificial recharge of
groundwater.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves, and other attachments. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-6: PROTECTION ZONES:
There is established use districts to be known as zones one, two, three and
four of the drinking water source protection area, or alternatively the
management area. These zones shall have the approval of the state of Utah,
division of drinking water as described in R309-600 source protection for
groundwater sources identified and described as follows:
   A.   Zone One: Zone one is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius
from the wellhead.
   B.   Zone Two: Zone two is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day
groundwater time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer(s)
which supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide,
whichever is closer, as specified on the "drinking water source protection zone
map" on file with Davis County.
   C.   Zone Three: Zone three (waiver criteria zone) is the area within a
three (3) year groundwater time to travel to the wellhead or margin of the
collection area, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to the
groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer, as
specified on the "drinking water source protection zone map" on file with Davis
County.
   D.   Zone Four: Zone four is the area within a fifteen (15) year groundwater
time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies
water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is
closer, as specified on the "drinking water source protection zone map" on file
with Davis County.
   E.   Management Area: Management area is the area outside of zone one and
within a two (2) mile radius where the optional two (2) mile radius delineation
procedure has been used to identify a protection area, as described in the
Utah, division of drinking water R309-600 source protection; drinking water
source protection for groundwater sources. This area shall be treated as for
zone two. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-7: USES WITHIN PROTECTION ZONES:
No person shall discharge, or permit the discharge of any regulated substances
or petroleum products, whether treated or untreated, to soils, air, groundwater
or surface water in any protection zone, that may have a deleterious effect
upon groundwater within the city, unless the discharge is in compliance with
all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   A.   Allowable Uses: The following uses shall not be excluded within
drinking water source protection zones by this chapter.
      1.   Any use allowed within existing agricultural, single-family
residential, multi-family residential, and commercial districts so long as such
uses conform to the rules and regulations of any regulatory agency having
jurisdiction;
      2.   Any other open land use where any building located on the property
is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
   B.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses or conditions are prohibited within
drinking water source protection zones, whether or not such use or condition
may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of an allowable use under
subsection A of this section.
      1.   Zone one: The location of any "pollution source" as defined herein.
      2.   Zone two: The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with design standards.
      3.   Zone three and four: The location of a potential contamination
source unless it can be controlled through land management strategies.
   C.   Reporting Of Spills: Any spill of a regulated substance in excess of
the nonaggregate quantity thresholds established by the list of hazardous and
EPA designation reportable quantities and notification substances under CERCLA
(40 CFR 302, effective July 3, 1986), shall commence immediately upon discovery
of the spill. A full written report shall be submitted to the city within
fifteen (15) days of discovery of the spill.
   D.   Best Management Practices: Under the provisions of this chapter, all
potential contamination sources within the city's boundaries shall incorporate
and utilize best management practices in their operations. BMPs that reduce the
potential for spills and leaks at a site to occur and enter groundwater shall
be construed within the context of this chapter to include, but not be limited
to, structural and nonstructural practices, conservation practices, and
operation and maintenance procedures as specified by the Utah department of
environmental quality, division of drinking water and the EPA.
   E.   Drinking Water Source Protection Zone Maps: The extent of the recharge
areas and the protection zones may be seen on the "drinking water source
protection zone maps" on file with the city recorder. The "drinking water
source protection zone maps" are incorporated and made a part of this chapter.
These maps shall be on file with the city of Clearfield, and shall be
maintained by the city and public water systems whose groundwater resources lay
within the city of Clearfield's boundaries and jurisdictions. Any amendment,
additions or deletions to these maps shall be by the city and/or the public
water system following written notice after approval by the drinking water
source protection review committee. Notice shall be published at least thirty
(30) days in a newspaper of general circulation, prior to consideration by the
city. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-8: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provide herein, the policies and procedures for
administration of any protection zone established under this chapter,
including, without limitation, those applicable to nonconforming uses,
exceptions, enforcement and penalties shall be the same as provided in the
existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the same is presently enacted or may
from time to time be amended. If it is necessary to have additional expertise
to evaluate a proposed variance, it shall be at the expense of the entity
requesting the variance. The recommendation relative to the requested variance
shall be documented and returned to both the requester and Clearfield City.
If there are noncompliant potential contamination sources found in the source
protection zones that cannot be resolved by the water system, this shall be
brought before the Davis County health department, and/or the applicable
regulatory agency for enforcement action. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-9: EXCLUSIONS:
The following substances are not subject to the provisions of this chapter,
provided that these substances are handled, stored, and disposed of in a manner
that does not result in an unauthorized discharge or cause contamination of the
groundwater.
   A.   Required substances stored at residences that do not exceed ten (10)
pounds or five (5) gallons and used for personal, family or household purposes;
   B.   Commercial products limited to use at the site solely for office or
janitorial purposes when stored in total quantities of less than twenty (20)
pounds or ten (10) gallons;
   C.   Prepackaged consumer products available through retail sale to
individuals for personal, family or household use, that are properly stored;
   D.   Water based latex paint;
   E.   Fertilizer and treated seed;
   F.   Pesticide products and materials intended for use in weed abatement,
pest control, erosion control, soil amendment or similar applications when
applied in accordance with manufacturer's instructions, label directions, and
national recognized standards;
   G.   Compressed gases;
   H.   Substances or mixtures which may pose a hazard but are labeled pursuant
to the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-10: EXEMPTIONS:
The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Continuous Transit: The transportation of any regulated substance(s)
through any drinking water protection zone shall be allowed provided that the
transporting vehicle is in continuous transit.
   B.   Vehicular And Lawn Maintenance Fuel And Lubricant Use: The use of any
petroleum products solely as an operational fuel in the vehicle or lawn
maintenance fuel tank or as a lubricant in such a vehicle shall be exempt from
the provision of this chapter. These spent products shall be properly disposed
of in compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws and
regulations. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-11: NONAPPLICABILITY OF EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
The exclusions set forth in section
9-5-9 of this chapter and the exemptions set forth in section
9-5-10 of this chapter shall not apply to zone one. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-12: ENFORCEMENT; INSPECTIONS:
The department is granted the right to enforce the provisions of this chapter
on behalf of the city. The code inspector has the right to conduct inspections
to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The code inspector
shall inform the department and other city officials and entities, as deemed
appropriate, of the results of the inspection and whether violations were
noted. The code inspector shall enforce the provisions of this chapter without
regard to whether the wells within the city boundaries are owned by the city.
Noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter is a violation of this
chapter. In the event any person is found to be in noncompliance with the
requirements of this chapter, penalties (e.g., citations of noncompliance,
orders to cease operations or administrative penalties) may be assessed.
This chapter regulates property uses within the drinking water source
protection zones within the city. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Whenever it is determined that there is a violation of this chapter or the
regulations promulgated pursuant hereto, then:
   A.   Any person found to be in violation of any provisions of this chapter
will be served with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time frame for compliance. The department will deliver
notice to the violator. The notice of violation shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Be dated and signed by the code inspector that made the inspection
or determined the violation;
      3.   Specify the violation or violations;
      4.   Provide a specific date that the violations will be corrected by;
      5.   State that if the violation is not corrected by a specific date a
hearing may be requested before the drinking water source protection review
committee.
   B.   If the violation does not pose an immediate threat to public health,
then a written warning of violation may be issued within thirty (30) days. The
violator has the opportunity to show a good faith effort to correct an
unintentional violation within a reasonable amount of time.
   C.   In the event of a discharge of a regulated substance, if the department
deems the activity to pose a real and present danger of contaminating surface
or ground water which could normally enter the public water supply, the
department has the authority under this chapter to cause the immediate
cessation of the activity or use of such regulated substance, require
administrative controls to mitigate the danger and/or initiate other pollution
control and abatement activities which it deems necessary in its discretion.
   D.   A person is in violation of this chapter, if use of regulated
substances in a drinking water source protection zone exceeds twenty (20)
gallons or one hundred sixty (160) pounds at any time. The total use of
regulated substances may not exceed fifty (50) gallons or four hundred (400)
pounds in any twelve (12) month period.
   E.   A cease and desist order shall be issued by the department if the
violator is found not to employ BMP and there is an immediate threat to public
health and safety or if the violation is not corrected within the time frame
specified in a written warning previously issued to the violator. In the event
the violator fails to comply with a cease and desist order within the specified
time period, the department has the authority to initiate proceedings for
issuance of penalties and other relief as necessary.
   F.   Unless otherwise specified in this code or by state or federal law,
violation of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a class B misdemeanor,
punishable as provided by law. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-14: APPEALS:
Persons cited under the enforcement provisions of section
9-5-13 of this chapter shall be afforded a process for appealing the ruling of
the department.
   A.   If the appeal pertains to a written warning of violation requesting the
violator to correct an unintentional violation in a reasonable amount of time,
the appellant can submit to the department a written statement demonstrating
compliance or explaining a process for coming into compliance. This written
response is required no later than twenty (20) days from the date of issuance
of the warning.
   B.   If the appeal pertains to a cease and desist order issued by the
department, the appellant may submit a written appeal response no later than
ten (10) days from the date of issuance of the order.
   C.   The written appeal shall contain:
      1.   Documentation of compliance; or
      2.   A response to the specific violation cited in the cease and desist
order and the remedial action planning to bring the facility into compliance;
and
      3.   A reasonable schedule for compliance.
   D.   Upon receipt of the written appeal, the department shall be required to
review the appeal within ten (10) days of its receipt and respond to the
appellant. If the department determines that the written response from the
appellant is adequate and noncompliance issues are addressed, the appellant
will be notified by mail and no further action is required. If the department
determines that the appeals response is inadequate, the appellant may request a
hearing before the department. This hearing shall be held within thirty (30)
days of receiving the cease and desist order and shall remain in effect until
the hearing is conducted. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-15: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other restrictions, including land use codes or development regulations,
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the most stringent restrictions shall
prevail. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-16: DISPUTES:
If management areas were delineated using the optional two (2) mile radius
delineation procedure, or if protection zones appear to be excessively
conservative (too large), they may be disputed according to the following
procedure:
   A.   Submit written comments to the land use authority stating the reasons
that the delineated management area or protective zones should be reconsidered.
   B.   If the land use authority concurs, it may authorize a new hydrogeologic
investigation at the expense of the entity requesting changes to the delineated
management area or protection zones.
   C.   The new hydrogeologic investigation must then be submitted to the Utah
division of drinking water for their review.
   D.   If the division of drinking water finds that the new hydrogeologic
investigation is protective and meets the requirements of a delineation report
according to the Utah drinking water source protection for groundwater sources
rule (309-600), the land use authority may enforce this chapter according to
the new protection zones. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
9-5-17: LIABILITY:
Any person subject to regulation under this chapter shall be liable with
respect to regulated substances emanating on or from the person's property for
all cost of removal or remedial action incurred by the city or the department
and for damages for injury to, destruction of, or loss of natural resources,
including the reasonable cost of assessing such injury, destruction, or loss
from the release or threatened release of a regulated substance as defined by
this chapter. Such removal or remedial action by the city or the department may
include, but is not limited to, the prevention of further contamination of
groundwater, monitoring, containment and cleanup and disposal of regulated
substances resulting from spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, or
dumping of any regulated substance or material which creates, or is expected to
create, an emergency or hazardous situation. (Ord. 2009-11, 9-22-2009)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Codes Adopted
10-1-2: Administrative Code
10-1-3: Building Permit
10-1-4: Subsurface Water
10-1-5: Off Site Improvements
10-1-6: Appeals
10-1-7: Penalty
10-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following codes are hereby adopted as the rules, regulations and standards
for the construction, occupancy, alteration, repair, remodeling and maintenance
of all structures and buildings, all of which have been printed as a code, in
book form, and at least one copy of which has been filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the city recorder:
   A.   The most current edition of the international building code (IBC),
including appendix J, promulgated by the International Code Council (ICC), and
amendments adopted under the Utah building standards act rules ("rules")
together with standards incorporated into the IBC by reference, including, but
not limited to, the most current edition of the international energy
conservation code (IECC) promulgated by the ICC and the most current edition of
the international residential code (IRC) promulgated by the ICC and adopted by
the state of Utah;
   B.   The most current edition of the national electrical code (NEC), as
published and promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association and
adopted by the state of Utah;
   C.   The most current edition of the international mechanical code (IMC), as
published and promulgated by the ICC, together with all applicable standards
set forth in the most current international fuel gas code (IFGC) and adopted by
the state of Utah;
   D.   The most current edition of the international plumbing code (IPC), as
published and promulgated by the ICC and the amendments adopted under the rules
in section R156-56-707 and adopted by the state of Utah;
   E.   The most current edition of the international property maintenance code
(IPMC), as published and promulgated by the ICC and adopted by the state of
Utah;
   F.   The most current edition of the international fire code (IFC), as
published and promulgated by the ICC and adopted by the state of Utah. The
language hereinafter is in addition to the language in the published codes:
      1.   Flammable Or Combustible Liquids: The limits referred to in section
3404 of the 2006 international fire code in which the storage of flammable or
combustible liquids is restricted are hereby established as follows:
         a.   The storage, use or dispensing of flammable or combustible
liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited within the following limits:
            (1)   All residential areas within the city limits.
            (2)   Amounts greater than two thousand one hundred (2,100) gallons
of class I, II, IIIA, and IIIB liquids is prohibited in all commercial and
agricultural zones within the city. Amounts less than two thousand one hundred
(2,100) gallons shall be stored, used or dispensed in accordance with section
3404 of the 2006 international fire code, as amended.
      2.   Liquefied Petroleum Gases: The limits referred to in section 3809 of
the 2006 international fire code, in which storage of liquefied petroleum gas
is restricted, are hereby established as follows:
         a.   One hundred twenty five (125) gallons' water capacity in all
residential zones within the city limits.
         b.   One thousand (1,000) gallons' water capacity in all commercial
and agricultural zones within the city.
         c.   Two thousand (2,000) gallons' aggregated water capacity at any
one installation in any industrial/manufacturing zone within the city limits.
      3.   Explosives And Blasting Agents: The limits referred to in section
3304 of the 2006 international fire code, in which storage of explosives and
blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established as follows:
         a.   No blasting agents or explosives may be stored, used,
manufactured or dispensed, except as provided for by chapter 33 of the 2006
international fire code.
      4.   New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies: The building official, the
fire chief and the chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall act as a
committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies for which
permits are required in addition to those now enumerated in the international
fire code. The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his office and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons;
   G.   The most current international existing building code (IEBC), as
published and promulgated by the ICC and adopted by the state of Utah;
   H.   The 1997 uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, as
published and promulgated by the International Conference of Building
Officials; and
   I.   All other amendments to the above codes promulgated in the Utah uniform
building standards act rules by the state building codes commission and the
state fire prevention board. (Ord. 2008-05, 7-22-2008)
10-1-2: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE:
   A.   Adopted: Except as amended herein, the 1997 uniform administrative code
is adopted establishing rules, regulations and standards for the administration
and enforcement of all codes mentioned in this title, all of which rules and
regulations have been printed as a code, in book form; one copy thereof has
been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the city
recorder.
   B.   Fees: All building and other applicable fees shall be assessed as
adopted in the most recent consolidated fee schedule for Clearfield City. (Ord.
2008-05, 7-22-2008)
10-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   Required: The building official shall require the issuance of a permit
for any excavation, grading, fill or construction in the community.
   B.   Review: The building official shall require review of each permit
application to determine whether the proposed site and improvements will be
reasonably safe from mudslides. If a proposed site and improvements are in a
location that may have mudslide hazards, a further review must be made by
persons qualified in geology and soils engineering and the proposed new
construction, substantial improvement or grading must: 1) be adequately
protected against mudslide damage; and 2) not aggravate the existing hazard.
(Ord. 2008-05, 7-22-2008)
10-1-4: SUBSURFACE WATER:
   A.   Administration: The administration of this section will be the
responsibility of the building official or his designated representative and
his approval will be a condition precedent to the issuance of any building
permit. It will be the duty of the building official or his representative to
investigate the standards set forth in this section, together with any and all
other standards which may be included in the future pertaining to drainage of
subsurface waters and to recommend in writing to the city council whether the
proposed improvements should be allowed upon the said properties and shall
further recommend any additional requirements which he believes to be in the
best interests of the city to ensure that there is no damage to persons or
property within the area of the proposed improvement. Such recommendations
might include the use of subdrains to lower the water table or other methods
which the building official or his designated representative determines would
be in the best interest of the residents of the city, said residents to include
both those in the area at the present time as well as others who may be in this
area at some time in the future.
   B.   Permission Required For Improvements: It shall be unlawful for any
person to make any improvements upon their ground where subsurface water exists
without obtaining the written permission of the building official. This
requirement shall include, but not be limited to, subdividers, persons
developing ground for industrial and/or commercial purposes and homeowners
constructing improvements upon their own property.
   C.   Minimum Standards Maintained: Before written permission is issued, the
building official shall ensure that the following minimum standards are
maintained:
      1.   Test Holes: All persons shall dig test holes upon said properties to
a depth sufficient to determine the extent of the subsurface water table in the
proposed development, to include the depth thereof and any other information
regarding same which may be required by the city.
      2.   Footings: All footings shall be at least two feet (2') above the
highest water table elevations and the type of house construction or other
development shall be governed by this standard. Otherwise, a foundation drain
shall be installed around footings and drained into a positive drainage system.
      3.   Inspection Of Table: In areas where soil conservation maps indicate
high water tables and in all other questionable areas that might be designated
as high water tables by the building official, no building permits will be
issued without water table inspection during high water table season.
      4.   Table Elevations: All applications must supply data as to water
table elevations.
      5.   Land Developers:
         a.   Drainage Easements: The land developer shall provide drainage
easements along side or front lot lines as may be required for drainage
purposes; the size of said easement shall be determined by the building
official and shall, in all events, be a minimum of seven feet (7'). The
building official shall recommend whether the drainage easement shall be
separated from other utility easements or shall be used concurrently with said
easements.
         b.   Drainage: The building official shall require the land developer
to provide for adequate and proper drainage of subsurface water from the land
being developed. A registered engineer must engineer and plan all subsurface
drain lines and two (2) copies of the plan for such drain lines must be
submitted to the building official for his approval and for approval by the
city engineer. No ditch or canal shall be approved as suitable for the use of
subsurface water drainage without the written permission of the appropriate
canal company or of the water users for such use. No ditch or canal shall be
used for subsurface water drainage unless adequately improved to handle such
water as might be reasonably expected to flow from the canal and ditch water,
subsurface runoff water, subsurface water drainage and other water expected to
reach such canal or ditch. No ditch, canal or other open waterway shall be
permitted within property dedicated or to be dedicated for public use. The land
developer shall remove such waterways from property to be so dedicated before
the submission of the final plat.
      6.   Grading: All grading of any kind shall be done so as to ensure that
the drainage is away from the proposed improvements and in such a manner as to
prevent any conveying or trapping of water adjacent to the basement and
foundation walls of the improvement.
   D.   Failure To Comply: The building official is hereby given authority to
revoke any building permits and/or certificates until the applicant shall
comply with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2008-05, 7-22-2008)
10-1-5: OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section shall be to promote the health,
safety, convenience and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants
of the city to facilitate orderly growth and development of the city; and to
establish the rights, duties and responsibilities of subdividers, contractors,
builders and owners with respect to land, subdivisions, buildings and
construction of streets, gutters, sidewalks, curbs, sewers, culinary water
facilities, storm drains and other off site improvements.
   B.   Conditions For Permit Or License: Conditions for a permit or license
for building or improvements must include establishing a bond for off site
improvements.
   C.   Granting Permit Or License: No city officer or agent shall grant any
permit or license in any commercial, residential, industrial, manufacturing or
other zone for the construction of any building or the commencement of any
improvements to any lot, tract or property where the same would be in violation
of title 12, chapter 9 of this code.
   D.   Fees: A fee shall be charged for installation of off site improvements
in accordance with the city's current consolidated fee schedule. The full
amount shall be collected when the permit is issued and shall be paid in cash
or check. The contractor shall have one year from completion of the project to
have all off site improvements installed and accepted by the city. Failure to
do so will result in the forfeiture of the fee. (Ord. 2008-05, 7-22-2008)
10-1-6: APPEALS:
Any person disputing the building official's application or interpretation of
any code adopted by this chapter shall have a right of appeal pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
   A.   Filing; Information: The person filing the appeal (appellant) shall
file an appeal with the city recorder. The appeal must be in writing and must
include:
      1.   The name, address and daytime telephone number of the appellant;
      2.   The date of the decision from which the appeal is made;
      3.   A description of all facts and circumstances giving rise to the
decision and the appeal, including all relevant documents, plans and drawings
submitted to the building official and all relevant documents, plans and
drawings received from the building official;
      4.   A copy of the written decision from which the appellant is
appealing. If no written decision exists, the appellant shall submit an
affidavit describing the decision; and
      5.   A description of the relief requested, including a description of
the decision the appellant feels should have been made.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing: Appeals must be filed within thirty (30) days of
the date of the decision from which the appeal is taken.
   C.   Incomplete: Appeals which do not contain all of the information
described in subsection A of this section shall be deemed incomplete and shall
be returned to the appellant. The appellant shall then have an additional
thirty (30) days to submit a complete appeal.
   D.   Notification; Response: Upon receiving an appeal, the city recorder
shall notify the building official that an appeal has been filed and the
building official shall have twenty (20) days to respond. Responses shall be in
writing and may be accompanied by any additional documents, plans or drawings
which were not submitted with the original appeal and which the building
official believes will be beneficial in explaining the original decision. The
response, if any, shall be submitted to the city recorder.
   E.   Failure To Respond: If the building official fails to submit a response
within twenty (20) days of receiving notice of the appeal, the city recorder
may presume that the building official will not file a response.
   F.   Referral To Planning Commission: Within thirty (30) days of receiving
an appeal, the city recorder shall refer the appeal and any response to the
planning commission for a hearing. The planning commission shall convene a
hearing on the appeal within thirty (30) days after the matter is referred to
them by the city recorder.
   G.   Hearing Notice: The planning commission shall give the appellant at
least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing.
   H.   Hearing Procedure: At the hearing on the matter, the appellant shall
have a right to: 1) be represented by an attorney at his own expense; 2)
present evidence and call witnesses regarding the appeal; and 3) cross examine
any witnesses called by the city in support of the original decision.
   I.   Written Decision: The planning commission shall issue a written
decision to the appellant, building official, and city recorder regarding the
appeal within thirty (30) days of the date of the hearing.
   J.   Limited Authority Of Planning Commission: The planning commission shall
have no authority to hear appeals regarding the administrative provisions of
the codes. The planning commission shall have no authority to waive any of the
requirements of any of the codes.
   K.   Fee Required: The appellant shall be required to pay the fee specified
by the city's fee schedule at the time the appeal is filed with the city
recorder. If the planning commission overturns the original decision of the
building official, the fee shall be refunded to the appellant. (Ord. 2008-17,
12-9-2008)
10-1-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the
codes and standards hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith; or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder; or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder; or any certificate or permit issued thereunder and from
which no appeal has been taken; or who shall fail to comply with such an order
as affirmed or modified by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for a violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Applicability: The application of the above penalty shall not be held
to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 2008-05, 7-22-
2008)
TITLE 11
LAND USE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Interpretation
11-1-4: Conflicting Provisions
11-1-5: Previous Ordinances
11-1-6: Licenses To Conform
11-1-7: Severability
11-1-8: Vested Rights
11-1-9: Exactions
11-1-10: Public Meetings, Hearings, And Notice Requirements
11-1-11: Authority
11-1-12: Appeal Authority
11-1-13: Variances
11-1-14: Annexation
11-1-15: Development Applications And Procedures
11-1-16: Development Agreements
11-1-17: Determination For Uses Not Listed As Permitted Or Conditional Uses
11-1-18: Clearfield Development, Design, And Construction Standards
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the LAND USE ORDINANCE OF CLEARFIELD CITY, UTAH.
(Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, convenience and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants
of the city by, among other things, lessening congestion in the streets;
securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers; providing adequate light
and air; preventing the overcrowding of land; avoiding undue concentration of
population; facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; protecting the tax
base, securing economy in governmental expenditures; fostering the city's
industries; protecting the urban and nonurban development; and the preservation
and stabilization of property values. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
Interpretation and application of the provisions and requirements contained
herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes set forth,
unless otherwise specifically stated. If in the course of administration
hereof, a question arises as to the meaning of any phrase, section, or chapter,
the interpretation thereof shall be given by the planning and zoning
administrator of Clearfield City and shall be construed to be the official
interpretation thereof. Appeals of the planning and zoning administrator's
interpretation shall be made in accordance with table 11.1 of this section and
section
11-1-12 of this chapter.
   TABLE 11.1
   LAND USE AND APPEAL AUTHORITY
Land Use    Land Use Authority      Appeal Authority
Application Advisory Body Authority First Appeal         Second Appeal
                                    Days to Appeal3 Body Days to Appeal3 Body
               Land Use Authority         Appeal Authority
Land Use                                  First Appeal       Second Appeal
Application    Advisory Body Authority    Days to Body       Days to Body
                                          Appeal3            Appeal3
General Plan   Planning                           District
or Map         Commission    City Council 30      Court      n/a     None
Amendment
Land Use       Planning                           District
Ordinance or   Commission    City Council 30      Court      n/a     None
Map Amendment
Subdivision    Planning                           District
Ordinance or   Commission    City Council 30      Court      n/a     None
Amendment
Development    Planning      City Council 30      District   n/a     None
Agreement      Commission                         Court
Project        Staff         Planning     n/a     None       n/a     None
Concept Plan1                Commission
                             Planning             Land Use           District
Site Plan      Staff         Commission   10      Hearing    30      Court
                                                  Officer
Administrative n/a           Staff        10      Planning   30      District
Site Plan                                         Commission         Court
Preliminary                  Planning             Land Use           District
Subdivision    Staff         Commission   10      Hearing    30      Court
Plat                                              Officer
Final                                             Land Use           District
Subdivision    n/a           Staff        10      Hearing    30      Court
Plat                                              Officer
Conditional                  Planning             Land Use           District
Use            Staff         Commission   10      Hearing    30      Court
                                                  Officer
Sign Permit    n/a           Staff        10      Planning   30      District
                                                  Commission         Court
Parcel Line                                       Land Use           District
Adjustment     n/a           Staff        10      Hearing    30      Court
                                                  Officer
Lot Line                                          Land Use           District
Adjustment     n/a           Staff        10      Hearing    30      Court
                                                  Officer
Amendment of
Approved                                                           
Subdivision
Plat:
                             Planning             Land Use           District
Preliminary    Staff         Commission   10      Hearing    30      Court
                                                  Officer
                             Planning             Land Use           District
Final          Staff         Commission   10      Hearing    30      Court
                                                  Officer
Variance       Staff         n/a          n/a     Planning   30      District
                                                  Commission         Court
Street or      Staff         City Council 30      District   n/a     None
Alley Vacation                                    Court
               Shall comply
               with the
Annexations    requirements                                         
               of title 10
               of Utah Code
               Annotated.
Administrative n/a           Staff        10      Planning   30      District
Approvals2                                        Commission         Court
 
Any appeal of a City Council decisions shall be to the District Court.
In such cases where the appellant may choose either the Land Use Hearing
Officer or District Court as the appeal authority, the appeal must be filed in
10 days if to the Land Use Hearing Officer, and 30 days if to the District
Court.
Notes:
1.   Optional application, no decision rendered.
2.   Administrative approvals include interpretations of the land use
ordinance, etc.
3.   Calendar days from the time of written notification by the City of formal
action on the applications, or approval of the minutes of the meeting in which
the action was taken, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
11-1-4: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of other private
covenants and agreements or other laws or general ordinances of the city, but
shall prevail and take precedence over such provisions which are less
restrictive. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-5: PREVIOUS ORDINANCES:
The zoning ordinance for Clearfield City in existence prior to the adoption of
the ordinance codified herein, together with all maps which are part of such
ordinance, are hereby superseded and amended to read as set forth herein;
provided, however, that the ordinance codified herein, including the attached
maps, shall be deemed a continuation of the previous ordinance, and not a new
enactment insofar as the substance of revisions, whether in the same or
different language; and the ordinance codified herein shall be so interpreted
upon all questions of construction relating to tenure of officers and boards
established by previous ordinances and to questions of conforming and
nonconforming use, buildings, structures and to questions as to the dates upon
which such uses, buildings or structures became conforming or nonconforming.
All ordinances in force immediately prior to the adoption of the ordinance
codified herein shall continue in force after said adoption for the purpose of
all rights acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures and liabilities incurred and
actions therefor. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-6: LICENSES TO CONFORM:
All departments, officials and employees of the city which are vested with duty
or authority to issue permits and licenses shall conform to the provisions of
this title and shall issue no permit or license for a use, building or purpose
where the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this title. (Ord.
2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-7: SEVERABILITY:
Should any article, section, clause or provision of this title be declared by
the courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this title
as a whole or any part hereof other than the part so declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-8: VESTED RIGHTS:
   A.   An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the
application conforms to the requirements of the city's zoning map and
applicable land use ordinance in effect when a complete application is
submitted and all fees have been paid, unless:
      1.   The governing body, on the record, finds that a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
application; or
      2.   In the manner provided by city ordinance and before the application
is submitted, the city has formally initiated proceedings to amend its
ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as
submitted. The process for formally initiating proceedings to amend the city's
ordinances shall begin with the filing of the petition required by section
11-6-2 of this title. (Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
   B.   The city shall process an application without regard to proceedings
initiated to amend the city's ordinances if:
      1.   One hundred eighty (180) days have passed since the proceedings were
initiated; and
      2.   The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits the
approval of the application as submitted.
   C.   An application for a land use approval is considered submitted and
complete when the application is provided in a form that complies with the
requirements of this title and all applicable fees have been paid.
   D.   The continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is
conditioned upon the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the land
use with reasonable diligence.
   E.   The city shall not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit a
requirement that is not expressed:
      1.   In the land use permit or in documents on which the land use permit
is based; or
      2.   In the city's ordinances.
   F.   The City will not withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy
because of an applicant's failure to comply with a requirement that is not
expressed:
      1.   In the building permit or in documents on which the building permit
is based; or
      2.   In the City's ordinances.
   G.   The City is bound by the terms and standards of applicable Land Use
Ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those ordinances.
(Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-9: EXACTIONS:
The City may impose an exaction or exactions on proposed land use development
if:
   A.   An essential nexus exists between a legitimate governmental interest
and each exaction; and
   B.   Each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to
the impact of the proposed development. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-10: PUBLIC MEETINGS, HEARINGS, AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   As provided by Utah Code title 10, chapter 9a, as amended, the City is
required to provide notice of all public hearings and public meetings to
consider legislative or administrative matters. The notice requirements of the
City for all public hearings and public meetings regarding land use
applications are shown in table 11.2, "Public Notice Requirements", of this
section. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
   TABLE 11.2
   PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
                       Posted In At                 Sent Via
                       Least                        Regular
                       3 Public                     U.S. Mail To
                       Locations      Provided To   All Property Sign Posted On
 Sent To Each          Within The     The Applicant Owners       Or Adjacent To
 “Affected Entity” City;          (s)           Located      The Property
                       Or On City’s               Within
                       Official                     300 Feet Of
                       Website                      Subject
                                                    Property
                                                            Sent Via
                                   Posted In At             Regular
                                   Least                    U.S. Mail Sign
                                   3 Public       Provided  To All    Posted On
                                   Locations      To        Property  Or
             Sent To Each          Within The     The       Owners    Adjacent
             “Affected Entity” City;          Applicant Located   To
                                   Or On City’s (s)       Within    The
                                   Official                 300 Feet  Property
                                   Website                  Of
                                                            Subject
                                                            Property
                                                  3         10        10
Adoption or                        10 calendar    calendar  calendar  calendar
modification 10 calendar days      days before    days      days      days
of general   before hearing        hearing        before    before    before
plan or map                                       public    public    public
                                                  hearing   hearing   hearing
Adoption or                                       3         10        10
modification                       10 calendar    calendar  calendar  calendar
of land use  10 calendar days      days before    days      days      days
ordinance or before hearing        hearing        before    before    before
zoning map                                        public    hearing   hearing
                                                  hearing
Approval or                                       3                   10
modification 10 calendar days                     calendar            calendar
of           before public meeting n/a            days      n/a       days
subdivision  (Entities that                       before              before
preliminary  provide services)                    public              meeting
plat                                              meeting
Approval or                                       3                   10
modification                                      calendar            calendar
of final     n/a                   n/a            days      n/a       days
subdivision                                       before              before
plat                                              public              public
                                                  meeting             meeting
Amendment of                                      3                   10
any portion  10 calendar days                     calendar            calendar
of a         before public meeting n/a            days      n/a       days
recorded     (Entities that                       before              before
subdivision  provide services)                    public              meeting
final plat                                        meeting
including
but not
limited to
lot lines,   Shall comply with the requirements of title 10 of Utah Code
lot areas,   Annotated if a public hearing is required.
common
areas, or
easements.
Vacation,
alteration,                                       3
or amendment                                      calendar  10        10
of any       10 calendar days      10 calendar    days      calendar  calendar
public       before hearing        days before    before    days      days
street or                          hearing        public    before    before
alley, or                                         hearing   hearing   hearing
right of
way.
                                                  3                   10
                                                  calendar            calendar
Conditional  n/a                   n/a            days      n/a       days
Use Permit                                        before              before
                                                  public              public
                                                  meeting             meeting
                                                  3                   10
                                                  calendar            calendar
Site Plan    n/a                   n/a            days      n/a       days
Review                                            before              before
                                                  public              public
                                                  meeting             meeting
                                   At least 24    At least
Public       n/a                   hours before   24 hours  n/a       n/a
meetings                           meeting        before
                                                  meeting
Annexations  Shall comply with the requirements of title 10 of Utah Code
             Annotated.
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 2-12-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 4-12-2022; Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-
2023)
   B.   "Affected entity" shall mean all of the following:
      1.   Davis County;
      2.   Cities of Clinton, Layton, Sunset, Syracuse and West Point;
      3.   North Davis fire, North Davis sewer, Weber Basin water, and mosquito
abatement districts;
      4.   Davis County school district;
      5.   Local natural gas provider(s);
      6.   Local electricity provider(s);
      7.   Local telecommunications provider(s);
      8.   Local solid waste provider(s);
      9.   Davis-Weber Canal Company;
      10.   Hill Air Force Base; and
      11.   Utah Department of Transportation. (Ord. 2010-08, 6-22-2010)
   C.   Each notice of a public hearing or public meeting shall include the
date, time, and place of each public hearing.
   D.   Any challenge regarding notice of a public meeting or hearing shall
occur within thirty (30) days of the meeting or hearing; otherwise, notice is
considered to have been adequate and proper. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-11: AUTHORITY:
Section
11-1-3, table 11.1, "Land Use And Appeal Authority", of this chapter identifies
the person, board, commission, agency, or other body designated by the City
Council with authority to act upon a land use application in accordance with
the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-12: APPEAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   Regulations: Section
11-1-3, table 11.1, "Land Use And Appeal Authority", of this chapter identifies
the Appeal Authority and time limit for appeal for each type of land use
application. Aggrieved applicants may appeal the decision of the land use
authority to the appeal authority within the specified time limit. Appeals
shall be filed by a written statement submitted to the city recorder detailing
the grounds upon which the aggrieved applicant is appealing the land use
authority's decision. Upon receipt of such an appeal it shall be placed on the
next available appeal authority's agenda for which the item may be reasonably
scheduled. The following provisions apply generally to appeals to land use
applications and decisions:
      1.   The appellant may only allege the land use authority erred in
administering or applying the ordinance.
      2.   The appellant has burden of proof.
      3.   All theories whereby an appellant would appeal are raised to the
appeal authority before appealing to district court.
      4.   Legislative decisions shall be valid if reasonably debatable and not
illegal.
      5.   Administrative or quasi-judicial decisions shall be valid if
supported by substantial evidence and not illegal.
   B.   Right Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved by, or any officer, department,
council, commission, board or bureau of the city affected by, any decision of
the planning and zoning administrator, planning commission, or city council in
the administration of this title, may appeal such decision in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the planning and zoning administrator, planning
commission, or city council certifies to the appeal authority, as appropriate,
that by reason of facts stated a stay would, in their opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the appropriate
appeal authority or by the district court on application and notice and on due
cause shown.
   D.   Hearing: The appeal authority shall schedule a hearing for the appeal
at a public meeting. Upon hearing the appeal and reviewing all relevant
information submitted, the appeal body may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
and may make such determination as ought to be made and to that end shall have
all the powers of the land use authority. The appeal authority may continue the
hearing at a later time and date, as is reasonable and as may be necessary. A
concurring vote of a simple majority of the total membership of the appeal
authority shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement or determination
of the land use authority.
   E.   Judicial Appeals: Any person aggrieved by, or affected by, any decision
of the city council on a land use application may have and maintain a plenary
action for relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, provided
petition for such relief is presented to the court within thirty (30) calendar
days after the decision.
   F.   Fee: The appellant of a decision on a land use application by city
staff or the planning commission shall pay the fee specified in the city's
current consolidated fee schedule. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-13: VARIANCES:
   A.   Any person or their authorized agent desiring a waiver or modification
of the requirements of the land use ordinance as applied to a parcel of
property that he or she owns, leases, or in which holds some other beneficial
interest, may apply to the planning commission for a variance from the terms of
the land use ordinance.
      1.   The planning commission may grant a variance only if:
         a.   Literal enforcement of the land use ordinance would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the
general purpose of the ordinance;
         b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
         c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zone;
         d.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and
will not be contrary to the public interest; and
         e.   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial
justice done.
      2.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A1 of this section, the
planning commission may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged
hardship:
         a.   Is located on or associated with the property for which the
variance is sought; and
         b.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
      3.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A1 of this section, the
planning commission may not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is
self-imposed or economic. A self-imposed hardship inflicted on a property by
action of a previous owner shall not be reason for granting a variance to the
current owner.
      4.   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances
attached to the property under subsection A1 of this section, the planning
commission may find that special circumstances exist only if the special
circumstances:
         a.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
         b.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same zone.
   B.   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   C.   Variances run with the land.
   D.   The planning commission and any other body may not grant use variances.
   E.   In granting a variance, the planning commission may impose additional
requirements on the applicant that will:
      1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
      2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-14: ANNEXATION:
   A.   The proposed annexation area shall substantially comply with the
requirements of title 10 of Utah Code Annotated.
   B.   The proposed annexation area shall substantially comply with the
policies established by the city's general plan to the extent that it may
address the same, including the city's annexation policy declaration unless
determined otherwise by the city council. Any failure to comply therewith will
not invalidate any action taken by the city council or create a cause of
action.
   C.   The procedures for annexation into the city shall substantially comply
with those set forth in state law currently in effect, or as it may be amended
from time to time. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
   D.   The city may establish forms and procedures for applications/petitions
for annexation to the city in addition to those set forth by state law. (Ord.
2015-19, 12-8-2015)
   E.   The fee for annexation shall be in accordance with the city's current
consolidated fee schedule.
   F.   An appeal of the city council's decision on a petition for annexation
shall be filed only in accordance with the provisions of title 10 of Utah Code
Annotated. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-15: DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   All development and building permit applications are to be presented to
the city on the applicable application form(s) provided by the city. (Ord.
2015-19, 12-8-2015)
   B.   The steps in the review and consideration of the various development
applications, permits, and licenses authorized by this title may be identified
by the city council and provided with the applicable application form.
   C.   The standards and requirements of this title, as applicable, shall
apply to all uses or development activity located or proposed within the city.
No use or development activity may be commenced or undertaken unless all
necessary approvals, permits, and licenses have been issued in accordance with
the provisions of this title, as applicable. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
   D.   An application for a required development approval, permit, or license
shall be initiated by submitting the appropriate application(s) to the planning
and zoning administrator. (Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
   E.   Upon receipt of an application, the planning and zoning administrator
shall make a determination concerning its completeness. If the planning and
zoning administrator determines that the application is incomplete, he or she
shall notify the applicant in writing, identifying the deficiencies of the
application and advising the applicant that no action will be taken by the city
until they have been corrected. If the applicant fails to correct the specified
deficiencies within thirty (30) days from the date of notification by the
planning and zoning administrator, the application shall be deemed withdrawn
and the applicable application fees will be returned to the applicant. (Ord.
2009-17, 11-24-2009)
   F.   An applicant may withdraw an application at any time prior to a final
decision on the application. Application fees shall not be refundable if prior
to withdrawal:
      1.   A review of the application by the city has commenced; or
      2.   Notice of a meeting or public hearing to consider the application
with the planning commission or city council has been mailed, posted or
published. (Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
   G.   The rights conferred by a development permit upon the filing of a
complete application and approval by the city shall be limited to those rights
granted in the applicable provisions of this title and subject to any
conditions attached to the development permit.
   H.   All development approvals may be conditioned so that no building permit
is issued on the subject property until all delinquent taxes and charges have
been paid to date of approval.
   I.   Approval of a land use application shall expire after one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date of approval unless the land use or construction
in furtherance of the land use has commenced. A maximum extension of six (6)
months may be granted by the land use authority under exceptional
circumstances.
   J.   If an application for a development approval, permit or license is
denied for failure to meet the requirements of this title, an application for
all or a part of the same property shall not be considered for a period of at
least one year from the date of denial unless the subsequent application is for
a development that is different from the previously denied proposal, the prior
denial was based upon a mistake of fact, or on a motion duly passed by the city
council to act immediately and identifying a valid public purpose.
   K.   In order to review information relevant to an application, permit, or
license, city staff or official(s) may, upon the permission of the owner, enter
upon any public or private property and make an inspection thereof.
   L.   The fees for processing and review of all applications, permits, and
licenses required by this title, designed to recover the actual or anticipated
costs of review and processing of the application, shall be established by the
city council and amended from time to time as necessary. The fee schedule may
include an administrative processing fee and application fees, as applicable,
for the various applications, permits, and licenses required by this title.
Fees shall not be required for applications initiated by the planning
commission, city council, or planning and zoning administrator.
   M.   If an application is filed and determined complete by the planning and
zoning administrator prior to the adoption of this title, the previous
ordinance shall be in effect. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-16: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   The city council is hereby authorized to enter into development
agreements with any person or entity. The city council may require a
development agreement for any annexation application, rezone application,
subdivision of land, development, rehabilitation, reconstruction, or placement
of improvement upon any property for the purpose of any of the following:
      1.   Protecting the right of the citizenry to health, welfare, and
safety;
      2.   Addressing proposed projects, and the impacts of such projects,
which may not have been contemplated by this code;
      3.   Addressing issues of the density of developments when required to
balance competing interests;
      4.   Refining uses within the development in furtherance of the general
plan when considering neighboring properties;
      5.   Resolving issues regarding unique features or challenges confronting
development;
      6.   Protecting sensitive lands;
      7.   Protecting public properties and interests, both tangible and
intangible;
      8.   Clarifying the application of code requirements or city standards;
      9.   Ensuring adherence to the overall intent of this code; and
      10.   For any other purpose consistent herewith; or
      11.   When mutually agreed upon with the developer.
   B.   Through a development agreement, the planning commission may recommend
and the city council may approve modifications to the following types of
development standards for new development in the underlying zone:
      1.   Permitted exterior building materials.
      2.   Building height.
      3.   Minimum lot frontage.
      4.   Minimum yard requirements.
      5.   Up to a five percent (5%) modification to the minimum lot size,
provided that the modification does not result in an increase in density above
the maximum allowed density for the underlying zone.
   C.   Modifications to the development standards listed in subsection B of
this section may only be approved if the following conditions are met:
      1.   The granting of the modification will not adversely affect the
rights of adjacent landowners or residents;
      2.   The modification desired will not adversely affect the public
health, safety or general welfare; and
      3.   The granting of the modification will not be opposed to the general
spirit and intent of this title or the general plan. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
11-1-17: DETERMINATION FOR USES NOT LISTED AS PERMITTED OR CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Any use not listed as a permitted or conditional use in a zone
classification shall be prohibited.
   B.   Determination as to the classification of uses not specifically listed
in this title shall be made by the planning and zoning administrator and shall
be subject to appeal to the planning commission as set forth in section
11-1-12 of this chapter. The procedure shall be as follows:
      1.   A written request for such a determination shall be filed with the
planning and zoning administrator. The request shall include a detailed
description of the proposed use and such other information as may be required.
      2.   The planning and zoning administrator shall thereupon make such
investigations as deemed necessary to compare the nature and characteristics of
the proposed use with those of uses specifically listed in this title, and
shall make a determination of its classification based on these investigations.
      3.   The determination of the planning and zoning administrator shall be
rendered in writing within a reasonable time. The determination shall state the
zone classification in which the proposed use may be conditional or permitted,
as well as the findings which established that such use is of the same or
similar character as uses permitted in that zone classification. Upon making
this decision, the planning and zoning administrator shall notify the
applicant, city recorder, planning commission, and city council in writing of
the decision. Pursuant to section
11-1-3, table 11.1, "Land Use And Appeal Authority", of this chapter the time
period for appeals to the planning and zoning administrator's decision shall be
ten (10) calendar days. (Ord. 2009-17, 11-24-2009)
      4.   The determination and all information pertaining thereto shall be
assigned a file number classifying it as an administrative determination and
shall become a permanent public record. Such use shall become a permitted or
conditional use in the zone specified in the determination, and shall have the
same status as a permitted or conditional use specifically named in the
regulations of the zone classification. (Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
11-1-18: CLEARFIELD DEVELOPMENT, DESIGN, AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
The City Engineer, or a designee, is hereby authorized to draft, approve,
adopt, and interpret a set of Development, Design, and Construction Standards
for development, design, and construction activity approvals in Clearfield
City. Such guidelines and standards may be administratively amended from time
to time as determined necessary by the City Engineer. The standards shall be
based upon reasonable engineering standards and practices. Any appeal from a
standard imposed by the City Engineer shall follow the modification process as
outlined in Section 1.06 of the Development, Design, and Construction
Standards. At such future time that a significant design change is needed or
the Development, Design, and Construction Standards undertake a comprehensive
update, the changes shall follow the formal adoption process used for zoning
text amendments. (Ord. 2024-07, 4-23-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Enforcement
11-2-2: Planning And Zoning Administrator
11-2-3: Building Permits
11-2-4: Abatement Of Public Nuisances; Authority
11-2-5: Penalty
11-2-1: ENFORCEMENT:
All department officials and public employees of the city vested with the duty
or authority to issue permits shall conform to the provisions of this title and
shall issue no permit, certificate or license for uses, buildings or purposes
in conflict with the provisions of this title and any such permit, certificate
or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this title, intentionally
or otherwise, shall be null and void. It shall be the duty of the planning and
zoning administrator, building official, and the police chief (or their
designees) to enforce the provisions of this title pertaining to the erection,
construction, reconstruction, moving, conversion, alteration or addition to any
building or structure and the use of any land, building or premises. (Ord.
2009-18, 11-24-2009)
11-2-2: PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: An administrative official, to be known as the planning
and zoning administrator, shall administer and enforce this title. The planning
and zoning administrator may be provided with the assistance of such other
persons as the city manager may direct or authorize.
   B.   Violations Of Land Use Title: If the planning and zoning administrator
or designee finds that any of the provisions of this title are being violated,
he shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violation,
indicating the nature of the violation, and ordering the actions necessary to
correct it. He shall order discontinuance of illegal buildings or structures or
of illegal additions, alterations or structural changes; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take other action authorized by this title to
ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
   C.   Application Review: The planning and zoning administrator shall accept
all applications for items that are required by this title to be reviewed and
approved by staff, the planning commission, and/or city council. The planning
and zoning administrator shall review such applications when they are submitted
to see that all information and items required by this title are included in
the applications. The planning and zoning administrator shall not place any
application on the applicable agenda until all items required have been
submitted or are omitted for good cause. When all items and information
required have been submitted, the planning and zoning administrator shall
schedule the application on the agenda. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-24-2009)
11-2-3: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No building or structure shall be constructed,
reconstructed, altered, remodeled, moved or demolished without a permit issued
by the city.
   B.   Application: Applications for building permits shall be made to the
building official. All applications shall be accompanied by plans showing
information required by the city.
   C.   Permits To Comply With This Title: All building permits shall be
reviewed by the building official and planning and zoning administrator for
compliance with this title before being issued. No permit shall be issued
unless and until the contemplated action is in compliance with the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
11-2-4: ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES; AUTHORITY 1 :
Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed or altered, enlarged,
converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of this title, and
any use of land, building or premises established, shall be and the same hereby
is declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city attorney shall
immediately commence action or proceedings for the abatement and removal and
enjoinment of any such unlawful structure or use in the manner provided by law
and shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court as may have
jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate and remove such building or
structure, and restrain and enjoin any person from setting up, erecting,
building, maintaining or using any such building or structure or using property
contrary to the provisions of this title. The remedies provided for herein
shall be cumulative and not exclusive. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 1 of this code.
11-2-5: PENALTY:
The city has sole discretion in deciding whether to pursue administrative,
civil or criminal remedies for any violation of the provisions of this title.
Any person violating or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this
title, or failing or refusing to do some act required under this title, shall
be guilty of a class C misdemeanor. In addition to any administrative, civil,
or criminal penalties, any person found in violation of this title may be
subject to payment of costs associated with enforcement of this title,
including, but not limited to, attorney fees. (Ord. 2009-18, 11-24-2009; amd.
Ord. 2020-06, 2-25-2020)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Purpose
11-3-2: Construction Of Words
11-3-3: Terms Defined
11-3-1: PURPOSE:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms that are found herein
shall be defined as found in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-19, 11-24-2009)
11-3-2: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
As they are defined in this chapter, words used in the present tense shall also
include the future tense; words in the singular number shall also include the
plural, and the plural the singular; words not included herein but which are
defined in any adopted building codes, shall be as defined therein. The word
"shall" means mandatory. (Ord. 2009-19, 11-24-2009)
11-3-3: TERMS DEFINED:
ABANDONED, ABANDONMENT: A use, structure or object shall be deemed abandoned
when that use, structure or object has not been used, maintained or practiced
for a continuous period of twelve (12) months.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building or structure in which the use is incidental to
and subordinate to that of the main building or structure. An accessory
building shall not be used as a dwelling. Accessory buildings shall be
permitted in all zones, subject to the regulations set forth in this title.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the prescribed
permitted use within any respective zoning provisions.
AGRICULTURAL RECREATION: Leisurely activities involving crops or farm animals,
such as corn mazes, horseback riding, or competitive activities such as rodeos.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening, the keeping and raising of farm animals or fowl. This definition
shall not include any agricultural industry or business such as fruit packing
plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare for the use of pedestrians and vehicles which
affords, or is designated or intended to afford, a secondary means of access to
abutting properties.
AMUSEMENT OR RECREATION FACILITY: A building or structure, or portion thereof,
where indoor or outdoor amusement or recreation activities are held.
ANIMAL UNIT: The keeping of not more than the following number of domestic
animals:
   A.   One head of horses or cattle, or animal of similar size; or
   B.   Two (2) head of pigs or sheep, or animals of similar size; or
   C.   Eight (8) head of rabbits or other noncarnivorous animals of similar
size.
APARTMENT: A rented room or a suite of two (2) or more rented rooms designated
for, or intended for, or occupied by one family for living and sleeping
purposes.
APIARY: Any place where one or more colonies of honeybees are located.
AREA: The aggregate of the maximum horizontal cross section with given
boundaries.
ARENA: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the gathering of
persons for the purpose of viewing or participating in athletic events.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A congregate residential facility for elderly
persons, having physical or mental limitations, who receive assistance with
activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living (ADLs or
IADLs). The facility is licensed with the State of Utah as a Type II facility
and provides services that may include but are not limited to meals, laundry,
housekeeping, medication reminders and/or administration of medication,
intermittent nursing care, transportation, social/recreational activities,
hairdressing, and other services allowed by the state license. The occupants
are generally capable of responding to an emergency situation without physical
assistance from staff. An assisted living facility may be comprised of one or
more buildings on a single site or contiguous parcels and is limited to a
maximum height of two stories. This definition shall not include any building
or structure which meets the definition of a “group home for the elderly”,
“group home for persons with a disability”, or “detention or rehabilitation
facility”.
AUDITORIUM: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the gathering
of persons for purposes such as civic, social or religious functions.
AUTOMOBILE RECYCLING: Any activity that involves obtaining or storing scrap
vehicles and/or parts for the purpose of recycling the parts, selling the
vehicles or parts, using those parts to repair vehicles, or recycling the
vehicle for the purpose of recovering raw materials.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: Any activity that involves the repair of any passenger auto,
pickup truck, trailer, semitrailer, recreational vehicle or other vehicle where
the repair includes, but is not limited to, bodywork and collision repair; the
rebuilding of engines, transmissions, or differentials; electrostatic or air
gun spray painting of vehicles; inspections; tune ups; oil changes; glass,
tire, or brake work; or similar repairs.
BAKERY: A building or structure, or portion thereof, where items of food are
baked or sold.
BARN: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticulture products. This
structure shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of employment.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. A basement shall be counted as
a story for height measurement where more than one-half (1/2) of its height is
above the average level of the adjoining ground or where more than three-
fourths (3/4) of any wall is above the level of the adjoining ground.
BEEKEEPER: A person who owns one or more colonies of honeybees for the purpose
of: a) collecting honey and beeswax, b) pollinating crops, or c) producing bees
for sale to other beekeepers.
BEEKEEPING: The maintenance of honeybee colonies, commonly in hives, in order
to collect and sell honey and beeswax, or to produce bees for sale or to
pollinate crops.
BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT: Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such as, but
not limited to, hive bodies, supers, frames, top and bottom boards, and
extractors.
BEHAVIOR, DRUG, OR ALCOHOL TREATMENT FACILITY: A building or structure, or
portion thereof, used for the treatment of persons with behavioral
dysfunctions, impairments, or drug or alcohol dependencies less than twenty
four (24) hours per day. This definition shall exclude detention or
rehabilitation facilities. Sleeping rooms or any type of residential occupancy
shall not be allowed.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, intended
or used for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any person, animal, chattel,
or property of any kind.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of
the finished grade of the front yard to the highest point of the roof. Those
structures set forth in section
11-13-11 of this title shall be excluded from said measurement.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to the front lot line at a distance equal to the
required setback of the zone and extending across the whole width of the lot.
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building on a lot or building site designed or
used to accommodate the primary use to which the premises is devoted. Where a
permissible use involves more than one structure designed or used for the
primary purpose, as in the case of apartment groups, each such permitted
building on one lot shall be construed to be a main building.
BUSINESS: All activities, together with any devices, machines or vehicles used
therein, for the purpose of gain or economic profit.
BUSINESS SERVICES: Uses which primarily serve the daily needs of the business
or professional community, such as banks, business and office supply stores,
copy centers, civic administration, employment services and so on.
CARPORT: A covered automobile parking space, open on at least two (2) sides
(except for necessary supporting columns and customary architectural features),
and in which no business for profit is conducted. For the purposes of this
title, a carport shall be subject to all regulations prescribed for a private
garage except as otherwise provided.
CEMETERY: A parcel of land used for the burial of deceased persons.
CHECK CASHING: Cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred
deposit loan.
CHURCH: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the performance
of religious services.
CLUBS AND LODGES: Includes chartered nonprofit social clubs or lodges with or
without dining facilities composing a branch of a fraternal order, or society
such as Elks, Masons, American Legion, Eagles, Optimists, Odd Fellows, Kiwanis,
Rotary and other similar nonprofit organizations and is open only to members
and their duly authorized guests. This definition shall exclude taverns.
COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for
educational instruction above the twelfth grade.
COLONY: Honeybees in any hive including queens, workers, drones or brood.
CONDOMINIUM: A structure consisting of two (2) or more units, each under
individual ownership, but each subject to certain joint agreements and
covenants.
CONVALESCENT FACILITY: A building or structure, or portion thereof, in which
people are cared for during the time of recovery from an operation, injury, or
physical illness. The facility may also contain areas for physical therapy.
This definition shall not include any building or structure which meets the
definition of a "group home for the elderly", "group home for persons with a
disability", or "detention or rehabilitation facility".
CONVENIENCE STORE: A place of retail business primarily engaged in the sale of
food or drink for consumption either on or off premises and/or the retail sale
of motor fuel from pumps on the site.
COURTYARD: An unoccupied space on the lots, other than a required yard,
designed to be partially surrounded by a building or group of buildings.
DAYCARE FACILITY: A commercial building or structure, or portion thereof,
occupied by persons of any age who receive custodial care for less than twenty
four (24) hours a day by individuals in a place other than the home of the
person cared for.
DAYCARE, RESIDENTIAL: Any noncommercial, privately owned and occupied residence
being used for the caring of more than four (4), but less than twelve (12)
children, including the owner/resident's children under the age of four (4)
years, for less than twenty four (24) hours per day. Each child care provider
shall be eighteen (18) years of age or older. No more than four (4) children
under the age of two (2) may be cared for.
DENSITY: The number of dwellings per acre of land.
DETENTION OR REHABILITATION FACILITY: A building or structure, or portion
thereof, in which people are cared for or live in a supervised environment,
having been detained for penal or correctional purposes and in which the
liberty of the occupants is restricted. This definition includes any
residential facility where persons are treated for alcoholism, mental illness
or substance abuse in lieu of confinement, rehabilitation or treatment in a
custodial or correctional facility.
DISTRIBUTION, LIMITED: A building or structure, or portion thereof, in which
goods, raw materials or commodities are stored, sold wholesale, or shipped to
consumers and businesses within a single structure not more than thirty
thousand (30,000) square feet in size on one parcel of land.
DRY CLEANING FACILITY: An establishment where clothes or fabrics are cleaned
with a chemical solvent.
DWELLING: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the residential
occupancy of one family, providing complete independent living facilities,
including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: Three (3) or more attached dwelling units in any
configuration.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: One detached dwelling unit. Each single-family
dwelling shall be built on a separate lot.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: Two (2) attached dwelling units.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person who is sixty (60) years of age or older, who desires
or needs to live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is
capable of living independently.
FACILITY: All or any portion of a building, structure, or site improvement.
FAMILY: Shall include the following:
   A.   The head of household and all persons related to the head of household
by blood, marriage, legal guardianship, or adoption as a parent, child,
sibling, grandparent or legal guardian, living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit. Such spouse, parent, child, sibling,
grandparent or guardian must actually reside in the subject dwelling; or
   B.   Up to three (3) unrelated persons, with or without children, living
together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
FARM ANIMALS: Domestic animals typically found on a farm, such as horses,
mules, cattle, pigs, goats, sheep, llamas and fowl.
FIREWORKS STAND: A mobile or temporary stand or trailer used for the retail
sale of Class C fireworks. Fireworks stands shall be subject to the regulations
set forth in chapter 13 of this title.
FLAG LOT: A concept of lot design as explained in section
11-13-9 of this title.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of a
building, excluding carports, porches, attached garages, breezeways, patios and
cellars as defined by the currently adopted building code.
FLYWAY AREA: An area surrounding the hive, five feet (5') from the property
line, consisting of a solid wall, fence, dense foliage or a combination thereof
extending at least ten feet (10') beyond the hive in each direction to force
bees to fly no less than six feet (6') above ground level over property lines
in the vicinity of the apiary.
FOWL UNIT: The keeping of not more than thirty (30) chickens, pheasants,
pigeons, ducks, geese or turkeys.
FRONTAGE: The side of a lot or parcel adjacent to a public or private street.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the main
building, designed and/or used only for the shelter or storage of vehicles
owned or operated by the occupants of the main building, and in which no
business for profit is conducted without prior approval of a conditional use
permit by the planning commission.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any structure, except those described as private garages, used
for the storage or care of vehicles or where any such vehicles are equipped for
operation, are repaired or are kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
GRADE: The elevation of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building or structure.
GREENHOUSE: A structure in which plants that need heat, light and protection
from the weather are grown. Greenhouse includes the retail sales of nursery
plants and related items.
GROUP HOME FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY: A dwelling in which eight (8) or
fewer unrelated persons, exclusive of staff, having physical or mental
disabilities or impairments are cared for or live in a supervised environment.
GROUP HOME FOR THE ELDERLY: A dwelling in which eight (8) or fewer unrelated
elderly persons, exclusive of staff, are cared for or live in a supervised
environment. The residents may or may not have a physical or mental impairment
because of age. A group home for the elderly shall be owned by one of the
residents or by an immediate family member of one of the residents or be a
facility for which title has been placed in trust for a resident.
HISTORIC BUILDING: Any building listed on the national register of historic
places or the Utah state register of historic sites.
HIVE: Shall have the meaning set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 4, chapter
11. This defines a hive as a frame hive, box hive, box, barrel, log, gum skep,
or other artificial or natural receptacle which may be used to house honeybees.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any income producing use conducted entirely within a dwelling
unit and carried on only by persons residing in the dwelling unit, which use is
clearly incidental, secondary and compatible to the residential use of the
building. In general, a home occupation is an accessory use so located and
conducted, that the average neighbor, under normal conditions, would be unaware
of its existence. A home occupation shall require a general business license in
accordance with the provisions contained in title 4 of this code.
HONEYBEE OR BEE(S): The common honeybee, Apis mellifera species, at any stage
of development, but not including the African honeybee, Apis mellifera
scutellata species, or any hybrid thereof.
HOOKAH LOUNGE: A commercial building or structure where patrons use tobacco
products from a hookah, nargile, or other waterpipe.
HOSPITAL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used primarily for the
medical or surgical care of persons for a period in excess of twenty four (24)
hours.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, containing
sleeping rooms designed for temporary use by occupants who are transient in
nature. The rooms may or may not have kitchenettes. A hotel or motel may also
contain an on site caretaker's residence, gift shop, restaurant, bar, pool,
exercise areas, meeting rooms, or any amenities for the convenience of the
occupants.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Domestic animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and
kept for company or pleasure and not for profit, such as dogs, cats, rabbits,
canaries, and other small animals ordinarily found in a pet store, but not
including a sufficient number of dogs to constitute a kennel. Household pets
shall not include any animals or fowl commonly regarded as farm animals.
Household pets shall be permitted in all dwellings, subject to the provisions
of title 6 of this code. The number of rabbits shall not exceed two (2) per
dwelling.
JUNKYARD: Any lot, land or area used for the storage, keeping, dismantling or
abandonment of junk, nuisance vehicles, household furniture and appliances,
machinery, scrap material or parts thereof. Any more than two (2) such items on
one property constitutes a junkyard.
KENNEL: A place where three (3) or more dogs of four (4) months of age or older
are kept.
KITCHEN: Any room and/or other place used, or intended or designed to be used
for cooking, or for the preparation of food.
LABORATORY: A building or structure, or portion thereof, that provides
controlled conditions in which scientific research, experiments, and
measurements are performed.
LANDSCAPE SUPPLY YARD: A commercial building, structure, or site used for the
sale, temporary storage, mixing, processing, composting, or distribution of
landscape products, including, but not limited to, soils, rocks, concrete,
vegetation and other similar materials.
LIBRARY: A building or structure that houses a collection of books or similar
materials kept for reference or borrowing.
LOT: A piece of real property shown as a delineated plot of land with a number
and designation, and recorded in the office of the county recorder of Davis
County.
LOT AREA: The total area measured on a horizontal plane, included within the
lot or parcel of land.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets,
which streets shall have an angle of intersection of not more than one hundred
thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE: The total horizontal area of a lot, parcel or building site
covered by any building or occupied structure which extends above the surface
of the ground level, including any covered automobile parking spaces, covered
patios, walkways, recreation areas and anything else covered by a roof.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal length of a straight line connecting the bisecting
points of the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
LOT LINE, FRONT: A line separating an interior lot from a street. In the case
of a corner lot, the side bordering the street which the house is facing shall
be the front lot line.
LOT LINE, REAR: The recorded lot line or lines most distant from and generally
opposite the front lot line, except that in the case of an interior triangular
or gore shaped lot, it shall mean a straight line ten feet (10') in length
which is:
   A.   Parallel to the front lot line or its chord; and
   B.   Intersects the two (2) other lot lines at points most distant from the
front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot boundary line which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The distance across a lot or parcel of property measured at the
front setback line.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the federal home construction and safety
standards act of 1974 (HUD code), in one or more sections, which, in the
traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet
or more in length, or when erected on site, is four hundred (400) or more
square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used
as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
electrical systems. A manufactured home shall be a single-family dwelling.
MANUFACTURING: The assembling, altering, converting, fabricating, finishing,
processing, or treatment of a product.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: The assembling, altering, converting, fabricating,
finishing, processing, or treatment of a product, where all processes take
place wholly within a single enclosed building of not more than thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet in size in one parcel of land, and the use does not
create, produce, or result in external noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt,
debris, plant materials, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat, glare,
electromagnetic disturbances, or radiation.
MEDICAL CLINIC: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used primarily for
the medical, dental, or surgical care of persons for less than a twenty four
(24) hour period.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: A person or entity engaged in selling food for a temporary
period of time from a temporary location or mobile structure. Mobile food
vendors participating in a city sponsored event or activity shall be permitted
in any land use zone. Mobile food vendors shall be subject to additional
regulations set forth in chapter 13 of this title.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit built prior to June 15,
1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code which existed prior to the
federal manufactured housing and safety standards act (HUD code). A mobile home
shall be a single-family dwelling.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A site for which the occupation of mobile homes, manufactured
homes, and modular homes has been approved by the city.
MODULAR HOME OR BUILDING: A home or other building of new construction without
attached axles or wheels which has been assembled fully or in part upon another
site or in a factory and moved to the site upon which it is to be permanently
assembled by truck, timber, dolly or similar conveyance, and which is placed
upon a permanent foundation in compliance with the provisions of the currently
adopted building code. A modular home shall be a single-family dwelling.
MORTUARY: A building or structure, or portion thereof, in which the bodies of
deceased persons are kept until they are buried or cremated. A mortuary may
also include an on site caretaker's residence.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel Or Motel.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A self-propelled vehicle intended primarily for use and
operation on the highways. Motor vehicle does not include an off highway
vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE SALES: The retail sale of a motor vehicle from a commercial
building or lot.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
MUSEUM: A building or structure used for collecting and displaying objects
having scientific or historical or artistic value.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure, or portion
thereof, that: a) legally existed before its current land use designation; and
b) because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
conform to the setback, height restrictions, or other regulations, excluding
those regulations which govern the use of land.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which: a) legally existed before its current land use
designation; b) has been maintained continuously since the time the land use
ordinance governing the land changed; and c) because of one or more subsequent
land use ordinance changes, does not conform to the regulations that now govern
the use of the land.
NONDEPOSITORY LENDING ESTABLISHMENT: Any business or financial institution
subject to regulation by the state of Utah department of financial
institutions, which does not take deposits. These include, but are not limited
to, payday lenders, title lenders, check cashers, and deferred deposit loan
lenders as set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 7, chapters 23 and 24.
Nondepository lending establishments shall be subject to additional regulations
set forth in chapter 13 of this title.
NURSING OR REST HOME: A building or structure, or portion thereof, in which
people are cared for or live in a supervised environment, having physical or
mental limitations because of health or age. The occupants are not capable of
responding to an emergency situation without physical assistance from staff.
This definition shall not include any building or structure which meets the
definition of a "group home for the elderly", "group home for persons with a
disability", or "detention or rehabilitation facility".
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any snowmobile, all-terrain type I vehicle, all-terrain
type II vehicle, or motorcycle, as such terms are defined by Utah Code
Annotated title 41.
OFFICES: A building, room or department wherein a business or service for
others is transacted but not including storage or sale of merchandise on the
premises.
OPEN SPACE: An area which is completely free and unobstructed from any building
or structure. Landscaping, walkways, covered patios, light poles and other
ornamental features shall not be considered obstructions for the purposes of
this definition. Areas used for storm drainage shall not be eligible for
inclusion in a required open space area. Utility corridors shall only be
counted toward the open space requirement if improved as an accessible amenity
to the project or the community as a whole. All open space shall be landscaped
in accordance with the requirements of chapter 21 of this title.
OUTDOOR STORAGE: The commercial storage or keeping of building materials,
equipment, fuels, vehicles, goods, commodities or raw materials outside of a
building or structure. Outdoor storage shall be subject to the regulations set
forth in section
11-13-12 of this title.
PARCEL: A portion of land, the dimensions or boundaries of which are defined by
a record of survey map recorded in the office of the county recorder of Davis
County in accordance with the law regulating the division of said land, or a
tract of real property not delineated as described above, containing not less
than the prescribed minimum area required in the zone in which it is located
and which abuts at least one public street or private street which the planning
commission has designated adequate for access purposes and is held under one
ownership.
PARKING AREA: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the parking
of more than five (5) motor vehicles, whether free, for compensation or as an
accommodation. This definition of "parking area" is not intended to be used
throughout this title as either a permitted or conditional use, but rather
serves as a more general reference to locations, lots and facilities, whether
public or private, where vehicles can be lawfully parked.
PARKING FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: A garage or parking lot used for commercial
purposes and open to the public for a fee. Vehicles may not be parked for more
than five (5) consecutive days in such facilities. Parking must meet the
minimum requirements of chapter 14 of this title.
PARKING LOT: An area where motor vehicles can be placed and left temporarily.
Parking lots are only allowed as an accessory use to a specific primary use or
building on the same parcel. The primary use/building and its accessory parking
must be entirely located within Clearfield City. Parking must meet the minimum
requirements of chapter 14 of this title.
PARKING LOT, STAND ALONE: An area where motor vehicles can be placed and left
temporarily as the primary use on a parcel. Parking must meet the minimum
requirements of chapter 14 of this title.
PARKING SPACE: A permanently surfaced area of not less than nine feet by twenty
feet (9' x 20'), exclusive of access or maneuvering area, ramps or columns, to
be used exclusively as temporary storage space for one private motor vehicle.
PARKING SPACE, COMPACT: A permanent surfaced area of not less than eight feet
six inches by eighteen feet (8'6" x 18'), exclusive of access or maneuvering
area, ramps or columns, to be used exclusively as temporary storage space for
one private, compact motor vehicle.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A structure or building where motor vehicles can be placed
and left temporarily. Parking structures are only allowed as an accessory use
to a specific primary use or building on the same parcel. The primary use/
building and its accessory parking must be entirely located within Clearfield
City. Parking must meet the minimum requirements of chapter 14 of this title.
PAWN AND SECONDHAND BUSINESS: Shall have the meaning set forth in Utah Code
Annotated title 13, chapter 32a. This definition does not include businesses
which acquire secondhand goods or merchandise exclusively by donation, or deal
solely with consignment or solely in the purchasing, bartering, exchanging or
selling of used motor vehicles or trailers.
PERSON: An individual, an association, a firm, a copartnership, a corporation
or any similar legal entity.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Uses which primarily serve the daily convenience needs of
individuals, such as bakeries, drugstores, newspaper and magazine stores, gift
stores, banks, beauty and barber services, laundry and dry cleaning and so on.
PET GROOMING FACILITY: A building or structure or portion thereof where pets
are cleaned and groomed. No veterinary services are provided and animals do not
stay overnight.
PHYSICAL THERAPY FACILITY: A building or structure, or portion thereof, in
which people receive training, treatment, or therapy to help them recover from
a physical problem. No overnight or residential use of a physical therapy
facility shall be permitted. This definition shall not include any building or
structure which meets the definition of a "group home for the elderly", "group
home for persons with a disability", or "detention or rehabilitation facility".
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the city of Clearfield, as duly
appointed under the provision of state law.
PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER: A movable weather resistant container fabricated
for the purpose of transporting freight or goods on a truck, railroad or ship,
including cargo containers, shipping containers, storage units or other
portable structures, which are placed on private property and used for storage
of items, including, but not limited to, clothing, equipment, goods, household
or office fixtures or furnishings, materials and merchandise. This definition
shall not include accessory buildings or a building approved for construction.
Portable storage containers shall be subject to the regulations set forth in
section
11-13-27 of this title.
PRESCHOOL, COMMERCIAL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used
commercially for teaching children below the age at which compulsory school
begins.
PRESCHOOL, RESIDENTIAL: Any privately owned and occupied residence furnishing
educational guidance for no more than eleven (11) children per class, with no
more than two (2) classes per day, for a maximum of four (4) hours per class.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: See definition of Building, Main.
PRODUCE SALES: The exchange of farm or garden goods for money or other
commodities or services.
PROJECT AREA: The gross area of a land use development, inclusive of all lots
and parcels to be developed.
PUBLIC USE: A use or facility owned and/or operated exclusively by a public
body, having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general
welfare. Government owned buildings and other similar uses, such as libraries
and museums, shall be considered public uses.
PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY: A building or structure used for the provision of
public utilities.
PUBLIC WORKS FACILITY: Any publicly owned and/or operated facility meant for
the physical functions of a public entity, including construction operations,
maintenance, and the storage of vehicles, equipment, and materials.
RESTAURANT: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the
preparation and/or consumption of food and/or drink. This structure may or may
not have on site seating.
RETAIL STORE: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the
storage, display or sale of goods, wares or merchandise to the public.
RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS: As defined in section
4-10-3 of this code.
SALE, YARD OR GARAGE: The selling of new or used goods, wares, or merchandise
from a garage, carport, or yard. No yard or garage sale shall exceed forty
eight (48) hours in duration. There shall be no more than two (2) yard or
garage sales at any one property or residence within the city in any twelve
(12) month period.
SCHOOL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for teaching academic
subjects from kindergarten through the twelfth grade.
SEMITRAILER: A vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and constructed so that some
part of its weight and its load rests or is carried by another vehicle.
SETBACK: The distance between a building or structure and the adjacent property
line or designated right of way at the closest points, excluding uncovered
patios, decks, and balconies not greater than two feet (2') in height from
grade, and chimney and roof overhangs protruding no greater than two feet (2')
into the setback area.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any "nude entertainment business", sexually
oriented outcall service, "adult business", seminude dancing bar, or seminude
dancing agency, as defined in title 4, chapter 4 of this code.
SIGN: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by which
anything is made known, such as are used to designate a firm, an association, a
corporation, a profession, a business, a service or commodity, a product, or
any type of publicity or propaganda, whether placed on the ground, rocks,
trees, stumps or other natural objects, or on a building, wall, roof, frame,
support, fence or other manmade object, which are visible from any street,
public highway or public road right of way. For purpose of this title, the term
"sign" does not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state,
city or other political unit, or of a nonprofit organization. It shall not
include any official notice issued by any court or public body, or officer, or
directional, warning or information sign, or structure required or authorized
as a nonprofit organization.
SPECIALIZED SCHOOL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for
educational instruction devoted to a particular subject.
STORAGE FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used
for the purpose of renting or leasing individual storage spaces to customers
for the purpose of storing and removing personal property on a self-serving
basis. Retail sales of any kind shall be prohibited at a commercial storage
facility. A commercial storage facility may also contain an on site caretaker's
residence.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a basement, included between the
surface of any floor and surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no
floor above it, then the space between such floor and the ceiling above it.
STREET: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated to the public and accepted by
proper public authority, or a thoroughfare by right of use and which affords
the principal means of access to abutting property; provided, that easements,
walkways and alleys shall not be considered as streets for the purpose of this
title.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders and floor joists, or roof
joists.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, built, erected or put together which is either
located on the ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
This includes, but is not limited to, signs, streetlights, parking slab covers,
patio covers, porch covers, decks, balconies and sheds.
SWAP MEET: Property where owner or lessee rents, lends or leases the premises
to multiple persons for use as an indoor open marketplace (without separate
suites, offices or rooms) to barter, exchange or sell goods. A flea market
shall be considered a swap meet. Yard sales and garage sales at residences are
not swap meets.
TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT: Any business that is engaged primarily
in the practice of physical body adornment, which includes, but is not limited
to, the following techniques: body piercing, tattooing, permanent cosmetics,
branding, and scarification. This definition does not include practices that
are considered medical procedures by the state medical board, such as implants
under the skin, which shall not be performed by a tattoo or body piercing
establishment. Tattoo or body piercing establishments shall be subject to
additional regulations set forth in chapter 13 of this title.
TAVERN: Any business establishment that is engaged primarily in the sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the establishment's premises; tavern
includes the following if the revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages
exceeds the revenue from the sale of food, although food need not be sold in
the establishment: a beer bar; a parlor; a lounge; a cabaret; a private club,
or a nightclub. Tavern also includes any business with an area or areas for the
consumption of alcoholic beverages in which no minors under the age of twenty
one (21) are allowed. Taverns shall be subject to additional regulations found
in title 4 of this code.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOT: That area set aside for construction and placement of
telecommunications equipment, including any buildings, towers, antennas or
other apparatus not housed in a residential or business building. A lot set
aside for telecommunications equipment and tower may differ from the official
recorded piece of property and will include any required equipment, accessories
or fenced area.
TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL MERCHANT: A person who sells any nonfood product (i.e.,
flowers, Christmas trees, handcrafted items, etc.) at a temporary location for
a temporary period of time. Temporary or seasonal merchants participating in a
city sponsored event or activity shall be permitted in any land use zone.
Temporary or seasonal merchants shall be subject to additional regulations set
forth in chapter 13 of this title.
THEATER: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the production
and viewing of the performing arts or motion pictures.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and constructed so that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRANSIENT: Occupancy of a dwelling or sleeping unit for not more than thirty
(30) consecutive days.
USE: The purpose for which premises or a building thereon is designed,
arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Use.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use or occupancy of a building, or use of land, permitted
only when authorized upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to
the limitations and conditions specified therein as provided in chapter 4 of
this title, intended to allow compatible integration of uses which may be
suitable only in certain locations within a particular zone, or only upon
certain conditions and/or design criteria being achieved.
USE, PERMITTED: A use or occupancy of a building, or use of land, permitted by
right in the zone in which it is located.
VEHICLE: A motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, off highway vehicle,
manufactured home, or mobile home.
VETERINARY SERVICE: An establishment for the care, treatment, and grooming of
animals, including household pets, livestock and commercial poultry. All
facilities are to be within completely enclosed buildings, except exercising
runs.
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING FACILITIES: A place where instruction is
given to individuals in vocational and technical training and operated as a
commercial enterprise as distinguished from schools endowed and/or supported by
taxation.
WAREHOUSE: A building or structure, or portion thereof, in which goods, raw
materials or commodities are stored or sold wholesale.
YARD: A space on a lot or parcel, other than a courtyard, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward by buildings, except as otherwise provided
in this title. No required yard or setback area for any building or lot
required for the purposes of complying with this title shall be considered as
providing the required yard or setback for any other building or lot.
YARD, FRONT: An area extending across the full width of a lot or parcel, having
at no point a depth of less than the minimum required horizontal distance
between the front lot line or its tangent, and the closest permissible location
of the main building. Said distance shall be measured by a line at right angles
to the front lot line, or its tangent.
YARD, REAR: A space extending across the full width of a lot or parcel between
the rear building line and rear lot line. The depth of the rear yard is the
minimum distance required by this title between the rear lot line and rear
building line.
YARD, SIDE: An area between the main building and the side lot line extending
from the required front yard or the front line where no front yard is required,
to the rear yard, the width of which side yard shall be measured horizontally
from and at right angles to the nearest point on the side lot line toward the
nearest part of the main building.
ZERO LOT LINE DWELLINGS: Single-family dwellings arranged on lots with one side
wall of the building located at the property line.
ZONE: A portion of the incorporated territory of Clearfield City which has been
given a zone designation, which provides for certain yards and open spaces and
certain height and other limitations for buildings and which provides for
certain uses. (Ord. 2009-13, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2009-19, 11-24-2009; Ord.
2010-05, 1-26-2010; Ord. 2010-08, 6-22-2010; Ord. 2010-16, 9-28-2010; Ord.
2010-18, 11-9-2010; Ord. 2012-01, 1-24-2012; Ord. 2012-03, 6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-
2012; Ord. 2012-07, 8-14-2012, eff. 9-1-2012; Ord. 2013-02, 2-12-2013; Ord.
2014-09, 4-22-2014; Ord. 2014-16, 7-8-2014; Ord. 2014-30, 12-9-2014; Ord. 2015-
01, 2-24-2015; Ord. 2015-13, 7-28-2015; Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016; Ord. 2018-24,
10-23-2018; Ord. 2021-09, 6-22-2021; Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022; Ord. 2024-06, 4-
23-2024)
CHAPTER 4
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose
11-4-2: Required
11-4-3: Procedures
11-4-4: Application Review Procedure
11-4-5: Conditions And Requirements
11-4-6: Expiration Of Permit
11-4-7: Revocation; Conditions
11-4-8: Appeal
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a conditional use permit is to allow a land use that, because of
its unique characteristics or potential impact on the Municipality, surrounding
neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may be compatible only if certain conditions
are required that mitigate the detrimental impacts. This chapter governs the
process by which all new and existing conditional uses are reviewed; the review
process for permitted uses is outlined in chapter 5 of this title. As outlined
in Utah State Code section 10-9a-507, the Land Use Authority shall approve a
conditional use if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to
mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the
proposal or imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
applicable standards, the Land Use Authority may deny the conditional use.
Review of a conditional use permit by the Land Use Authority is an
administrative action. (Ord. 2018-21, 10-23-2018)
11-4-2: REQUIRED:
A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional
uses in the zone regulations or as elsewhere in this title. The conditional use
permit review shall include the review of all applicable plans and documents as
listed on the official conditional use permit checklist. All new construction
of conditional uses shall be processed as a conditional use permit. A
conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with conditions
precedent to the original approval of the permit. (Ord. 2018-21, 10-23-2018)
11-4-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: Application for a conditional use permit shall be made in
writing on forms prepared by the Planning and Zoning Administrator by the
property owner or registered agent. Upon receipt of a complete application, the
Planning and Zoning Administrator shall schedule the application for
consideration by the Planning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Administrator
shall not place any application on the Planning Commission agenda until all
items required by this title have been submitted or are omitted for good cause.
   B.   Information And Items Required: Detailed site plan, location,
landscaping, and building plans shall accompany an application for a
conditional use permit as outlined on the official conditional use permit
checklist and as appropriate. Information sufficient to demonstrate that the
general and specific requirements of this title will be met by the construction
and operation of the proposed building, structure or use shall be submitted
with the application.
   C.   Fee: The application for a conditional use permit shall be accompanied
by the appropriate fee, as set forth in the City's Consolidated Fee Schedule.
The required fee must be paid in full at the time the application is submitted.
(Ord. 2018-21, 10-23-2018)
11-4-4: APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Planning Commission Review: The Planning Commission shall review all
conditional use permit applications. The Planning Commission shall approve,
approve subject to compliance with such modifications or conditions as may be
deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter, or disapprove an
application as outlined in subsection D, "Determination", of this section.
(Ord. 2018-21, 10-23-2018)
   B.   Public Meeting; Notice: A public meeting shall be held by the Planning
Commission to review land use applications. Notification of the public meeting
shall be posted on the subject property. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-12-2019)
   C.   Considerations: The Land Use Authority may allow a conditional use to
be located in any zoning district in which the particular use is allowed as a
conditional use by this title. In authorizing any conditional use, the Land Use
Authority shall impose such requirements and conditions to mitigate the
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance
with the applicable standards provided in this chapter or elsewhere in this
title necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
welfare. The Land Use Authority shall determine the following:
      1.   At the specified location, is in harmony with the general intent and
purpose of the Clearfield City General Plan and the applicable zoning district
regulations;
      2.   Is necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which
will contribute to the general well-being of the community and the
neighborhood;
      3.   Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case,
be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the
vicinity; and
      4.   Conditions imposed by the Land Use Authority are based upon
ordinance standards outlined in this title or as otherwise determined to be
necessary by the City Engineer, building official, or any applicable State or
Federal agency according to adopted standards of those fields of expertise.
   D.   Determination: A conditional use permit shall be approved if conditions
are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance with the standards set
forth herein. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts or effects of
the proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated or eliminated by
the proposal or the imposition of conditions to achieve compliance with the
standards set forth herein, the conditional use permit may be denied. (Ord.
2018-21, 10-23-2018)
11-4-5: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for a conditional use permit shall conform to the requirements set
forth in this title. In addition, the Planning Commission may establish
conditions as outlined herein to meet the concerns of safety for persons and
neighborhood needs, performance and administration. More specifically, the
Planning Commission may require:
   A.   Setbacks: Increased setback and side yard distances from lot lines to
ensure the public safety and to ensure consistency with the intended
characteristics of the zone.
   B.   Screening: The screening of yards or other areas as protection from
obnoxious land uses and activities.
   C.   Removal Of Inconsistent Characteristics: The removal of structures,
debris or plant life inconsistent with the intended characteristics of the
zone.
   D.   Nuisance Relocation Or Fencing: The relocation, covering or fencing of
irrigation ditches, drainage channels and similar potential attractive
nuisances as determined by the Planning Commission.
   E.   Sight Distance Safety: The relocation of proposed or existing
structures as necessary to provide for future streets shown on the City's
general plan, adequate sight distances for general safety, or similar problems.
   F.   Facility Construction: Construction of water mains, sewer mains and
drainage facilities serving the proposed use, in sizes necessary to protect
existing utility users in the zone and to provide for an orderly development of
land.
   G.   Truck Loading And Unloading Facilities: The location, arrangement and
dimensions of truck loading and unloading facilities.
   H.   Outdoor Advertising: The number, location, color, size, height,
lighting and landscaping of outdoor advertising signs and structures in
relation to the creation of traffic hazards and appearance and harmony with
adjacent development.
   I.   Landscaping: Landscaping to ensure consistency with the intended
characteristics of the zone and compliance with current landscaping standards.
   J.   Screen Plantings: The location, height and materials of walls, fences,
hedges and screen plantings to ensure harmony with adjacent development or to
conceal storage areas, utility installations or other unsightly development.
   K.   Ground Cover: The planting of ground cover or installation of other
surfacing to prevent dust and erosion or contamination of the soil or
groundwater.
   L.   Retention Of Trees: The retention of existing healthy trees and
vegetation.
   M.   Curb And Gutter Construction: Construction of curbs, gutters, drainage
culverts, sidewalks, streets, fire hydrants and street lighting which serve the
property in question and which may compensate in part or in whole for possible
adverse impacts to the zone from the proposed conditional use.
   N.   Restructuring Of Land: Restructuring of the land and planting of the
same as directed by the Planning Commission when the conditional use involves
cutting and/or filling the land and where such land would be adversely affected
if not restructured.
   O.   Time Limits: Time limits on the validity of the conditional use permit,
and identification of times for regular review and monitoring, as determined
necessary, to ensure the use continues to operate in compliance with all
conditions and requirements of approval.
   P.   Bond: A bond or other valuable assurance in favor of the local
jurisdiction in an amount to be determined by the City Council. The amount of
said bond or other valuable assurance shall not exceed the amount calculated by
the developer's engineer and approved by the City Engineer as necessary to
assure compliance with all conditions.
   Q.   Plans Of Development: Specific long and short range plans of
development.
   R.   EPA And OSHA Standards: Certification and/or standards obtained and
furnished by the applicant indicating that the proposed conditional use will
meet and comply with standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency, by
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and by other applicable State
and Federal agencies.
   S.   Special Site Conditions: Limitations and/or restrictions on the use
and/or location of uses due to special site conditions, including, but not
limited to, geologically hazardous areas; floodplains; fault zones; landslide
areas; and sensitive areas due to soil capabilities, wildlife and plant life.
   T.   Population; Land Intensity: Population density and intensity of land
uses may be limited where land capability and/or vicinity relationships make it
appropriate to do so to protect health, safety and welfare.
   U.   Recreational Facilities: Provisions for or construction of recreational
facilities necessary to satisfy needs of the conditional use.
   V.   Floor Elevation And Grading Plans: Finished floor elevations and
grading plans to prevent or minimize water damage from flood levels as
determined by hydrology studies.
   W.   Hours Of Operation: The regulation of operating hours for activities
affecting normal schedules and functions.
   X.   Mitigation Of Possible Nuisance Factors: Measures directed at
minimizing or eliminating possible nuisance factors including, but not limited
to, noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, debris, plant materials, odors,
gases, noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and
radiation.
   Y.   Buildings, Structures, And Other Facilities: Mass, size, number,
location, design, exterior features, materials, and colors of buildings,
structures and other facilities.
   Z.   Site Circulation: Site circulation patterns for vehicular, pedestrian
and other traffic.
   AA.   Parking, Loading And Waste Areas: Design, location and amount of off
street parking, loading areas, and solid waste disposal and collection areas.
   BB.   Other Reasonable Conditions: Such other conditions determined
reasonable and necessary by the City to allow the operation of the proposed
conditional use, at the proposed location in compliance with the requirements
of this Code. (Ord. 2018-21, 10-23-2018)
11-4-6: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
A land use authorized by a conditional use permit must commence within one year
of the time the permit is issued. If the permit holder has not commenced action
under the permit within this time, the permit shall expire and the holder must
apply for a new permit. The Planning Commission may grant an extension for good
cause shown. Only one extension may be granted and the maximum extension shall
be for six (6) months. Applications for extension must be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Administrator in writing prior to the expiration of the
original permit. The application must describe the cause for requesting the
extension and be accompanied by the fee required by the City's fee schedule. A
public hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission for any application for
extension. (Ord. 2018-21, 10-23-2018)
11-4-7: REVOCATION; CONDITIONS:
A conditional use permit may be revoked by the Land Use Authority upon failure
of compliance with the conditions precedent to the original approval of the
permit or for any violation of this title occurring on the site for which the
conditional use permit was approved. Prior to the revocation of a conditional
use permit, the Land Use Authority shall hold a public hearing for the
consideration of the revocation. Notice of the meeting and the grounds for
consideration of revocation shall be mailed to the permittee at least ten (10)
days prior to the meeting. An appeal of the decision to revoke a conditional
use permit shall be filed, in writing, with the Land Use Appeal Authority
within thirty (30) days from the date of revocation. (Ord. 2018-21, 10-23-2018)
11-4-8: APPEAL:
All appeals to the provisions of this chapter shall be made in accordance with
section
11-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 2018-21, 10-23-2018)
CHAPTER 5
SITE PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
11-5-1: Purpose
11-5-2: Required
11-5-3: Exemptions
11-5-4: Application
11-5-5: Application Review Procedure
11-5-6: Issuance Of Permit
11-5-7: Expiration Of Approval; Extension
11-5-8: Appeal
11-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the site plan review process is to evaluate new development of
permitted uses and certain changes of use from one permitted use to another for
conformance with the standards of the Zoning Ordinance. The site plan review
process promotes the health and welfare of residents and business owners of
Clearfield City by allowing for a coordinated review of a development by
various City departments and applicable local agencies. A site plan review is
required for permitted uses only, whereas conditional uses shall be reviewed in
conformance with standards outlined in chapter 4 of this title. It is not the
purpose of this chapter that design should be so rigidly controlled so as to
stifle creativity or individual expression, or that substantial additional
expense be incurred; rather, it is the intent of this chapter that any controls
exercised be the minimum necessary to achieve the objectives as stated above.
(Ord. 2018-22, 10-23-2018)
11-5-2: REQUIRED:
   A.   New construction;
   B.   Changes of use within an existing building where there is an increase
in parking demand, unless the applicant can demonstrate that the site has
sufficient parking to meet the requirements of this Code;
   C.   Construction of drive-through windows;
   D.   Development of new parking lots greater than one thousand (1,000)
square feet in size;
   E.   Major changes to the site, including changes to parking and landscaping
layout;
   F.   Unusual circumstances or issues, as deemed necessary by the Community
Development Department. (Ord. 2018-22, 10-23-2018)
11-5-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following types of developments may proceed directly to business license or
building permit review without the need for site plan review:
   A.   Construction, expansion or remodel of a single-family home, duplex, or
accessory structures typically associated with a single-family home or duplex;
   B.   Expansions of five hundred (500) square feet or less to existing
conforming buildings provided the expansion is less than twenty five percent
(25%) of existing square footage of the building;
   C.   A change of use within an existing structure where there is no increase
in required parking or increase in traffic generation greater than one hundred
(100) average daily trips (ADT) or ten (10) peak hour trips;
   D.   Other permitted uses and development activities that have a minimal
impact on adjacent properties as determined by the Community Development
Department. (Ord. 2018-22, 10-23-2018)
11-5-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   Application: Application for site plan review shall be made in writing
by the property owner or their certified agent on forms prepared by the City
containing the minimum information and plans required for review as outlined on
the official site plan checklist. The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall
review the site plan application when it is submitted to see that all
information and items required by this title are included in the application.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall not perform an administrative site
plan review, or place any site plan on the Planning Commission agenda until all
items required have been submitted or are omitted for good cause.
   B.   Site Development Plans: Applications for site plan review shall be
accompanied by two (2) full size (24 inch x 36 inch) and two (2) half size (11
inch x 17 inch) paper copies of site development plans and/or architectural
drawings, and one electronic copy in a format approved by the City. All plans
shall be drawn to a standard scale (not smaller than 1 inch = 30 feet) and
stamped by a licensed landscape architect or civil engineer.
   C.   Fee: The application for site plan review shall be accompanied by the
appropriate fee, as set forth in the City's Consolidated Fee Schedule. The
required fee must be paid in full at the time the application is submitted.
   D.   Additional Information: The Planning and Zoning Administrator may
require additional information as deemed necessary by either himself/herself or
by other City departments or associated reviewing agencies. Examples of
additional information which may be requested include traffic reports,
environmental reports, geotechnical reports, and any other information
necessary to complete the review and make a recommendation to the local Land
Use Authority. (Ord. 2018-22, 10-23-2018)
11-5-5: APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Land Use Authority Review: The Land Use Authority shall review all site
plan applications, and shall determine if the proposed site development and
architectural plans are consistent with this chapter and with the purposes and
objectives of this title. The Land Use Authority shall approve, disapprove or
approve subject to compliance with such modifications or requirements as may be
deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   B.   Administrative Site Plan Review: The Zoning Administrator shall review
all site plans eligible for administrative review as part of the building
permit application process, or if a building permit is not required, review the
site plan and provide the response to the applicant. The Zoning Administrator's
determination that a site plan is eligible for administrative review shall be
reviewed by and is subject to the approval of his/her supervisor.
Administrative site plan reviews are subject to the review considerations as
outlined in subsection D of this section.
Site plans eligible for administrative review must meet at least two (2) of the
following criteria:
      1.   Additions up to ten thousand (10,000) square feet, or less than ten
percent (10%) of gross area of an existing building, whichever is less.
      2.   Exterior modifications to multi-family residential, institutional,
commercial, or industrial buildings that do not include additional residential
units, or changes to access from State highways or approvals from State or
Federal agencies.
      3.   Minor revisions to site plans previously approved by the Planning
Commission that meet the standards of the Zoning Code, will not expand,
intensify, or substantially change any approved site plan, landscape plan, or
structure, and are consistent with the intent of the original approval.
      4.   Exterior remodeling that affects color and materials, building
design, location of utilities or other mechanical equipment within an existing
or approved project that does not substantially change the appearance of the
site or its structure.
      5.   Changes in use requiring additional parking, where the proposed use
will not cause increased impacts on existing infrastructure and public
services, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, City Engineer, and Public
Works Department, and the use is proposed in existing structures.
   C.   Plans Ineligible For Administrative Review: Site plans not eligible for
administrative review shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
   D.   Review Considerations: The Land Use Authority shall consider the
following matters and others when applicable in their review of site plan
applications:
      1.   Traffic: The effect of the site development plan on traffic
conditions on abutting streets.
      2.   Vehicle; Pedestrian: The layout of the site with respect to
locations and dimensions of vehicular and pedestrian entrances, exits, drives
and walkways.
      3.   Off Street Parking: Compliance of off street parking facilities with
chapter 14 of this title.
      4.   Loading And Unloading Facilities: The location, arrangement and
dimensions of truck loading and unloading facilities.
      5.   Surfacing And Lighting; Parking: The surfacing and lighting of off
street parking.
      6.   Screen Planting: The location, height and materials of walls,
fences, hedges and screen planting.
      7.   Landscaping: The layout and appropriateness of landscaping.
      8.   Drainage: The effect of the site development plan on City stormwater
drainage systems.
      9.   Utility: The effect of the site development plan on City utility
systems.
      10.   Building Locations: Consideration of building locations on the
site, elevations and relation to surrounding areas.
      11.   Exterior Design: Consideration of exterior design in relation to
adjoining structures and area character to assure compatibility with other
structures in the neighborhood, existing or intended.
      12.   Signs: Compliance of signs with chapter 15 of this title and
particular consideration to the location of signs upon the site, their effect
upon parking, ingress and egress, the effects upon neighboring properties and
the general harmony of signs with the character of the neighborhood, existing
or intended.
   E.   Staff Review: The Building Official, City Engineer, and Planning and
Zoning Administrator shall review site plan applications and supporting
materials prior to the application being considered by the Land Use Authority.
The Building Official, City Engineer, and Planning and Zoning Administrator
shall provide a written recommendation for all site plan reviews. (Ord. 2018-
22, 10-23-2018)
11-5-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Compliance Required: A building permit shall not be issued for any
building or structure until the provisions of this chapter have been complied
with as determined by the Planning and Zoning Administrator. Any building
permit issued shall ensure that development is undertaken in conformity to the
approved site plan. (Ord. 2018-22, 10-23-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-5-7: EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL; EXTENSION:
Failure to obtain a building permit for an approved site plan within twelve
(12) months of the date of approval by the Land Use Authority shall result in
the expiration of said approval. The Land Use Authority may grant an extension
for good cause shown for up to an additional six (6) months after the original
date of approval. Applications for extension must be submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Administrator in writing prior to the expiration of the original
permit. The application must describe the reason for the extension, and shall
be accompanied by the fee set forth in the City's fee schedule. (Ord. 2018-22,
10-23-2018)
11-5-8: APPEAL:
All appeals to the provisions of this chapter shall be made in accordance with
section
11-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 2018-22, 10-23-2018)
CHAPTER 6
AMENDMENTS TO GENERAL PLAN, LAND USE ORDINANCE, AND OFFICIAL MAPS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Power Of Planning Commission And City Council
11-6-2: Petition For Change To Land Use Ordinance Or Zoning Map
11-6-3: Review Procedure For Land Use Ordinance Or Zoning Map
11-6-4: Petition For Change To General Plan Or General Plan Maps
11-6-5: Review Procedure For General Plan Or General Plan Maps
11-6-1: POWER OF PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL:
The planning commission and city council may initiate changes or modification
of any section or regulation of this title, the zoning map, the general plan,
or the general plan maps as necessity may arise. (Ord. 2009-22, 11-24-2009)
11-6-2: PETITION FOR CHANGE TO LAND USE ORDINANCE OR ZONING MAP:
   A.   Petition: Any person desiring to initiate a change in this title or the
zoning map shall submit a petition to the planning and zoning administrator,
who shall schedule the petition for consideration by the planning commission.
The planning and zoning administrator shall review the petition to see that all
information and items required by this title are included in the petition.
(Ord. 2009-22, 11-24-2009)
   B.   Information And Items Required: The petition shall be submitted in
writing on forms prepared by the city and shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Designation of the specific section amendment or zone change
desired.
      2.   The reason and justification for such change.
      3.   A draft of the proposed section amendment or a complete and accurate
legal description of the area proposed to be rezoned.
      4.   An accurate property map showing all areas to be included in the
rezoning and all properties immediately adjacent to the proposed rezone area.
      5.   A list of all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of
the boundaries of the property to be rezoned, according to the assessment rolls
of the Davis County assessor. Stamped, addressed envelopes for each property
owner shall also be submitted by the applicant. The return address shall be for
the city. (Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
   C.   Fee: The petition shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as
specified from time to time by the city council in the fee schedule. (Ord.
2009-22, 11-24-2009)
11-6-3: REVIEW PROCEDURE FOR LAND USE ORDINANCE OR ZONING MAP:
   A.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review the
petition for change to this title or the zoning map and certify its
recommendations to the city council. The planning commission may recommend
adoption of the proposed amendment when it finds that the proposed amendment is
in accordance with the general plan and map, or that changed conditions make
the proposed amendment necessary to fulfill the purposes of this title.
   B.   Public Hearings: A public hearing shall be held by the planning
commission and city council to review petitions for change to this title or the
zoning map.
   C.   Notice Requirements: Notice of the public hearing(s) to be held in
connection with a petition to amend this title or the zoning map shall be
provided as outlined in section
11-1-10, table 11.2, "Public Notice Requirements", of this title.
      1.   At least ten (10) days prior to the planning commission or city
council meeting during which a petition requesting action regarding
identifiable parcels of property is to be considered, the planning and zoning
administrator or designated agent shall post a minimum of one sign on each
frontage of the subject property stating the proposed or requested action and
the date, time and location of the planning commission or city council meeting
where the petition will be considered.
      2.   In the case of multiple properties in the same vicinity, the
planning and zoning administrator shall post a minimum of one sign at a general
location for all properties under consideration stating the proposed or
requested action and the date, time and location of the planning commission
meeting where the petition will be considered.
   D.   City Council Decision: Upon receipt of the planning commission's
recommendation, the city council may approve, approve with conditions, or deny
the petition. Amendments to this title and the zoning map are discretionary
legislative actions, even if the petition otherwise conforms to the
requirements of this title. (Ord. 2009-22, 11-24-2009)
11-6-4: PETITION FOR CHANGE TO GENERAL PLAN OR GENERAL PLAN MAPS:
   A.   Amendment: Any person seeking an amendment to the general plan or
general plan maps shall submit a petition to the planning and zoning
administrator, who shall schedule the petition for consideration by the
planning commission. The planning and zoning administrator shall review the
petition to see that all information and items required by this title are
included in the petition. (Ord. 2009-22, 11-24-2009)
   B.   Information And Items Required: The petition shall be submitted in
writing on forms prepared by the city and shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Designation of the specific text or map amendment desired.
      2.   The reason and justification for such change.
      3.   A draft of the proposed text or map amendment.
      4.   An accurate property map showing all areas to be included in the
amendment and all properties immediately adjacent to the proposed amendment
area. (Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
   C.   Fee: The petition for amendment shall be accompanied by the appropriate
fee, as specified from time to time by the city council in the fee schedule.
(Ord. 2009-22, 11-24-2009)
11-6-5: REVIEW PROCEDURE FOR GENERAL PLAN OR GENERAL PLAN MAPS:
   A.   Notice Of Intent: The city shall provide notice of its intent to
prepare comprehensive amendments to the general plan or general plan maps to
each "affected entity" (as defined in section
11-1-10 of this title), the state's automated geographic reference center, the
Wasatch front regional council, and the state planning coordinator or the Utah
public notice website.
   B.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review the
petition for change to the general plan or general plan maps and certify its
recommendations to the city council in accordance with Utah code title 10,
chapter 9a, as amended.
   C.   Public Hearing(s): Public hearing(s) shall be held by the planning
commission to review petitions for change to the general plan or map. The
public hearing(s) shall be held in accordance with Utah code title 10, chapter
9a, as amended.
   D.   Notice Requirements: Notice of the public hearing(s) to be held for a
petition to amend the general plan or general plan maps shall be provided as
outlined in section
11-1-10, table 11.2, "Public Notice Requirements", of this title.
   E.   City Council Decision: Upon receipt of the planning commission's
recommendation, the city council may adopt or reject the proposed amendment to
the general plan or general plan maps either as proposed by the planning
commission, or after making any revision that the city council considers
appropriate. (Ord. 2009-22, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 7
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
11-7-1: Official Zoning Map
11-7-2: Zone Regulations
11-7-1: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Zones: The city is hereby divided into zones as shown on the official
zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter, is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this title.
   B.   Title Of Map: The official zoning map shall be found on a map entitled
zoning map of Clearfield City, Utah, certified by the planning and zoning
administrator.
   C.   Amendments: If, in accordance with the provisions of this title,
changes are made in zone boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly
after amendment has been approved by the city council, with an entry on the
official zoning map giving the date and ordinance number of the approved
change.
   D.   Zone Boundary Interpretation: Where uncertainty exists with respect to
the boundaries of various zones, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximately lot lines, said lot
lines shall be construed to be the zone boundary, unless otherwise indicated.
      2.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximately street or alley
lines, the centerline of said street or alley shall be construed to be the zone
boundary.
      3.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximately canals,
watercourses or other natural features, the centerlines of such features shall
be construed to be the zone boundaries, unless otherwise indicated.
      4.   In the absence of any street, land survey, lot, canal, watercourse
or other natural feature or measurement, the zone boundary shall be determined
by the use of scale or measurement shown upon the map.
      5.   Where other uncertainty exists, the planning commission shall
interpret the locations of zone boundaries upon said zoning map.
   E.   Annexed Territory: Any property annexed to or consolidated with the
city, after the effective date hereof, shall be assigned a land use zone at the
time the property is annexed. (Ord. 2009-23, 11-24-2009)
11-7-2: ZONE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Requirement: The regulations set forth by this title within
each zone shall be the minimum requirements and shall apply uniformly to each
class or kind of structure, or land.
   B.   Uses Within Zones: No land uses shall be allowed within a zone except
those shown as permitted or conditional uses, or as otherwise provided for in
the zone regulations.
   C.   Supplementary Regulations: For the purpose of complete and satisfactory
use of this title, the user should consult chapter 13 of this title in addition
to the zone regulations. (Ord. 2009-23, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 8
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURAL ZONE (A-1)
SECTION:
11-8A-1: Purpose
11-8A-2: Permitted Uses
11-8A-3: Conditional Uses
11-8A-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-8A-5: Yard Regulations
11-8A-6: Height Regulation
11-8A-7: Density
11-8A-8: Lot Coverage
11-8A-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-8A-10: Signs
11-8A-11: Other Requirements
11-8A-1: PURPOSE:
The A-1 agricultural zone is established to provide areas where low density
residential uses may be harmoniously integrated with incidental agricultural
pursuits. This zone is intended to allow the keeping of farm animals in
proportion to the amount of land area provided for this purpose and within
limits of reasonable rules of health and sanitation. It is intended to retain
land in parcels large enough to provide efficient and attractive development as
urban uses extend in an orderly manner in these areas. (Ord. 2009-24, 11-24-
2009)
11-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
A-1 agricultural zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code:
Agriculture.
Beekeeping.
Churches.
Daycares, residential.
Farm animals (see subsection 11-8A-11A of this article).
Home occupations.
Parks and open space.
Preschools, residential.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
11-8A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
A-1 agricultural zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
Agricultural recreation.
Greenhouses.
Group homes for persons with a disability.
Group homes for the elderly.
Produce sales.
Public uses.
Temporary or seasonal merchants.
Veterinary services. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
11-8A-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be one-third (1/3) acre, or
fourteen thousand five hundred twenty (14,520) square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be one hundred feet (100').
   C.   Lot Frontage: The minimum lot frontage shall be one hundred feet
(100'). (Ord. 2009-24, 11-24-2009)
11-8A-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all main buildings shall
be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback for all main buildings shall
be ten feet (10') on each side.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard setback for all main
buildings on corner lots shall be twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to a
street.
   D.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2009-24, 11-24-2009)
11-8A-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet (35').
(Ord. 2009-24, 11-24-2009)
11-8A-7: DENSITY:
Density shall not exceed three (3) dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 2009-24, 11-
24-2009)
11-8A-8: LOT COVERAGE:
See chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 2009-24, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-07, 2-
25-2020)
11-8A-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-24, 11-24-2009)
11-8A-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-24, 11-24-2009)
11-8A-11: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Farm Animals And Structures:
      1.   Animal or fowl units for family food production or pleasure shall be
kept in accordance with the following regulations:
         a.   Parcels that are less than one-half (1/2) acre and no less than
one-third (1/3) acre shall be allowed to have one-half (1/2) of a fowl unit (15
chickens).
         b.   Parcels that are less than one-third (1/3) acre and no less than
one-fourth (1/4) acre shall be allowed to have one-third (1/3) of a fowl unit
(10 chickens).
         c.   Parcels that are less than one-fourth (1/4) acre and no less than
six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet (approximately 0.15 acre) shall
be allowed to have one-fifth (1/5) of a fowl unit (6 chickens).
         d.   Lots between one-half (1/2) acre and one acre in size shall be
allowed to keep one animal unit and one fowl unit.
         e.   Lots larger than one acre shall be allowed to keep one additional
animal unit and one additional fowl unit per each additional one-third (1/3)
acre in lot size.
      2.   All pens, coops, barns, stables, or corrals shall be set back not
less than fifty feet (50') from a public street (except on corner lots where
the setback from the side street may be reduced to not less than 35 feet), and
located not closer than twenty feet (20') from any dwelling on the lot or fifty
feet (50') from any dwelling on an adjacent lot. (Ord. 2017-07, 4-25-2017)
   B.   Floor Area: Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum finished floor area
of not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet for ramblers with
a full basement; all other styles shall have a minimum finished floor area of
not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet above grade.
   C.   Landscaping: All landscaping shall comply with the provisions of
chapter 21 of this title.
   D.   Garages: Each dwelling unit shall have an attached two car garage,
which shall be a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet in size.
   E.   Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Permitted exterior building materials for main buildings shall be
brick, stucco, stone, rock, or vinyl siding.
      2.   Vinyl siding shall not be permitted on the front elevation of a main
building.
      3.   Reserved.
      4.   The front elevation and any side elevation facing a street or right-
of-way shall include at least two (2) of the following: brick, stucco, stone,
or rock.
   F.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   G.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this chapter may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building. (Ord. 2009-24, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-
06, 4-25-2017; Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
ARTICLE B. AGRICULTURAL ZONE (A-2)
SECTION:
11-8B-1: Purpose
11-8B-2: Permitted Uses
11-8B-3: Conditional Uses
11-8B-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-8B-5: Yard Regulations
11-8B-6: Height Regulation
11-8B-7: Density
11-8B-8: Lot Coverage
11-8B-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-8B-10: Signs
11-8B-11: Other Requirements
11-8B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the A-2 Agricultural Zone is to provide for agricultural uses
and animal rights on existing, developed single-family lots in the southwestern
portion of the City adjacent to utility corridors. (Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009)
11-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the A-2 Agricultural Zone shall be the same as those of the
A-1 Agricultural Zone. (Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009)
11-8B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the A-2 Agricultural Zone shall be the same as those of the
A-1 Agricultural Zone. (Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009)
11-8B-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be one-third (1/3) acre, or
fourteen thousand five hundred twenty (14,520) square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be sixty feet (60').
   C.   Lot Frontage: The minimum lot frontage shall be sixty feet (60'). (Ord.
2009-25, 11-24-2009)
11-8B-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all main buildings shall
be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback for all main buildings shall
be eight feet (8') on each side.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard setback for all main
buildings on corner lots shall be twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to a
street.
   D.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009)
11-8B-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet (35').
(Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009)
11-8B-7: DENSITY:
Density shall not exceed three (3) dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 2009-25, 11-
24-2009)
11-8B-8: LOT COVERAGE:
See chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-07, 2-
25-2020)
11-8B-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009)
11-8B-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009)
11-8B-11: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Farm Animals And Structures:
      1.   Animal or fowl units for family food production or pleasure shall be
kept in accordance with the following regulations:
         a.   Parcels that are less than one-half (1/2) acre and no less than
one-third (1/3) acre shall be allowed to have one-half (1/2) of a fowl unit (15
chickens).
         b.   Parcels that are less than one-third (1/3) acre and no less than
one-fourth (1/4) acre shall be allowed to have one-third (1/3) of a fowl unit
(10 chickens).
         c.   Parcels that are less than one-fourth (1/4) acre and no less than
six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet (approximately 0.15 acre) shall
be allowed to have one-fifth (1/5) of a fowl unit (6 chickens).
         d.   Lots between one-half (1/2) acre and one acre in size shall be
allowed to keep one animal unit and one fowl unit.
         e.   Lots larger than one acre shall be allowed to keep one additional
animal unit and one additional fowl unit per each additional one-third (1/3)
acre in lot size.
      2.   All pens, coops, barns, stables, or corrals shall be set back not
less than fifty feet (50') from a public street (except on corner lots where
the setback from the side street may be reduced to not less than 35 feet), and
located not closer than twenty feet (20') from any dwelling on the lot or fifty
feet (50') from any dwelling on an adjacent lot.
   B.   Floor Area: Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum finished floor area
of not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet for ramblers with
a full basement; all other styles shall have a minimum finished floor area of
not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet above grade.
   C.   Landscaping: All landscaping shall comply with the provisions of
chapter 21 of this title.
   D.   Garages: Each dwelling unit shall have an attached two car garage,
which shall be a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet in size.
   E.   Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Permitted exterior building materials for main buildings shall be
brick, stucco, stone, rock, or vinyl siding.
      2.   Vinyl siding shall not be permitted on the front elevation of a main
building.
      3.   Reserved.
      4.   The front elevation and any side elevation facing a street or right-
of-way shall include at least two (2) of the following: brick, stucco, stone,
or rock.
   F.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   G.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building. (Ord. 2009-25, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-
06, 4-25-2017; Ord. 2017-07, 4-25-2017; Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
CHAPTER 9
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-1-9)
SECTION:
11-9A-1: Purpose
11-9A-2: Permitted Uses
11-9A-3: Conditional Uses
11-9A-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-9A-5: Yard Regulations
11-9A-6: Height Regulation
11-9A-7: Density
11-9A-8: Lot Coverage
11-9A-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-9A-10: Signs
11-9A-11: Other Requirements
11-9A-1: PURPOSE:
The R-1-9 residential zone is established to provide low density residential
neighborhoods for the encouragement and promotion of an environment for family
life by providing an area for single-family detached dwellings on individual
lots. Certain nonresidential uses that are compatible with residential
developments are also anticipated and provided for. (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-2009)
11-9A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-1-9 residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code:
Beekeeping.
Churches.
Daycares, residential.
Home occupations.
Parks and open space.
Preschools, residential.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
11-9A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
R-1-9 residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
Group homes for persons with a disability.
Group homes for the elderly.
Public uses. (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014)
11-9A-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be nine thousand (9,000) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback line
shall be eighty five feet (85').
   C.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of ninety feet (90').
   D.   Lot Frontage: The minimum lot frontage shall be seventy feet (70').
(Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-2009)
11-9A-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all main buildings shall
be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback for all main buildings shall
be eight feet (8') on each side.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard setback for all main
buildings on corner lots shall be twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to a
street.
   D.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-2009)
11-9A-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35'). No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height or the
maximum height of the main building, whichever is lower. (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-
2009)
11-9A-7: DENSITY:
Density shall not exceed 4.84 dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-
2009)
11-9A-8: LOT COVERAGE:
See chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-07, 2-
25-2020)
11-9A-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-2009)
11-9A-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-2009)
11-9A-11: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total
project area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All landscaping shall
comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Floor Area: Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum finished floor area
of not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet above grade for
ramblers with a full basement; all other styles shall have a minimum finished
floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet above
grade.
   C.   Garages: Each dwelling unit shall have an attached two car garage,
which shall be a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet in size.
   D.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the R-1-9 Zone. All applications for a rezone, preliminary
plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final approval of the
development agreement by the City Council.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building. (Ord. 2009-26, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-
06, 2-22-2022; Ord. 2022-07, 4-12-2022)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-1-8)
SECTION:
11-9B-1: Purpose
11-9B-2: Permitted Uses
11-9B-3: Conditional Uses
11-9B-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-9B-5: Yard Regulations
11-9B-6: Height Regulation
11-9B-7: Density
11-9B-8: Lot Coverage
11-9B-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-9B-10: Signs
11-9B-11: Other Requirements
11-9B-1: PURPOSE:
The R-1-8 Residential Zone is established to provide low to medium density
residential neighborhoods for the encouragement and promotion of an environment
for family life by producing an area for single-family detached dwellings on
individual lots. Certain nonresidential uses that are compatible with
residential development are also anticipated and provided for. (Ord. 2009-27,
11-24-2009)
11-9B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-1-8 Residential Zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
Code:
Beekeeping.
Churches.
Daycares, residential.
Home occupations.
Parks and open space.
Preschools, residential.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
11-9B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
R-1-8 Residential Zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
Code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
Group homes for persons with a disability.
Group homes for the elderly.
Public uses. (Ord. 2009-27, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014)
11-9B-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be eight thousand (8,000) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be seventy feet (70').
   C.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of eighty feet (80').
   D.   Lot Frontage: The minimum lot frontage shall be seventy feet (70').
(Ord. 2018-11, 7-31-2018)
11-9B-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback for all main buildings shall
be eight feet (8') on each side.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard setback for all main
buildings on corner lots shall be twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to a
street.
   D.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2018-11, 7-31-2018)
11-9B-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35'). No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height or the
maximum height of the main building, whichever is lower. (Ord. 2009-27, 11-24-
2009)
11-9B-7: DENSITY:
Density shall not exceed 5.44 dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 2009-27, 11-24-
2009)
11-9B-8: LOT COVERAGE:
See chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 2009-27, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-07, 2-
25-2020)
11-9B-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-27, 11-24-2009)
11-9B-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-27, 11-24-2009)
11-9B-11: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total
project area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All landscaping shall
comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Floor Area: Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum finished floor area
of not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet above grade for
ramblers with a full basement; all other styles shall have a minimum finished
floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet above
grade.
   C.   Garages: Each dwelling unit shall have an attached two car garage,
which shall be a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet in size.
   D.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the R-1-8 Zone. All applications for a rezone, preliminary
plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final approval of the
development agreement by the City Council.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building. (Ord. 2009-27, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-
06, 2-22-2022; Ord. 2022-07, 4-12-2022)
ARTICLE C. RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-1-6)
SECTION:
11-9C-1: Purpose
11-9C-2: Permitted Uses
11-9C-3: Conditional Uses
11-9C-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-9C-5: Yard Regulations
11-9C-6: Height Regulation
11-9C-7: Density
11-9C-8: Lot Coverage
11-9C-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-9C-10: Signs
11-9C-11: Other Requirements
11-9C-1: PURPOSE:
The R-1-6 Residential Zone is established to provide medium density residential
neighborhoods for the encouragement and promotion of an environment for family
life with houses having smaller lot areas. To provide lower housing
construction costs and to encourage efficiency in construction and Municipal
service, certain nonresidential uses that are compatible with residential
developments are also anticipated and provided for. (Ord. 2009-28, 11-24-2009)
11-9C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-1-6 Residential Zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
Code:
Beekeeping.
Churches.
Daycares, residential.
Home occupations.
Parks and open space.
Preschools, residential.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
11-9C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
R-1-6 Residential Zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
Code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
Group homes for persons with a disability.
Group homes for the elderly.
Public uses. (Ord. 2009-28, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014)
11-9C-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be six thousand (6,000) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be sixty feet (60').
   C.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line of seventy feet (70').
   D.   Lot Frontage: The minimum lot frontage shall be fifty feet (50'). (Ord.
2019-02, 1-22-2019)
11-9C-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setbacks for all main buildings shall
be six feet (6') on each side.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard setback for all main
buildings on corner lots shall be twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to a
street.
   D.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2019-02, 1-22-2019)
11-9C-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35'). No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height or the
maximum height of the main building, whichever is lower. (Ord. 2009-28, 11-24-
2009)
11-9C-7: DENSITY:
Density shall not exceed 6.7 dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 2009-28, 11-24-
2009)
11-9C-8: LOT COVERAGE:
See chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 2009-28, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-07, 2-
25-2020)
11-9C-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-28, 11-24-2009)
11-9C-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-28, 11-24-2009)
11-9C-11: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the
total lot or parcel area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All
landscaping shall comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Floor Area: Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum finished floor area
of not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet above grade for
ramblers with a full basement; all other styles shall have a minimum finished
floor area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet above
grade.
   C.   Garages: Each dwelling unit shall have an attached two car garage,
which shall be a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet in size.
   D.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the R-1-6 Zone. All applications for a rezone, preliminary
plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final approval of the
development agreement by the City Council.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building. (Ord. 2009-28, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-
06, 2-22-2022; Ord. 2022-07, 4-12-2022)
ARTICLE D. RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-2)
SECTION:
11-9D-1: Purpose
11-9D-2: Permitted Uses
11-9D-3: Conditional Uses
11-9D-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-9D-5: Yard Regulations
11-9D-6: Height Regulation
11-9D-7: Density
11-9D-8: Lot Coverage
11-9D-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-9D-10: Signs
11-9D-11: Other Requirements
11-9D-1: PURPOSE:
The R-2 residential zone is established to provide medium density residential
neighborhoods. Certain nonresidential uses that serve the needs of the
residential community and are compatible with it are also anticipated and
provided for. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-24-2009)
11-9D-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-2 residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code:
Churches.
Daycares, residential.
Group homes for persons with a disability.
Group homes for the elderly.
Home occupations.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Parks and open space.
Preschools, residential.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014;
Ord. 2014-30, 12-9-2014)
11-9D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
R-2 residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
Public uses. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014)
11-9D-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be six thousand five hundred
(6,500) square feet for single-family dwellings and eight thousand (8,000)
square feet for two-family dwellings. There shall be no minimum lot size for
multiple-family dwellings. The density shall not exceed the density stated in
section
11-9D-7 of this article.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be sixty five feet (65') for single- family dwellings and eighty
feet (80') for two-family dwellings. There shall be no minimum lot width for
multi- family dwellings.
   C.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of seventy five feet (75') for single-
family dwellings and ninety feet (90') for two-family dwellings.
   D.   Lot Frontage: The minimum lot frontage for single-family dwellings
shall be sixty feet (60') and seventy feet (70') for two-family dwellings.
There shall be no minimum lot frontage for multi-family dwellings. (Ord. 2010-
09, 6-22-2010)
11-9D-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback for all main buildings shall
be eight feet (8') on each side.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard setback for all main
buildings on corner lots shall be fifteen feet (15') on the side adjacent to a
street.
   D.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty five feet (25').
   E.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory building shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main buildings or other accessory buildings shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points.
      1.   Accessory buildings up to ten feet (10') in height shall be located
at least two feet (2') away from any side or rear property line.
      2.   Accessory buildings between ten feet (10') and twenty feet (20') in
height shall be located at least eight feet (8') from any side or rear property
line.
   F.   Multiple-Family Buildings: Separate multiple-family buildings built on
the same lot or parcel shall maintain a distance of thirty feet (30') at the
closest points. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-24-2009)
11-9D-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35'). No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height or the
maximum height of the main building, whichever is lower. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-24-
2009)
11-9D-7: DENSITY:
Density shall not exceed eight (8) dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-
24-2009)
11-9D-8: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Lot coverage by all buildings, including main and accessory buildings,
shall not be more than forty five percent (45%) of the total lot or parcel
area.
   B.   The combined footprint of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
forty percent (40%) of the footprint of the main building(s). (Ord. 2009-29,
11-24-2009)
11-9D-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-24-2009)
11-9D-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-24-2009)
11-9D-11: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the
total project area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All landscaping
shall comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Floor Area: Each single-family and two-family dwelling unit shall have
a minimum finished floor area of not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet above grade for ramblers with a full basement; all other styles
shall have a minimum finished floor area of not less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet above grade. Multiple-family dwellings shall have a
minimum finished floor area of not less than one thousand sixty (1,060) square
feet per dwelling unit.
   C.   Garages: Each single-family and two-family dwelling unit shall have an
attached two (2) car garage, which shall be a minimum of four hundred (400)
square feet in size.
   D.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the R-2 zone. All applications for a rezone, preliminary
plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final approval of the
development agreement by the city council.
   E.   Multiple-Family Dwelling Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Non-Permitted exterior building materials for main buildings are
vinyl siding, aluminum siding, fiber cement panels, unfinished poured concrete,
rusted metal, and sheet metal.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be built with a finished, all weather
exterior material. Detached garages and carports shall be finished to match the
exterior of the main building.
      3.   Any front building elevation or elevation facing a street or right
of way shall include at least one (1) of the following: brick, stone, or rock.
   F.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   G.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   H.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the R-
2 residential zone shall incorporate the appropriate design standards described
in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2009-29, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 2-
22-2022; Ord. 2022-07, 4-12-2022; Ord. 2024-17, 10-18-2024)
ARTICLE E. RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-3)
SECTION:
11-9E-1: Purpose
11-9E-2: Permitted Uses
11-9E-3: Conditional Uses
11-9E-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-9E-5: Yard Regulations
11-9E-6: Height Regulation
11-9E-7: Distance Between Buildings
11-9E-8: Density
11-9E-9: Lot Coverage
11-9E-10: Parking, Loading And Access
11-9E-11: Signs
11-9E-12: Site Plan Approval
11-9E-13: Other Requirements
11-9E-1: PURPOSE:
The R-3 residential zone is established to provide an attractive setting for
medium and high density multiple-family residential development. Certain
nonresidential uses that are compatible are also anticipated and provided for.
(Ord. 2009-30, 11-24-2009)
11-9E-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-3 residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code:
Churches.
Daycares, residential.
Group homes for persons with a disability.
Group homes for the elderly.
Home occupations.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Parks and open space.
Preschools, residential.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 2009-30, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014;
Ord. 2014-30, 12-9-2014)
11-9E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
R-3 residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
Assisted living facilities.
Convalescent facilities.
Nursing or rest homes.
Public uses. (Ord. 2009-30, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014)
11-9E-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be six thousand five hundred
(6,500) square feet for single-family dwellings and eight thousand (8,000)
square feet for two-family dwellings. There shall be no minimum lot size for
multiple-family dwellings. The density shall not exceed the density stated in
section
11-9E-8 of this article.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be sixty five feet (65') for single- family dwellings and eighty
feet (80') for two-family dwellings. There shall be no minimum lot width for
multi- family dwellings.
   C.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of seventy five feet (75') for single-
family dwellings and ninety feet (90') for two-family dwellings.
   D.   Lot Frontage: The minimum lot frontage for single-family dwellings
shall be sixty feet (60') and seventy feet (70') for two-family dwellings.
There shall be no minimum lot frontage for multi-family dwellings. (Ord. 2010-
09, 6-22-2010)
11-9E-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback for single-family homes shall
be eight feet (8') per side; the minimum side yard setback for two-family and
multiple-family dwellings shall be ten feet (10') on each side.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard setback for all main
buildings on corner lots shall be fifteen feet (15') on the side adjacent to a
street.
   D.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty five feet (25'), with the exception of multiple-family dwellings,
which shall be thirty feet (30').
   E.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory buildings shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main buildings or other accessory buildings shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points.
      1.   Accessory buildings up to ten feet (10') in height shall be located
at least two feet (2') away from any side or rear property line.
      2.   Accessory buildings between ten feet (10') and twenty feet (20') in
height shall be located at least eight feet (8') from any side or rear property
line. (Ord. 2009-30, 11-24-2009)
11-9E-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35'). No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height or the
maximum height of the main building, whichever is lower. (Ord. 2009-30, 11-24-
2009)
11-9E-7: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
Separate multiple-family buildings built on the same lot or parcel shall
maintain a distance of thirty feet (30') at the closest points. (Ord. 2009-30,
11-24-2009)
11-9E-8: DENSITY:
Density shall not exceed sixteen (16) dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 2009-30,
11-24-2009)
11-9E-9: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Lot coverage by all buildings, including main and accessory buildings,
shall not be more than forty five percent (45%) of the lot or parcel area.
   B.   The combined footprint of all accessory buildings shall not exceed
forty percent (40%) of the footprint of the main building(s). (Ord. 2009-30,
11-24-2009)
11-9E-10: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-30, 11-24-2009)
11-9E-11: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-30, 11-24-2009)
11-9E-12: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
Site plan approval shall be required for all buildings containing two (2) or
more units, in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of this title. (Ord.
2009-30, 11-24-2009)
11-9E-13: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of
the total project area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All
landscaping shall comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Floor Area: Each single-family and two-family dwelling unit shall have
a minimum finished floor area of not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet above grade for ramblers with a full basement; all other styles
shall have a minimum finished floor area of not less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet above grade. Multiple-family dwellings shall
maintain an average finished floor area of not less than one thousand sixty
(1,060) square feet per dwelling unit above grade. In no case, however, shall a
multiple-family dwelling unit have a minimum finished floor area of less than
seven hundred (700) square feet.
   C.   Walls And Fences: Walls or fences may be required around all multiple-
family developments. The height, type, location, and materials of such walls
and fences shall be approved by the planning commission as part of the site
plan review.
   D.   Garages: Each single-family and two-family dwelling unit shall have an
attached two (2) car garage, which shall be a minimum of four hundred (400)
square feet in size.
   E.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the R-3 residential zone. All applications for a rezone,
preliminary plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final
approval of the development agreement by the city council.
   F.   Multiple-Family Dwelling Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Non-Permitted exterior building materials for main buildings are
vinyl siding, aluminum siding, fiber cement panels, unfinished poured concrete,
rusted metal, and sheet metal.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be built with a finished, all weather
exterior material. Detached garages and carports shall be finished to match the
exterior of the main building.
      3.   Any front building elevation or elevation facing a street or right
of way shall include at least one (1) of the following: brick, stone, or rock.
   G.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   H.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   I.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the R-
3 residential zone shall incorporate the appropriate design standards described
in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2009-30, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 2-
22-2022; Ord. 2024-17, 10-18-2024)
ARTICLE F. MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-M)
SECTION:
11-9F-1: Purpose
11-9F-2: Permitted Uses
11-9F-3: Conditional Uses
11-9F-4: General Requirements
11-9F-5: Mobile Home Parks
11-9F-6: Mobile Home Subdivisions
11-9F-1: PURPOSE:
The R-M mobile home residential zone is established to provide a residential
environment within the city primarily for the accommodation of mobile homes and
modular housing units, either within an established mobile home park under one
ownership or within a mobile home subdivision, with lots under separate
ownership. The R-M mobile home residential zone is intended to be characterized
by attractively landscaped mobile homes and modular units with amenities
comparable to those of any other residential development. This zone is also
intended to assure a high degree of compatibility between mobile home parks and
subdivisions and adjacent residential developments of other types. (Ord. 2009-
31, 11-24-2009)
11-9F-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-M mobile home zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code:
Manufactured homes.
Mobile homes.
Modular homes.
Parks and open space. (Ord. 2009-31, 11-24-2009)
11-9F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
R-M mobile home zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
Group homes for persons with a disability.
Group homes for the elderly.
Public uses. (Ord. 2009-31, 11-24-2009)
11-9F-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Skirting: Skirting material shall be provided entirely around the
periphery of each mobile home, manufactured home, and modular home to conceal
the open area beneath the unit's frame. Said skirting shall be of durable
construction, fireproof and compatible with the exterior finish of the unit.
   B.   Transient Mobile Homes: Mobile home lots or mobile home spaces within a
mobile home subdivision or mobile home park shall not be used for transient
trailer or transient mobile home sites. Said lots or spaces shall be occupied
only by mobile homes which are placed upon piers or jacks and attached to
public utilities.
   C.   Minimum Area: The minimum land area required for the development of a
mobile home park or mobile home subdivision shall be five (5) acres.
   D.   Guarantees: Adequate and reasonable guarantees must be provided as
determined by the planning commission through the site plan process for
permanent retention of open spaces and for the provision of roadways, storage
facilities, service facilities and landscaping resulting from the application
of these regulations. Guarantees may be in the form of a bond or mortgage on
real estate in the sum to be determined by the planning commission, which form
must be approved by the city council and the city attorney. (Ord. 2009-31, 11-
24-2009)
11-9F-5: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Space For Mobile Home: Each site or space in a mobile home park shall
be a minimum of four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet in area.
   B.   Width: Each site in a mobile home park shall have a width of not less
than fifty feet (50').
   C.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback shall be ten feet (10'),
measured from the edge of the roadway. The towing hitch may extend into this
front yard area not more than five feet (5') and shall be hidden from view.
   D.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard for mobile homes shall be ten feet
(10').
   E.   Side Yard, Corner Spaces: The minimum side yard for all structures on
corner spaces shall be fifteen feet (15') on the side adjacent to a street,
except that when the side yard is adjacent to a street not within the mobile
home park, the side yard adjacent to a street shall not be used for parking.
   F.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all mobile homes shall be
ten feet (10').
   G.   Accessory Building: No accessory building shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main buildings or other accessory buildings shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points. Accessory buildings shall be located at least two feet (2')
away from any side or rear property line. The maximum size of any accessory
building shall be one hundred twenty (120) square feet of floor area.
   H.   Height: No building shall be erected to a height greater than fifteen
feet (15').
   I.   Parking: See chapter 14 of this title. In addition, space shall be
provided for the storage of boats, campers, trailers, etc.; at the amount of
eighty (80) square feet of storage space for every mobile home space in the
park. The designated storage area shall be hard surfaced with a material
approved by the planning commission. It shall be fully enclosed by an opaque
fence to screen the storage from the surrounding mobile home spaces.
   J.   Signs: See chapter 15 of this title.
   K.   Landscaping: All open areas, except for driveways, parking areas and
other similar improvements, shall be landscaped with a natural material, free
of weeds, which will prevent wind and water erosion. Acceptable landscaping
will consist of cultivated vegetation and flower gardens, manicured shrubs,
decorative rock, decorative ground cover or, as a minimum, a well groomed lawn.
A combination of the listed landscaping materials is permitted.
   L.   Trash Storage: Containers for trash storage of a size, type and
quantity approved by the city shall be provided in locations as to be concealed
from street view, and shall be easily accessible by collection vehicles.
   M.   Walls And Fences: Walls and fences around individual spaces in a mobile
home park shall not exceed six feet (6') in height. A wall or fence shall be
erected around the perimeter of each mobile home park with a height and type of
materials to be approved by the planning commission. A wall or fence located
within the front yard of a space shall not exceed two feet (2') in height.
   N.   Street Standards: Streets constructed within a mobile home park shall
be provided in such a pattern as to provide convenient traffic circulation
within said park. They shall be built to the following standards:
      1.   For one-way traffic, fifteen feet (15') in width, plus extra width
as necessary for maneuvering mobile homes.
      2.   For two-way traffic, thirty feet (30') in width.
      3.   For entrance roadways, minimum of thirty six feet (36') in width.
      4.   All roadways shall be hard surfaced and bordered by twenty four inch
(24") rolled gutters or its equivalent.
      5.   Minimum thirty six inch (36") sidewalks shall be installed on all
main roadways within the park.
   O.   Recreation Areas: A central recreation area shall be established in
each mobile home park. The size of the recreation area shall be at least two
hundred (200) square feet for each mobile home space. The area of the
recreation space may contain community clubhouses, swimming pools,
shuffleboards and other similar facilities provided exclusively for recreation
purposes. The planning commission may permit decentralization of the recreation
facilities, provided such areas are of adequate size to be usable and practical
for group recreation. Guarantees must be provided to the city to assure that
the recreation spaces will not be developed in a manner inconsistent with the
approved site plan.
   P.   Administrative Office And Manager: Every mobile home park shall include
a permanent building for office and administrative use. This building may
include a single-family dwelling for the exclusive use of the owner or manager.
A manager for the park shall be available twenty four (24) hours per day.
   Q.   Laundry: Laundry drying lines shall not be permitted on any mobile home
sites.
   R.   Telephones: A mobile home park shall contain at least one public
telephone for the use of park residents.
   S.   Utilities: All utility distribution facilities, including electrical
service and television antenna services within a mobile home park, shall be
placed underground. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals and
other necessary appurtenances to the underground facilities may be placed
aboveground. All mobile home spaces must be served with water, gas,
electricity, telephone and sanitary sewer.
   T.   Community Television Antenna: One single television antenna for
community service may be situated within the mobile home park, which shall
become part of the common facilities and shall be maintained in perpetuity in
conjunction with other common open spaces and recreation areas.
   U.   Yard Lighting: A minimum of 0.2 foot-candles of light shall be required
for protective yard lighting the full length of all driveways and walkways.
   V.   Storm Drainage: Storm drainage facilities shall be so constructed as to
protect those that will reside in the mobile home park, as well as the property
owners adjacent to the park.
   W.   Site Plan Approval: Site plan approval shall be required for all mobile
home parks. In addition to the items required in chapter 5 of this title for
site plan approval, the site plan shall show the items required in this article
for mobile home parks. (Ord. 2009-31, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-11, 4-14-2020)
11-9F-6: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be six thousand (6,000) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be sixty feet (60').
   C.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of seventy feet (70').
   D.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback shall be fifteen feet (15').
The towing hitch may extend into this front yard area not more than five feet
(5') and shall be hidden from view.
   E.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard for mobile homes shall be ten feet
(10').
   F.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard on corner lots shall be
twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to a street.
   G.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback shall be ten feet (10').
   H.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory building shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main buildings or other accessory buildings shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points. Accessory buildings shall be located at least two feet (2')
away from any side or rear property line. The maximum size of any accessory
building shall be one hundred twenty (120) square feet of floor area.
   I.   Height: No building shall be erected to a height greater than fifteen
feet (15').
   J.   Parking: See chapter 14 of this title.
   K.   Signs: See chapter 15 of this title.
   L.   Landscaping: All open areas, except for driveways, parking areas and
other similar improvements, shall be landscaped with a natural material, free
of weeds, which will prevent wind and water erosion. Acceptable landscaping
will consist of cultivated vegetation and flower gardens, manicured shrubs,
decorative rock, decorative ground cover or, as a minimum, a well groomed lawn.
A combination of the listed landscaping materials is permitted.
   M.   Subdivision Requirements: Mobile home subdivisions shall comply with
all the requirements of title 12 of this code.
   N.   Definition: For the purposes of this chapter, the term "mobile home" as
used herein shall also include manufactured homes and modular housing units, as
defined by chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2009-31, 11-24-2009)
ARTICLE G. OPEN RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-1-OPEN)
SECTION:
11-9G-1: Purpose
11-9G-2: Permitted Uses
11-9G-3: Conditional Uses
11-9G-4: Density
11-9G-5: Development Agreement
11-9G-6: Elevations
11-9G-7: Two Car Garage
11-9G-8: Infrastructure Required
11-9G-9: Open Space And Amenities
11-9G-10: Homeowners' Association
11-9G-11: Single-Family Dwellings
11-9G-12: Finished Floor Space
11-9G-13: Foundations Or Footings Required
11-9G-14: Building Area
11-9G-15: Recording Required
11-9G-1: PURPOSE:
The R-1-open residential zone is established to provide low density, larger
dwellings, aesthetically pleasing neighborhoods and to preserve open spaces
within the neighborhoods; to provide for the development of remaining
residential areas into one- family detached dwellings in a planned open space
environment. Such developments are to be done in compliance with a development
agreement. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-1-open residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in
this code:
Beekeeping.
Churches.
Daycares, residential.
Home occupations.
Parks and open space.
Preschools, residential.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
11-9G-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
R-1-open residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in
this code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4
of this title:
Group homes for persons with a disability.
Group homes for the elderly.
Public uses. (Ord. 2010-09, 6-22-2010; amd. Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014)
11-9G-4: DENSITY:
The minimum density shall be three and five-tenths (3.5) dwellings per acre
when one percent (1%) through four percent (4%) of the development is developed
as open space. If five percent (5%) through nine percent (9%) is developed as
open space, the density shall be four (4.0) dwellings per acre. The maximum
allowed density shall be four and five-tenths (4.5) dwellings per unit when ten
percent (10%) or more of the development is developed as open space. Open space
does not include the landscaped areas on the residential lots or any land area
with more than a thirty percent (30%) slope. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-5: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
This zone requires that the developer and city negotiate a contract covering
the development of the area which shall incorporate the requirements of this
article and other requirements as agreed to by the parties. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-
24-2009)
11-9G-6: ELEVATIONS:
Each residential unit will be built according to the elevations presented to
the City during the approval process and those elevations shall be attached to
the development agreement as exhibits. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-7: TWO CAR GARAGE:
Each dwelling unit shall have an attached two car garage, which shall be a
minimum of four hundred (400) square feet in size. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-8: INFRASTRUCTURE REQUIRED:
The developer shall build the infrastructure, i.e., roads, sidewalks, sewer and
water lines, trails, parks, tot lots, green spaces and other off site
improvements as shown on the subdivision plat, which plat will be included in
the development agreement by reference. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-9: OPEN SPACE AND AMENITIES:
Open space requirements and other amenities agreed to between the City and the
developer shall be included in the agreement. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-10: HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION:
The developer shall prepare any required homeowners' association agreements,
restrictive covenants and bylaws, subject to the approval of the City. (Ord.
2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-11: SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
All dwelling units within the development shall be single-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-12: FINISHED FLOOR SPACE:
Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum finished floor area of not less than
one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet for ramblers with a full basement;
all other styles shall have a minimum finished floor area of not less than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet above grade.
The numbers contained in this section are intended to be minimum requirements.
The actual number shall be set forth in the development agreement. (Ord. 2009-
32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-13: FOUNDATIONS OR FOOTINGS REQUIRED:
Each dwelling shall be built upon a foundation or footings. No slab on grade
construction is allowed. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-14: BUILDING AREA:
Side yards, front yards, corner yards and rear yards shall be set in the
development agreement. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
11-9G-15: RECORDING REQUIRED:
The developer shall be required at its expense to record, in the Davis County
Recorder’s Office, the development agreement and covenants running with all the
lots and land in the development and indicate on the subdivision plat(s)
approved for each development the existence of the development agreement and
the recording data. (Ord. 2009-32, 11-24-2009)
ARTICLE H. RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R-3R)
SECTION:
11-9H-1: Purpose
11-9H-2: Permitted Uses
11-9H-3: Conditional Uses
11-9H-4: Eligibility
11-9H-5: Development Agreement Approval Required
11-9H-6: Site Plan Approval Required
11-9H-7: Design Standards
11-9H-8: Parking, Loading And Access
11-9H-9: Signs
11-9H-10: Other Requirements
11-9H-1: PURPOSE:
The R-3R redevelopment zone is established to provide an attractive setting for
new and redeveloped high density multiple- family dwellings with upgraded
design features. It is primarily intended to encourage the redevelopment of
existing high density residential developments within the city. Certain
nonresidential uses that are compatible with residential development are also
anticipated and provided for. (Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the R-3R zone shall be the same as those in the R-3 zone.
(Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the R-3R zone shall be the same as those in the R-3 zone.
(Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-4: ELIGIBILITY:
Only those properties with an existing R-3 zone designation or mobile home
parks that existed at the time of enactment of this article shall be eligible
to apply for a rezone to the R-3R zone. (Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-5: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Development in the R-3R zone may require approval of a development agreement in
accordance with section
11-1-16 of this title. (Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-6: SITE PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Development in the R-3R zone shall require approval of a site plan in
accordance with chapter 5 of this title. The site plan process shall be used to
determine density, minimum area, frontage, lot width, setback, lot coverage,
height, landscaping, fencing, exterior building material, floor area, and other
applicable regulations. The approval of a project's site plan by the planning
commission shall be conditioned upon the final approval of the project's
development agreement by the city council. (Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
All new site development or construction in the R-3R zone shall incorporate the
appropriate design standards described in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2009-
33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-8: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-9: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
11-9H-10: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of
the total project area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All
landscaping shall comply with the provisions of chapter 13 of this title.
   B.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   C.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building. (Ord. 2009-33, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 10
BUFFER ZONE (B-1)
SECTION:
11-10-1: Purpose
11-10-2: Permitted Uses
11-10-3: Conditional Uses
11-10-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-10-5: Yard Regulations
11-10-6: Height Regulation
11-10-7: Distance Between Buildings
11-10-8: Parking, Loading And Access
11-10-9: Signs
11-10-10: Site Plan Requirements
11-10-11: Other Requirements
11-10-1: PURPOSE:
The B-1 buffer zone is established to provide areas which allow for low
intensity, density and impact, nonresidential uses to serve as a buffer area
between existing or master planned residential areas and high traffic volume
corridors, railroad track corridors, industrially zoned areas and general
commercially zoned areas within the city. The allowable uses should ideally use
relatively large land areas and generate minimal vehicle trip generation rates.
Allowable uses should also operate primarily during normal daytime business
hours and not generate objectionable noise, odors, dust or fumes which could
otherwise be incompatible with the residential uses being buffered. It is not
intended that the buffer zone be considered as just another commercial or
industrial zone with which to strip zone existing traffic corridors, nor is it
intended that the buffer zone allow large amounts of commercial or light
industrial property to compete with the existing and established commercial and
industrial zoned areas of the city. The permitted uses contained in this buffer
zone are intended to be generally acceptable anywhere the buffer zone is
established and could be generally acceptable as an immediately adjacent
neighboring property to a low density single-family residence. The conditional
uses contained in this buffer zone are intended to be those uses which are
acceptable within the buffer zone, but may not be generally acceptable as an
immediately adjacent neighboring property to single-family residence and,
therefore, must be considered on a site specific basis. (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-
2009)
11-10-2: PERMITTED USES:
Business services.
Churches.
Medical clinics.
Parks and open space.
Public uses.
Schools. (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Daycare facilities.
Hotels.
Mortuaries.
Preschools, commercial.
Veterinary services. (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be ten thousand (10,000) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be eighty five feet (85').
   C.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of one hundred five feet (105'). (Ord.
2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all buildings shall be
twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback shall be ten feet (10') per
side.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard for all buildings on
corner lots shall be twenty feet (20') on the side adjacent to a street and
shall be landscaped.
   D.   Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard setback for all main buildings shall
be twenty five feet (25'). The rear yard may be used for vehicular access and
parking, except that at least a ten foot (10') landscaped area is required
abutting residential use or zone.
   E.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory building shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main buildings, or other accessory buildings, shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points. Accessory buildings shall be located at least two feet (2')
away from any side or rear property line. (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than two (2) stories or thirty
five feet (35'), whichever is less. (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-7: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between main buildings on the same lot or parcel shall be
twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-8: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-9: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-10: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
Site plan approval shall be required for all buildings and uses in the B-
1 buffer zone, in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of this title.
(Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009)
11-10-11: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total
project area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All landscaping shall
comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Garbage Dumpsters: Garbage dumpsters shall be completely screened when
adjacent to a residentially zoned parcel, or in any location where they can be
viewed from a public right of way.
   C.   Walls And Fences: Walls or fences may be required along all property
lines which are adjacent to a residential zone or use or public right of way.
The exact location, height and type of materials of the wall or fence shall be
approved by the planning commission as part of the site plan approval process.
   D.   Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Non-Permitted exterior building materials for main buildings are
vinyl siding, aluminum siding, fiber cement panels, unfinished poured concrete,
rusted metal, and sheet metal.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be built with a finished, all weather
exterior material. Detached garages and carports shall be finished to match the
exterior of the main building.
      3.   Any front building elevation or elevation facing a street or right
of way shall include at least one (1) of the following: brick, stucco, stone,
or rock.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   G.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the B-
1 buffer zone shall incorporate the appropriate design standards described in
chapter 18 of this title.
   H.   Development Agreement: A development agreement shall be required for
all new development in the B-1 buffer zone. All applications for a rezone,
preliminary plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final
approval of the development agreement by the city council.
   I.   Lot Coverage: Lot coverage by all buildings, including main and
accessory buildings, shall be not more than sixty percent (60%) of the total
lot or parcel area. (Ord. 2009-34, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022;
Ord. 2024-17, 10-18-2024)
CHAPTER 10A
PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE (PF)
SECTION:
11-10A-1: Purpose
11-10A-2: Permitted Uses
11-10A-3: Conditional Uses
11-10A-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-10A-5: Yard Requirements
11-10A-6: Height Regulations
11-10A-7: Distance Between Buildings
11-10A-8: Lot Coverage
11-10A-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-10A-10: Signs
11-10A-11: Approvals Required
11-10A-12: Other Requirements
11-10A-1: PURPOSE:
The PF public facilities zone is established to provide areas for the location
and establishment of facilities which are maintained in public and quasi-public
ownership and use. This zone is intended to provide immediate recognition of
such properties upon the official zoning map of the city. It is intended that
the PF public facilities zone be applied to most of these properties for ease
of recognition; however, some of the uses will also be allowed in other zones
to accommodate public or quasi-public facilities in appropriate areas without
undue difficulty. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009)
11-10A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
PF public facilities zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in
this code:
   Churches.
   Parking lots, stand alone.
   Parks and open space.
   Public uses.
   Public works facilities. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-16, 7-8-
2014; Ord. 2024-06, 4-23-2024)
11-10A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
PF public facilities zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in
this code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4
of this title:
   Caretaker’s residence for mortuaries.
   Cemeteries.
   Colleges and universities.
   Mortuaries.
   Outdoor storage.
   Public utility facilities.
   Schools.
   Specialized schools.
   Vocational and technical training facilities. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009)
11-10A-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: No minimum. Lot area shall meet parking and landscaping
requirements.
   B.   Lot Width: No minimum. Lot width shall be adequate to meet setback
requirements. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009)
11-10A-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all structures shall be
ten feet (10').
   B.   Side Yard: None, except where the side property line abuts a
residential use. Then a side yard of equal width required for the widest side
yard in the adjacent zone shall be required.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard setback for all
structures shall be ten feet (10') on the street side.
   D.   Rear Yard: None, except where the rear property line abuts a
residential use. Then a rear yard of equal distance required for the rear yard
of the adjacent zone shall be required.
   E.   Accessory Structures: No accessory structure shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main building, or other accessory buildings, shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points. Accessory buildings shall be located at least two feet (2')
away from any side or rear property line. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009)
11-10A-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35') without first obtaining a conditional use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 4 of this title. All new structures exceeding two (2)
stories in height shall be served with elevators or escalators in addition to
the stairways otherwise required by law. No accessory building shall exceed
twenty feet (20') in height or the maximum height of the main building,
whichever is lower. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009)
11-10A-7: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between buildings shall comply with the requirements of
the currently adopted building codes. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009)
11-10A-8: LOT COVERAGE:
No limit, except landscaping and parking requirements shall be met. (Ord. 2009-
35, 11-24-2009)
11-10A-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009)
11-10A-10: SIGNS:
   A.   Sign Area: No monument sign shall exceed one hundred and twenty (120)
square feet in area.
   B.   Minimum Street Frontage: There shall be a minimum street frontage of
one hundred feet (100') per monument sign. In no case shall there be more than
two (2) monument signs per street frontage for any freestanding building on its
own lot or for any property that is owned, maintained, and operated by the
City.
   C.   Minimum Distance: No monument sign shall be located within one hundred
feet (100') of another monument or freestanding sign on the same side of the
street, whether on the same parcel or on an adjacent parcel.
   D.   Sign Height: Monument signs shall have at least a one-foot (1')
pedestal, and the illuminated cabinet shall not exceed nine feet (9') for a
total sign height of ten feet (10'). The height to the top of the sign as
measured from the street curb may vary depending upon landscaping, but the
combined height of the sign and any berming/landscaping shall not exceed ten
feet (10').
   E.   Reader Boards: Reader boards (changeable copy areas) and electronic
message centers (EMC) shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
monument sign area.
   F.   Freestanding Monument Signs: A monument sign allowed by this section
may be substituted with a freestanding monument sign.
   G.   Applicable Sign Code Regulations: Monument signs in the P-F Zone shall
comply with all other sign regulations found in chapter 15 of this title not
listed above. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-21, 8-9-2022)
11-10A-11: APPROVALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Site Plan: Development in the PF zone shall require approval of a site
plan in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the PF public facilities zone. All applications for a
rezone, preliminary plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final
approval of the development agreement by the city council. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-
24-2009)
11-10A-12: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of five percent (5%) of the total
project area shall be provided as landscaped open space for the following uses:
Public utility facilities and Public works facilities. All landscaping shall
comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title. Certain types of
landscaping to buffer noise, structures or other elements may be required along
any or all property lines if determined by the planning commission.
   B.   Garbage Dumpsters: Garbage dumpsters shall be completely screened when
adjacent to a residentially zoned parcel, or in any location where they can be
viewed from a public right of way.
   C.   Walls And Fences: Walls or fences may be required along all property
lines which are adjacent to a residential zone or use or public right of way.
The exact location, height and type of materials of the wall or fence shall be
approved by the planning commission as part of the site plan approval process.
   D.   Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Non-Permitted exterior building materials for main buildings are
vinyl siding, aluminum siding, fiber cement panels, unfinished poured concrete,
rusted metal, and sheet metal.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be built with a finished, all weather
exterior material. Detached garages and carports shall be finished to match the
exterior of the main building.
      3.   Any front building elevation or elevation facing a street or right
of way shall include at least one (1) of the following: brick, stone, or rock.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   G.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the PF
public facilities zone shall incorporate the appropriate design standards
described in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2009-35, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord.
2022-06, 2-22-2022; Ord. 2024-06, 4-23-2024; Ord. 2024-17, 10-18-2024)
CHAPTER 11
COMMERCIAL AND MANUFACTURING ZONES
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL ZONE (C-1)
SECTION:
11-11A-1: Purpose
11-11A-2: Permitted Uses
11-11A-3: Conditional Uses
11-11A-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-11A-5: Yard Regulations
11-11A-6: Height Regulation
11-11A-7: Distance Between Buildings
11-11A-8: Lot Coverage
11-11A-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-11A-10: Signs
11-11A-11: Approvals Required
11-11A-12: Other Requirements
11-11A-1: PURPOSE:
The C-1 commercial zone is established to provide areas for general office and
service uses, mixed with light retail uses. C-1 commercial zones would
generally be most appropriate in areas close to general commercial uses, near
hospitals and near other business areas. This zone is intended to provide
availability of professional and personal services conveniently to all
neighborhoods in the community, as well as for the region. (Ord. 2009-36, 11-
24-2009)
11-11A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
C-1 commercial zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code:
Business services.
Medical clinics.
Offices.
Parks and open space.
Personal services.
Physical therapy facilities.
Restaurants. (Ord. 2009-36, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2011-08, 8-23-2011)
11-11A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
C-1 commercial zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
Behavior, drug, or alcohol treatment facilities.
Churches.
Colleges and universities.
Convalescent facilities.
Daycare facilities.
Hospitals.
Nursing or rest homes.
Assisted living facility.
Preschools, commercial.
Public uses.
Schools.
Specialized schools.
Vocational and technical training facilities. (Ord. 2009-36, 11-24-2009; amd.
Ord. 2010-06, 1-26-2010; Ord. 2011-08, 8-23-2011; Ord. 2014-16, 7-8-2014; Ord.
2021-09, 6-22-2021)
11-11A-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 2009-36,
11-24-2009)
11-11A-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all buildings shall be
ten feet (10').
   B.   Side Yard: None, except where the side of the lot or parcel side or
rear lot line is immediately adjacent to a residential zone, a side yard of
equal width to that required for the widest side yard in the adjoining
residential zone shall be provided on the side adjacent to the residential
zone. A side yard may not be required for lots or parcels if the residential
zone is used for city parks, school grounds or church.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard for all buildings on
corner lots shall be ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to a street.
   D.   Rear Yard: None required, except where the rear of the lot or parcel is
immediately adjacent to a residential zone, a rear yard of equal width to that
required for the rear yard in the adjoining residential zone shall be provided.
Access must also be provided. A rear yard may not be required for lots or
parcels if the residential zone is used for city parks, school grounds or
churches.
   E.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory building shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main building, or other accessory buildings, shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points. Accessory buildings shall be located at least two feet (2')
away from any side or rear property line. (Ord. 2009-36, 11-24-2009)
11-11A-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35') without first obtaining a conditional use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 4 of this title. All new structures exceeding two (2)
stories in height shall be served with elevators or escalators, in addition to
the stairways otherwise required by law. No accessory building shall exceed
twenty feet (20') in height or the maximum height of the main building,
whichever is lower. (Ord. 2010-10, 6-22-2010)
11-11A-7: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between main buildings on the same lot or parcel shall be
twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2009-36, 11-24-2009)
11-11A-8: LOT COVERAGE:
Lot coverage by all buildings, including main and accessory buildings, shall be
not more than sixty percent (60%) of the total lot or parcel area. (Ord. 2009-
36, 11-24-2009)
11-11A-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-36, 11-24-2009)
11-11A-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-36, 11-24-2009)
11-11A-11: APPROVALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Site Plan Approval: Site plan approval shall be required for all new
buildings and changes of use in existing buildings in the C-1 commercial zone,
in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit shall be required for
all businesses and uses listed in section
11-11A-3 of this article in accordance with the provisions of chapter 4 of this
title.
   C.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the C-1 commercial zone. All applications for a rezone,
preliminary plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final
approval of the development agreement by the city council. (Ord. 2009-36, 11-
24-2009)
11-11A-12: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total
lot or parcel area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All landscaping
shall comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Garbage Dumpsters: Garbage dumpsters shall be completely screened when
adjacent to a residentially zoned parcel, or in any location where they can be
viewed from a public right of way.
   C.   Walls And Fences: Walls or fences may be required along all property
lines which are adjacent to a residential zone or use or public right of way.
The exact location, height and type of materials of the wall or fence shall be
approved by the planning commission as part of the site plan approval process.
   D.   Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Non-Permitted exterior building materials for main buildings are
vinyl siding, aluminum siding, fiber cement panels, unfinished poured concrete,
rusted metal, and sheet metal.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be built with a finished, all weather
exterior material. Detached garages and carports shall be finished to match the
exterior of the main building.
      3.   Any front building elevation or elevation facing a street or right
of way shall include at least one (1) of the following: brick, stone, or rock.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   G.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the C-
1 commercial zone shall incorporate the appropriate design standards described
in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2009-36, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 2-
22-2022; Ord. 2024-17, 10-18-2024)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL ZONE (C-2)
SECTION:
11-11B-1: Purpose
11-11B-2: Permitted Uses
11-11B-3: Conditional Uses
11-11B-4: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-11B-5: Yard Requirements
11-11B-6: Height Regulation
11-11B-7: Distance Between Buildings
11-11B-8: Lot Coverage
11-11B-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-11B-10: Signs
11-11B-11: Approvals Required
11-11B-12: Other Requirements
11-11B-13: Motor Vehicle Sales
11-11B-1: PURPOSE:
The C-2 commercial zone is established to provide areas for general commercial
and business activities in appropriate locations within the city. This zone is
established to encourage attractiveness and to assure safe, convenient and
efficient access to and from the public street system. To ensure a safe,
healthful and pleasing commercial area, certain heavy commercial and service
uses are allowed only upon conditional use review. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-24-2009)
11-11B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
C-2 commercial zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code:
   Business services.
   Fireworks stands.
   Hotels.
   Medical clinics.
   Mobile food vendors.
   Motor vehicle sales.
   Offices.
   Parks and open space.
   Personal services.
   Pet grooming facilities.
   Physical therapy facilities.
   Restaurants.
   Retail stores.
   Retail tobacco specialty business.
   Temporary or seasonal merchants.
   Theaters.
If any use permitted by this section is classified by the currently adopted
building codes as an “H occupancy” (hazardous), it shall become a conditional
use, subject to the requirements of chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-
24-2009; amd. Ord. 2010-06, 1-26-2010; Ord. 2010-10, 6-22-2010; Ord. 2011-08,
8-23-2011; Ord. 2012-03, 6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012; Ord. 2020-06, 2-25-2020)
11-11B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
C-2 commercial zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this
code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in chapter 4 of
this title:
   Amusement and recreation facilities.
   Auditoriums.
   Automobile repair.
   Behavior, drug, or alcohol treatment facilities.
   Churches.
   Colleges and universities.
   Convenience stores.
   Daycare facilities.
   Distribution, limited (subject to supplementary regulations in chapter 13 of
this title and design standards in chapter 18 of this title).
   Manufacturing, light (subject to supplementary regulations in chapter 13 of
this title and design standards in chapter 18 of this title).
   Nondepository lending establishments.
   Off highway vehicle sales.
   Pawn and secondhand businesses.
   Preschools, commercial.
   Public uses.
   Schools.
   Specialized schools.
   Taverns.
   Taxidermists.
   Veterinary services.
   Vocational and technical training facilities. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-24-2009;
amd. Ord. 2010-06, 1-26-2010; Ord. 2011-08, 8-23-2011; Ord. 2014-09, 4-22-2014;
Ord. 2014-16, 7-8-2014; Ord. 2015-01, 2-24-2015; Ord. 2020-06, 2-25-2020)
11-11B-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 2009-37,
11-24-2009)
11-11B-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all buildings shall be
five feet (5').
   B.   Side Yard: None, except where the side lot line or side parcel line is
immediately adjacent to a residential zone, a side yard of equal width to that
required for the widest side yard in the adjoining residential zone shall be
provided on the side adjacent to the residential zone. A side yard may not be
required for lots or parcels if the residential zone is used for city parks,
school grounds or churches.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard for all buildings on
corner lots shall be ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to a street.
   D.   Rear Yard: None required, except where the rear of the lot or parcel is
immediately adjacent to a residential zone, a rear yard of equal width to that
required for the rear yard in the adjoining residential zone shall be provided.
Access must also be provided. A rear yard may not be required for lots or
parcels if the residential zone is used for city parks, school grounds or
churches.
   E.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory building shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main building, or other accessory buildings, shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points. Accessory buildings shall be located at least two feet (2')
away from any side or rear property line. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-24-2009)
11-11B-6: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35') without first obtaining a conditional use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 4 of this title. All new structures exceeding two (2)
stories in height shall be served with elevators or escalators in addition to
the stairways otherwise required by law. No accessory building shall exceed
twenty feet (20') in height or the maximum height of the main building,
whichever is lower. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-24-2009)
11-11B-7: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between buildings shall meet the requirements of the
currently adopted building code. (Ord. 2010-10, 6-22-2010)
11-11B-8: LOT COVERAGE:
No requirement, except as may be dictated by yard requirements, landscaping
requirements and compliance with off street parking provisions. (Ord. 2009-37,
11-24-2009)
11-11B-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-24-2009)
11-11B-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-24-2009)
11-11B-11: APPROVALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Site Plan: Site plan approval shall be required for all new buildings
and changes of use in existing buildings in the C-2 commercial zone in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit shall be required for
all businesses and uses listed in section
11-11B-3 of this article in accordance with the provisions of chapter 4 of this
title.
   C.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the C-2 commercial zone. All applications for a rezone,
preliminary plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final
approval of the development agreement by the city council. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-
24-2009)
11-11B-12: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total
lot or parcel area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All landscaping
shall comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Garbage Dumpsters: Garbage dumpsters shall be completely screened when
adjacent to a residentially zoned parcel, or in any location where they can be
viewed from a public right of way.
   C.   Walls And Fences: Walls or fences may be required along all property
lines which are adjacent to a residential zone or use or public right of way.
The exact location, height and type of materials of the wall or fence shall be
approved by the planning commission as part of the site plan approval process.
   D.   Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Non-Permitted exterior building materials for main buildings are
vinyl siding, aluminum siding, fiber cement panels, unfinished poured concrete,
rusted metal, and sheet metal.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be built with a finished, all weather
exterior material. Detached garages and carports shall be finished to match the
exterior of the main building.
      3.   Any front building elevation or elevation facing a street or right
of way shall include at least one (1) of the following: brick, stone, or rock.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   G.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the C-
2 commercial zone shall incorporate the appropriate design standards described
in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2009-37, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 2-
22-2022; Ord. 2024-17, 10-18-2024)
11-11B-13: MOTOR VEHICLE SALES:
Motor vehicle sales is a permitted use in the C-2 commercial zones as
designated in this title and is not allowed in any other zone within the city.
Applications for motor vehicle sales shall be submitted and reviewed as a
permitted use in accordance with section
11-11B-2 of this code.
   A.   Purposes: The purposes of this section and any rules, regulations,
standards and specifications adopted pursuant hereto are to:
      1.   Minimize Impact: Accommodate such motor vehicle sales with minimal
impact in C-2 commercial zones in terms of compatible infill, scale, design and
appearance of buildings.
      2.   Terms And Conditions: Set forth standardized terms and conditions
for motor vehicle sales establishments and procedures for review and approval
of the same.
   B.   Standards: The following standards and conditions shall apply to motor
vehicle sales establishments:
      1.   Approval: No motor vehicle sales establishment shall be developed,
erected, constructed, reconstructed, installed, altered, licensed, or relocated
without review and approval by the Clearfield city community development
department.
      2.   Minimum Size: The development, erection, construction,
reconstruction, installation, alteration, licensing, or relocation of any motor
vehicle sales establishment shall be operated and maintained on a parcel that
is not less than one (1) acre in size and must be completely contained within a
single parcel of land and shall only be used for the purpose of motor vehicle
sales.
      3.   Permanent Structures: All buildings constructed for the purpose of
motor vehicle sales, storage, repair, or other motor vehicle sales related
purposes shall be of permanent construction without a chassis, hitch, or
wheels, or other features that would make the structure mobile.
      4.   On-Site Office: A permanent on-site office is required.
      5.   Architectural Detail: The following architectural requirements shall
apply to motor vehicle sales establishments, and is intended to create motor
vehicle sales buildings with finished and detailed elevations for all exposures
with human scale and interest through the use of varied forms, materials,
details, and colors.
         a.   Street Frontage Facade: No rectangular area greater than thirty
percent (30%) of any story of a street facing facade, as measured from floor to
floor, may be windowless. No horizontal segment of any story of a street facing
facade may be windowless in an area greater than fifteen feet (15') in width.
         b.   Rooflines May Be Flat Or Pitched: Roofing shall not be of vivid
primary colors (i.e., red, blue or yellow). Rooftop equipment shall be screened
by roof components, parapets, cornices or other architectural features.
Galvanized hoods and vents shall be painted to match the roof color.
      6.   Fencing:
         a.   A six foot (6') fence must be installed on all property lines
adjacent to residential zones or uses.
         b.   Fencing shall be stamped masonry, wrought iron or a mixture of
both.
         c.   Vinyl and chain-link fencing is expressly prohibited.
      7.   Landscaping Requirement:
         a.   Landscaped area shall be provided in the high traffic and areas
visible from the public right-of-way adjacent to any motor vehicle sales
establishment, as well as covering large and long exterior walls.
         b.   A landscaped buffer of no less than five feet (5') shall be
provided between the street which faces a right-of-way and the property line,
as depicted on the plats of record at the Davis County recorder's office. The
five feet (5') shall be created and installed at the business owner's expense.
The five feet (5') required parking/display areas shall count towards the ten
percent (10%) landscape requirement. The buffer must consist of native
materials and shall not be placed on top of any existing non-permeable surface.
      8.   Signage: See chapter 15 of this tittle
      9.   Parking, Inventory Storage, And Delivery:
         a.   No motor vehicle may be displayed outside within five feet (5')
of the primary street right-of-way.
         b.   Off-street parking must be provided for customers and employees
(not to be used for inventory) at a ratio of one (1) stall per two hundred
fifty (250) square feet of indoor office/sales area and one (1) stall for every
ten (10) inventory vehicles (all fractions are rounded up to the next whole
stall), with a minimum of four (4) stalls provided.
         c.   Parking for customers, employees, and inventory must be on non-
permeable surfaces, such as pavement, asphalt, pavers, or combination thereof
and striped and marked with signage and cannot block entrance/exit.
         d.   ADA parking stalls shall be provided in compliance with or better
than the standards detailed in the Utah State Accessibility Code and ADA
standards, including quantity, size, location, and accessibility.
         e.   Loading/delivery of inventory shall occur on the property, not on
public streets; vehicles are not permitted to back directly onto, or from,
public streets.
         f.   Inventory storage, customer parking, and employee parking cannot
be double parked.
      10.   Lighting: For all motor vehicle sales uses, lighting plans shall be
required which illustrate the type and location of lighting proposed for
structures, walkways and parking lots. Lighting shall be designed, located and
directed so as to eliminate glare and minimize reflection of light into
neighboring properties. With the exception of security lights, lighting for the
motor vehicle sales lot shall not occur past ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      11.   Maintenance: The property must be maintained and kept clean. This
includes sweeping and maintaining the asphalt, keeping the property and
establishment free of debris, trash and weeds, etc.
   C.   Rules And Regulations:
      1.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: Each motor vehicle sales license
shall comply with the applicable zoning requirements set forth in title 11 of
this code, or the license is subject to denial. (Ord. 2020-06, 2-25-2020)
ARTICLE C. COMMERCIAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE (C-R)
SECTION:
11-11C-1: Purpose
11-11C-2: Permitted Uses
11-11C-3: Conditional Uses
11-11C-4: Area, Frontage And Yard Regulations
11-11C-5: Height Regulations
11-11C-6: Distance Between Buildings
11-11C-7: Density
11-11C-8: Lot Coverage
11-11C-9: Parking, Loading And Access
11-11C-10: Signs
11-11C-11: Approvals Required
11-11C-12: Other Requirements
11-11C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the C-R commercial residential zone is to provide for and
encourage a mixture of high quality, compatible commercial and residential uses
in certain areas of the city. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be permitted in the
C-R commercial residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth
in this code:
   A.   In the commercial portions of the property:
Business services.
Hotels.
Offices.
Parks and open space.
Personal services.
Restaurants.
Retail stores.
Theaters.
   B.   In the residential portions of the property:
None. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
C-R commercial residential zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth
in this code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in
chapter 4 of this title: (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
   A.   In the commercial portion of the property:
Amusement and recreation facilities.
Auditoriums.
Medical clinics.
Mobile food vendors.
Physical therapy facilities.
Preschools, commercial.
Public uses. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2010-06, 1-26-2010; Ord.
2011-08, 8-23-2011; Ord. 2014-16, 7-8-2014)
   B.   In the residential portions of the property:
Multiple-family dwellings. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-4: AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REGULATIONS:
See section
11-11C-11 of this article. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
See section
11-11C-11 of this article. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-6: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The distance between buildings shall be determined by the current building
code. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-7: DENSITY:
A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the total finished floor area of all
development in the C-R commercial residential zone shall be dedicated to
commercial uses. The density for the residential portions of the development
shall be up to ten (10) dwelling units per acre. Up to twenty (20) dwelling
units per acre may be allowed when the total percentage of the finished floor
area dedicated to commercial uses is equal to or greater than thirty percent
(30%). Up to thirty (30) dwelling units per acre may be allowed when the total
percentage of the finished floor area dedicated to commercial uses is equal to
or greater than forty percent (40%). Additional densities above thirty (30)
dwelling units per acre may be considered for projects with a commercial floor
area percentage that exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the total finished floor
area. The exact density shall be determined by the city through the development
agreement. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-8: LOT COVERAGE:
See section
11-11C-11 of this article. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-9: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. When a building contains both commercial and
residential occupancies, the parking requirements may be combined. (Ord. 2009-
38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-10: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009)
11-11C-11: APPROVALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Site Plan: Development in the C-R commercial residential zone shall
require approval of a site plan in accordance with chapter 5 of this title. The
site plan process shall be used to determine density, minimum area, frontage,
lot width, setback, lot coverage, height, landscaping, fencing, exterior
building material, floor area, and other applicable regulations.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit shall be required for
all uses listed in the conditional use section of this article, in accordance
with the provisions of chapter 4 of this title.
   C.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the C-R commercial residential zone. All applications for a
rezone, preliminary plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final
approval of the development agreement by the city council. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-
24-2009)
11-11C-12: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total
lot or parcel area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All landscaping
shall comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Garbage Dumpsters: Garbage dumpsters shall be completely screened when
adjacent to a residentially zoned parcel, or in any location where they can be
viewed from a public right of way.
   C.   Walls And Fences: Walls or fences may be required along all property
lines which are adjacent to a residential zone or use or public right of way.
The exact location, height and type of materials of the wall or fence shall be
approved by the planning commission as part of the site plan approval process.
   D.   Development Timing: The commercial portion of each phase of development
shall be completed prior to the development of the residential portion.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   G.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the C-
R commercial residential zone shall incorporate the appropriate design
standards described in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2009-38, 11-24-2009;
amd. Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
ARTICLE D. MANUFACTURING ZONE (M-1)
SECTION:
11-11D-1: Purpose
11-11D-2: Permitted And Conditional Uses
11-11D-3: Area And Frontage Regulations
11-11D-4: Yard Regulations
11-11D-5: Height Regulation
11-11D-6: Distance Between Buildings
11-11D-7: Lot Coverage
11-11D-8: Parking, Loading And Access
11-11D-9: Signs
11-11D-10: Site Plan Approval
11-11D-11: Other Requirements
11-11D-1: PURPOSE:
The M-1 manufacturing zone is established to provide areas in the city where
processing, assembling, manufacturing, warehousing and storage activities may
take place, and for incidental service facilities to serve the manufacturing
area. This zone is intended to encourage sound development subject to
regulations necessary to assure the orderly growth of the city and to protect
the residential and commercial land uses from noise and other disturbances.
Limited retail and services are also provided for to take advantage of existing
traffic corridors, while at the same time not introducing uses which cater to
the general public and which create conflicts when mixed with manufacturing
uses. (Ord. 2009-39, 11-24-2009)
11-11D-2: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be
permitted in the M-1 manufacturing zone upon compliance with the requirements
set forth in this code:
Automobile repair.
Business services.
Laboratories.
Manufacturing.
Medical clinics.
Mobile food vendors.
Offices.
Parks and open space.
Personal services.
Pet grooming facilities.
Physical therapy facilities.
Public uses.
Restaurants.
Retail stores.
Warehouses.
   B.   The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed
in the M-1 manufacturing zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth
in this code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in
chapter 4 of this title:
Daycare facilities.
Greenhouses.
Landscape supply yards.
Sexually oriented businesses.
Tattoo or body piercing establishment.
Vocational and technical training facilities.
   C.   Uses which create traffic hazards, excessive noise, dust, fumes, odors,
smoke, vapor, vibration or industrial waste disposal problems for adjacent
residential uses shall not be permitted. (Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
11-11D-3: AREA AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be seven thousand (7,000) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback
line, shall be fifty feet (50').
   C.   Lot Width, Corner Lots: Each corner lot shall have a minimum lot width,
as measured at the front setback line, of sixty feet (60'). (Ord. 2009-39, 11-
24-2009)
11-11D-4: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback for all buildings shall be
ten feet (10').
   B.   Side Yard: No minimum, except where the lot or parcel side lot line is
immediately adjacent to a residential zone, a side yard of twenty five feet
(25') shall be required on the side adjacent to the residential zone.
   C.   Side Yard, Corner Lots: The minimum side yard for all buildings on
corner lots shall be ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to a street.
   D.   Rear Yard: No minimum, except where the lot or parcel rear lot line is
immediately adjacent to a residential zone, a rear yard of twenty five feet
(25') shall be required.
   E.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory building shall be located in the
required front yard area. The minimum distance between accessory buildings and
main building, or other accessory buildings, shall be six feet (6') at the
closest points. Accessory buildings shall be located at least two feet (2')
away from any side or rear property line. (Ord. 2009-39, 11-24-2009)
11-11D-5: HEIGHT REGULATION:
No main building shall be erected to a height greater than forty five feet
(45'). All new structures exceeding two (2) stories in height shall be served
with elevators or escalators, in addition to the stairways otherwise required
by law. No accessory building shall exceed twenty five feet (25') in height.
(Ord. 2010-10, 6-22-2010)
11-11D-6: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between buildings shall meet the requirements of the
currently adopted building code. (Ord. 2009-39, 11-24-2009)
11-11D-7: LOT COVERAGE:
No requirement, except as may be dictated by the requirements of the currently
adopted building code, yard requirements, landscaping requirements and
compliance with off street parking provisions. (Ord. 2009-39, 11-24-2009)
11-11D-8: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
See chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2009-39, 11-24-2009)
11-11D-9: SIGNS:
See chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2009-39, 11-24-2009)
11-11D-10: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
Site plan approval shall be required for all new buildings and changes of use
in existing buildings in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of this
title. (Ord. 2009-39, 11-24-2009)
11-11D-11: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of five percent (5%) of the total
lot or parcel area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All yard areas
between a street frontage and buildings, parking areas, or storage areas which
are not used for vehicular or pedestrian access shall be landscaped with a
minimum buffer landscaping depth of ten feet (10'). All landscaping shall
comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Outdoor Storage: All outdoor storage shall comply with the regulations
of chapter 13 of this title.
   C.   Walls And Fences: Walls or fences may be required along all property
lines which are adjacent to a residential zone or use or public right of way.
The exact location, height and type of materials of the wall or fence shall be
approved by the planning commission as part of the site plan approval process.
   D.   Garbage Dumpsters: Garbage dumpsters shall be completely screened when
adjacent to a residentially zoned parcel, or in any location where they can be
viewed from a public right of way.
   E.   Sexually Oriented Businesses: Sexually oriented businesses shall comply
with the requirements of chapter 13 of this title.
   F.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   G.   Restrictions: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   H.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the M-
1 manufacturing zone shall incorporate the appropriate design standards
described in chapter 18 of this title.
   I.   Development Agreement: A development agreement may be required for all
new development in the M-1 manufacturing zone. All applications for a rezone,
preliminary plat, or site plan approval shall be conditioned upon final
approval of the development agreement by the city council. (Ord. 2009-39, 11-
24-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 3-10-2020; Ord. 2021-11, 7-27-2021; Ord. 2022-06,
2-22-2022)
ARTICLE E. DOWNTOWN REDEVELOPMENT ZONE (D-R)
SECTION:
11-11E-1: Purpose
11-11E-2: Permitted Uses
11-11E-3: Conditional Uses
11-11E-4: Approvals Required
11-11E-5: Regulations For Residential Development
11-11E-6: Height Regulations
11-11E-7: Distance Between Buildings
11-11E-8: Parking, Loading And Access
11-11E-9: Signs
11-11E-10: Other Requirements
11-11E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the D-R downtown redevelopment zone is to provide for
attractive, vibrant, and safe urban development or redevelopment along major
commercial/transportation corridors and downtown areas in the city; to
encourage the development of vacant or underutilized parcels of land; and to
encourage the replacement, renovation, or rehabilitation of dilapidated or
decaying structures. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-25-2014)
11-11E-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
D-R downtown redevelopment zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth
in this code:
Auditoriums.
Business services.
Hotels.
Medical clinics.
Offices.
Parks and open space.
Personal services.
Physical therapy facilities.
Restaurants.
Retail stores.
Theaters. (Ord. 2010-11, 6-22-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-08, 8-23-2011)
11-11E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be allowed in the
D-R downtown redevelopment zone upon compliance with the requirements set forth
in this code and upon obtaining a conditional use permit as specified in
chapter 4 of this title:
Amusement and recreation facilities.
Daycare facilities.
Multiple-family dwellings, subject to the provisions of section
11-11E-5 of this article.
Preschools, commercial.
Public uses.
Single-family dwellings.
Taverns.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 2010-11, 6-22-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-08, 8-23-2011;
Ord. 2014-16, 7-8-2014)
11-11E-4: APPROVALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Site Plan: Development in the D-R downtown redevelopment zone shall
require approval of a site plan in accordance with chapter 5 of this title. The
site plan process shall be used to determine density, minimum area, frontage,
lot width, setback, lot coverage, height, landscaping, fencing, exterior
building material, floor area, and other applicable regulations.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit shall be required for
all uses set forth as such in section
11-11E-3 of this article. The permit shall be obtained in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 2010-11, 6-22-2010)
   C.   Development Agreement: A development agreement shall be required for
all new development in the D-R downtown redevelopment zone. Any approval of an
application for a rezone, preliminary plat, or site plan approval shall be
conditioned upon final approval of the development agreement by the city
council, execution of said agreement by the parties, and the recording of said
approved and executed agreement against the subject property. (Ord. 2014-28,
11-25-2014)
11-11E-5: REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Commercial Use Required: Except as otherwise allowed through a
development agreement in order to facilitate projects which, in the city's
opinion, will encourage development of underutilized parcels and/or the
replacement, renovation, or rehabilitation of dilapidated and decaying
structures, the following requirements will apply: 1) residential dwelling
units shall not be permitted unless as part of a commercial development; and 2)
nonresidential uses are required in the minimum habitable floor depth on the
first story of all building frontage along a public street, including SR 126
(State Street and North Main Street), SR-193 (700 South), and SR-108 (1700
South).
   B.   Floor Area: Minimum unit size shall be no less than seven hundred (700)
square feet. Average unit size and the number of bedrooms in each unit may be
specified in the development agreement. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-25-2014)
11-11E-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The minimum height in the D-R downtown redevelopment zone shall be two (2)
stories. The maximum height shall be six (6) stories. The minimum story height
shall be ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2010-11, 6-22-2010)
11-11E-7: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between buildings shall be determined by the current
building code. (Ord. 2010-11, 6-22-2010)
11-11E-8: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
   A.   Parking, loading, and access requirements shall be established through
the development agreement. Consideration for said requirements should be given
to market studies, engineering analysis and other reliable sources as
determined by the city. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-14-2015)
   B.   Parking requirements may be combined for buildings with multiple uses
or occupancies.
   C.   Except as otherwise permitted through a development agreement, all
parking shall be located to the rear or side of a main building. (Ord. 2010-11,
6-22-2010)
11-11E-9: SIGNS:
Signs in the D-R downtown redevelopment zone shall conform to the regulations
set forth in chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 2010-11, 6-22-2010)
11-11E-10: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Open Space: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total
lot or parcel area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All landscaping
shall comply with the provisions of chapter 21 of this title.
   B.   Garbage Dumpsters: Garbage dumpsters shall be completely screened when
adjacent to a residentially zoned parcel, or in any location where they can be
viewed from a public right of way.
   C.   Walls And Fences: Walls or fences may be required along all property
lines which are adjacent to a residential zone or use or public right of way.
The exact location, height and type of materials of the wall or fence shall be
approved by the planning commission as part of the site plan approval process.
Chainlink fencing shall not be permitted in the D-R downtown redevelopment
zone.
   D.   Development Timing: Except as otherwise authorized through the
development agreement, the commercial portion of each phase of development
shall be completed prior to the development of the residential portion.
   E.   Footings And Foundation Required: All main buildings shall be
constructed on a permanent footing and foundation.
   F.   Prohibited: No area needed to meet the lot width, frontage, area,
setback or other requirements of this article may be divided, sold, or leased
separate from such lot or building.
   G.   Design Standards: All new site development or construction in the D-
R downtown redevelopment zone shall incorporate the appropriate design
standards described in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2010-11, 6-22-2010; amd.
Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
ARTICLE F. MIXED USE ZONE (MU)
SECTION:
11-11F-1: Purpose
11-11F-2: Area Requirements
11-11F-3: Location
11-11F-4: Ownership
11-11F-5: Zone Establishment
11-11F-6: Adoption By Ordinance
11-11F-7: Findings For Approval
11-11F-8: Development Review
11-11F-9: Modifications Or Amendments
11-11F-10: MDP Administration
11-11F-11: MDP Interpretation
11-11F-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The mixed use (MU) zoning district is intended to provide a variety of
land uses that are purposely combined. Mixed use areas are intended to support
a broad range of commercial, office, entertainment, recreational, civic and
residential uses within single buildings (vertical mixed use), or within
neighborhoods (horizontal mixed use). The mixed use zoning permits
nonresidential development (i.e., commercial or employment), or nonresidential
and residential development, but it does not permit residential development
without a substantial nonresidential component.
   B.   The following objectives are among those sought to be accomplished in
the MU zone:
      1.   To assist in the fulfillment of the goals, objectives and policies
of the Clearfield City master plan and any amendments thereto.
      2.   To accommodate variations in building design, lot arrangements and
land uses that are of high quality.
      3.   To provide for a coordinated and compatibly arranged variety of land
uses through innovative site planning.
      4.   To provide a maximum choice in the types of environments for
commercial, employment, and residential uses and facilities.
      5.   To encourage an efficient and safe traffic circulation, including
the separation of pedestrian from vehicular traffic.
      6.   To encourage economy in the construction and maintenance of streets
and utilities.
      7.   To encourage the provision of usable open space.
      8.   To maintain a reasonable quality of living standard and minimize
adverse environmental impact on surrounding areas during development. (Ord.
2013-01, 1-8-2013)
11-11F-2: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum area of an MU zone shall be forty (40) acres. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-8-
2013)
11-11F-3: LOCATION:
MU developments shall be located at transportation nodes and along
transportation corridors and other locations where "walkable" components (e.g.,
housing choices, convenience commercial, employment community facilities,
transportation linkages, parks or other open space, schools, churches) are
already present, planned, or where the size and scale of development is such
that said components can be provided within the project itself. The location of
the MU zone shall typically be within a quarter (1/4) mile, or a five (5)
minute walking distance, of the elements described above. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-8-
2013)
11-11F-4: OWNERSHIP:
The development shall either be entirely owned by a single legal entity
(whether by an individual, partnership or other corporate entity), or under
option to purchase by such at the time of the application; otherwise, the
application shall be filed jointly by all owners of the property. (Ord. 2013-
01, 1-8-2013)
11-11F-5: ZONE ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   Master Development Plan (MDP): Each proposed MU zone shall be
accompanied by a master development plan ("MDP"), a document prepared by the
applicant, which shall incorporate the provisions below and include, at
minimum, the following items:
      1.   Project area.
      2.   Land use regulation plan.
      3.   Residential and nonresidential acreage, density, units and square
footage.
      4.   Permitted uses and conditional uses.
      5.   Development standards (as described in this article).
      6.   Maximum building heights.
      7.   Circulation and roads (e.g., delineating private and public).
      8.   Architectural controls (i.e., conceptual building elevations and
design schemes).
      9.   Parking and loading standards.
      10.   Open and public spaces.
      11.   Phasing plan.
      12.   Sign standards.
   B.   Purpose Of MDP: An MDP is intended to create well designed, pedestrian
oriented, economically viable neighborhoods, and achieve the related goals and
objectives identified in the city's master plan, particularly for the mixed use
land use classification.
   C.   Requirements Of MDP: An MDP should be a graphically oriented
development code, clearly describing the required urban and architectural
design patterns, while also carefully regulating the uses of the buildings and
lots within the project area. An MDP should also specify the allowed
residential densities and intensity of the development that may be achieved for
the entire project area. It should also describe and regulate the design of the
public space network that provides the framework and infrastructure for the
specified MU zoned property, focusing on a circulation network that balances
the use of all travel modes, including automobiles, pedestrians, bicycles and
transit.
   D.   Protection Provisions: In the development of the MDP in the mixed use
(MU) zone the following provisions shall be considered in order to protect the
intended characteristics of the zone:
      1.   Development Standards: Standards, including the following, but not
limited to, area and frontage regulations, yard requirements, height
regulations, lot coverage, parking, loading and access shall be established in
the zoning amendment process (pursuant to chapter 6 of this title) in
conjunction with a submitted and approved MDP.
      2.   Mixture Of Unit Type: The blend or mixture of residential unit type
(e.g., condominiums, apartments, twin homes, single-family, unit size, etc.),
within a development shall be determined depending upon the size, scale, and
location of the project. Housing units shall include a mix of housing types,
housing size, and number of bedrooms.
      3.   Traffic: The applicant shall demonstrate that all potential traffic
concerns regarding existing intersections, substandard streets, inadequate
improvements, and access are mitigated to the city's satisfaction. As
determined by the city engineer, a traffic study may be required.
      4.   Surrounding Properties: The applicant shall demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the city, that sufficient measures have been incorporated into
the development plan to assure that adjacent properties will not experience
significant impacts as a result of the proposed development.
      5.   Pedestrian Realm: In order to achieve an overall "walkable"
development, appropriate land uses, pedestrian connections, cross easements,
common driveways, consistent site standards, etc., must be coordinated within
the respective MU zone area, even though properties may be individually owned.
   E.   Minimum And Exclusive Standards: The requirements of an MDP regarding
site development, massing, materials, construction methods, forms and colors
are mandatory; standards that do not meet these requirements are not
acceptable. The requirements for an MDP are minimum standards for the promotion
of the public health, safety, and general welfare in a mixed use zoning
district.
   F.   Conformance To MDP: Phased developments and approved individual plats
and site plans shall conform to the adopted MDP. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-8-2013)
11-11F-6: ADOPTION BY ORDINANCE:
   A.   Execution: The MDP shall be adopted by ordinance, establishing the MU
zone district, for a given property or project area. A development agreement
between the city and the applicant may be required by the city council and
executed before the zoning designation shall be effective.
   B.   Municipal Code Provisions: The MDP adopted by ordinance will be
considered a subpart of this title and be identified by MDP project name.
   C.   Relationship Of Master Development Plan To Municipal Code:
      1.   Municipal Code And Zoning Ordinance Provision: An adopted MDP is a
subpart of the zoning ordinance. As is the case with other provisions of the
zoning ordinance, all other provisions of this code continue to apply within an
approved MDP.
      2.   Conflict Between MDP And The Zoning Ordinance: If a conflict occurs
between a requirement or other provision of an adopted MDP and a requirement or
other provision of the zoning ordinance, the provision of the MDP shall control
regardless of whether the MDP provision is more liberal or more restrictive. In
any instance where there is no conflict between a requirement of an adopted MDP
and a requirement or other provision of the zoning ordinance because a
development related subject is addressed in the zoning ordinance, but not in
the MDP, the zoning ordinance provision shall apply.
      3.   Conflict Between MDP And Municipal Code: In any instance where there
is no conflict between a requirement of MDP and a requirement or other
provision of this code because a regulatory subject is addressed elsewhere in
this code, but not in an adopted MDP, such as, by way of example, but without
limitation, the home occupation requirements set forth in chapter 16 of this
title, the municipal code provision is intended to, and shall, apply. (Ord.
2013-01, 1-8-2013)
11-11F-7: FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Findings: The planning commission must make the following findings to
approve a recommendation to the city council for rezoning the property to the
MU zone:
      1.   The MDP is consistent with the statement of objectives of a mixed
use (MU) zone contained in this article.
      2.   To the extent that the MDP departs from zoning and subdivision
regulations otherwise applicable to the property (including, but not limited
to, density, bulk and use) it is nevertheless still consistent with adopted
master plan land use maps and policies. Architectural controls and other
quality measurements of design are clearly articulated in the MDP.
      3.   The ratio of residential to nonresidential uses in the planned
development is consistent with the master plan; specifically, that the MDP
provides a substantial nonresidential component in comparison with the
residential uses proposed.
      4.   The proposed development can be adequately served by public
facilities and complies with the minimum design criteria for these public
facilities, including, but not limited to, water, storm drain, sewer, and
roads. Any upgrades or necessary improvements to public facilities have been
clearly identified and the responsibility of construction and costs will not be
incurred by the city.
      5.   Any development related adverse impacts, such as traffic, noise,
orders, visual nuisances, or other similar adverse effects to adjacent
development and neighborhoods, are mitigated by improvements or modifications
either on site or within the public right of way.
      6.   The common open space provided in the MDP exceeds the minimum area
and improvement standards.
      7.   Where an MDP proposes development over a period of years, the
sufficiency of the terms and conditions intended to protect the interests of
the public, residents and owners of the project area and the integrity of the
plan and, where the plan provides for phases, the period in which the
application for each phase must be filed.
      8.   That each individual unit or phase of the development, as well as
the total development, can exist independently and be capable of creating a
good environment in the locality and be as desirable and stable in any phase as
in the total development.
      9.   The project will not result in material prejudice of surrounding
properties, and will not endanger the health, safety, and welfare of the
community.
      10.   The MDP has a beneficial relationship to the neighborhood and area
in which it is proposed to be established. This also includes providing a
thorough analysis and adequate documentation of the impact the zoning may have
on the city's public schools.
   B.   Length Of Approval: Construction, as defined by the building code, will
be required to commence within two (2) years of the date of the approval of the
MDP. After construction commences, the MDP shall remain valid as long as it is
consistent with the approved specific project phasing plan as set forth in the
MDP. It is anticipated that the specific project phasing may require planning
commission review and reevaluation of the project at specified points in the
development of the project. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-8-2013)
11-11F-8: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW:
   A.   As determined through the MDP approval, portions of the project area
that are specifically given site plan approval will proceed directly to the
building and engineering permitting process (pursuant to section
11-2-3 of this title). Portions of the project that are not identified as
obtaining site plan approval at the time of the MDP approval, will proceed
through the site plan approval process (pursuant to section
11-5-1 of this title).
   B.   Should at any time, the determination be made by the zoning
administrator, or assigned designee, that submitted construction documents are
not in substantial conformance with the approved MDP, the submittal will be
referred to and reviewed by the planning commission and will follow the
modification procedures as outlined in this article.
   C.   Construction without approval is prohibited. No building or zoning
permit shall be issued for any use under an MU zoning designation prior to
approval of the MDP as prescribed herein. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-8-2013)
11-11F-9: MODIFICATIONS OR AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Modifications to an adopted MDP, which constitute a change in concept,
land use, density, unit type, or configuration of any portion or phase of the
MDP will justify review of the amendments by the planning commission and the
city council.
      1.   The proposed amendments will be brought to the planning commission
and city council for review and determination. Planning commission will make a
recommendation to the city council on whether the proposed modifications are of
a material change to the MDP. City council will make a final determination on
whether the proposed modifications constitute a material change.
      2.   If the proposed modification is determined by the city council to be
of a material change, the project will be required to go through the zoning
amendment process as outlined in chapter 6 of this title and pay applicable
application and review fees. An amended MDP will be required to be adopted by
ordinance.
   B.   Future changes of use on developed properties in the MU zone may still
be subject to site plan or conditional use approval. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-8-2013)
11-11F-10: MDP ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Responsibility For Administration: The MDP shall be administered by the
zoning administrator, or assigned designee and the other decision making
authorities identified in the plan. All findings, approvals, determinations and
discretionary judgments, including those delegated to subordinates pursuant to
the MDP by the zoning administrator, or assigned designees, shall be carried
out in a manner consistent with the purposes of the adopted MDP, the city
zoning ordinance, the city master plan, and the orderly development of the
city. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-8-2013)
11-11F-11: MDP INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Interpretation: Whenever the zoning administrator determines that the
meaning or applicability of any requirement of the MDP is subject to
interpretation generally or as applied to a specific case, the zoning
administrator shall issue an official interpretation.
   B.   Findings And Basis For Interpretation: The issuance of an
interpretation shall include findings stating the basis for the interpretation.
The basis for an interpretation may include technological changes or new
industry standards. The issuance of an interpretation shall also include a
finding documenting the consistency of the interpretation with the city master
plan and zoning ordinance.
   C.   Record Of Interpretations: Official interpretations shall be in writing
and shall quote the provisions of the MDP being interpreted, the applicability
in the specific or general circumstances that caused the need for
interpretations, and the determination. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-8-2013)
ARTICLE G. FORM BASED CODE
SECTION:
11-11G-1: Form Based Code Adopted
11-11G-1: FORM BASED CODE ADOPTED:
The Form Based Code, as set forth in ordinance 2018-06, passed September 11,
2018, and any amendments thereto, are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein. The Form Based Code is publically
available in electronic format at:
https://clearfield.city/business-development/planning/
(Ord 2018-06, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-16, 10-26-2021; Ord. 2022-09, 4-26-
2022; Ord. 2022-21, 8-9-2022; Ord. 2023-10, 6-13-2023; Ord. 2024-05, 4-9-2024;
Ord. 2024-19, 6-25-2024)
CHAPTER 12
OVERLAY ZONES
ARTICLE A. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE (P-D)
SECTION:
11-12A-1: Purpose
11-12A-2: Planned Development Designation
11-12A-3: Review Procedure
11-12A-4: Standards And Requirements
11-12A-5: Guarantees And Covenants
11-12A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Planned Development Overlay Zone is to encourage imaginative
and efficient utilization of land through large scale residential development
and by providing greater flexibility in the location of buildings on the land,
the consolidation of open spaces and the clustering of dwelling units. These
provisions are intended to create more attractive and more desirable
environments within the residential areas of the City. (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
11-12A-2: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DESIGNATION:
   A.   Combination With Residential Zone R-3: The Planned Development Zone
shall be approved only as specified in this Article. The Planned Development
Zone shall be used in combination with the R-3 Zone designated herein and
provisions of the Planned Development Overlay Zone shall become supplementary
to the provisions of the R-3 Zone. The P-D Zone shall not be applied to a land
area as an independent zone. Property to which the P-D Zone has been applied
shall be developed only in conformance with an approved final development plan.
   B.   Designation On Official Zoning Map: The Planned Development Zone
designation (P-D) shall become a suffix to the R-3 Zone with which it is
combined and shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map in parenthesis as "R-3
(P-D)". (Ord. 87-08, 3-24-1987)
   C.   Minimum Acreage: The minimum land area for a planned development shall
be five (5) acres. (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
11-12A-3: REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Application for a P-D Zone designation shall follow the
procedures listed in Section
11-6-2 of this Title.
   B.   Preliminary Planned Development Plan: All applications for a P-D Zone
designation shall be accompanied by five (5) copies of a preliminary planned
development plan. The plan shall contain the following:
      1.   A complete and accurate legal description of the property proposed
for the planned development.
      2.   Topographic maps of the entire site, including contour intervals of
no greater than two feet (2').
      3.   A tabulation of the total acreage of the site and the percentages
thereof to be designated for various uses; i.e., parking, residential units,
open space, streets, etc.
      4.   Proposed circulation pattern, including private and public streets
and pedestrian paths.
      5.   Parks, common open spaces, playgrounds, school sites and other
public or private recreation facilities and improvements proposed within the
planned development.
      6.   General location of all dwellings and other structures in the
planned development and an indication of proposed population densities and
building densities (units per net acre), including percentages of each dwelling
type being proposed.
      7.   Proposed location of parking and ingress and egress.
      8.   A landscaping plan showing what areas are to be landscaped and what
types of plants and materials are to be used, including sprinkler and
irrigation systems.
      9.   Preliminary elevations or perspectives of all building types
proposed within the development.
      10.   Preliminary subdivision plat, if the site is being divided, showing
a general layout of all proposed lots.
      11.   A preliminary utility plan showing the manner in which adequate
sewage disposal and water are to be provided to the site, including the point
from which said services are to be extended.
      12.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the subject
property to effectuate the proposed plan.
      13.   A draft of the declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions as required herein.
      14.   Other materials as may be required by the Zoning Administrator or
the Planning Commission.
   C.   Application And Preliminary Plan Review: The Planning Commission shall
review the application for a P-D Zone designation and accompanying preliminary
planned development plan. The Planning Commission shall approve, disapprove or
approve subject to compliance with such modifications or conditions as may be
deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this Article and the preliminary
plan. The approval of the preliminary plan shall be made only after the
Planning Commission makes the following findings: (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
      1.   That the proposed development will provide a more pleasant and
attractive living environment than a conventional residential development
established under the strict application of the provisions of the residential
R-3 Zone. (Ord. 87-08, 3-24-1987)
      2.   That the proposed development will create no detriment to adjacent
properties and to the general area in which it is located; and that it will be
in substantial harmony with the character of existing development in the area.
(Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
      3.   That the planned development project will provide more efficient use
of the land and more useable open space than a conventional development
permitted by the R-3 Zone. (Ord. 87-08, 3-24-1987)
      4.   That increased densities allowed within the proposed planned
development will be compensated by better site design and by the provision of
increased amenities and recreational facilities. (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
      5.   That any variation allowed from the development standards of the R-
3 Zone will not increase hazards to the health, safety or general welfare of
the residents of the proposed planned development or adjacent areas. (Ord. 87-
08, 3-24-1987)
   D.   Planning Commission Recommendation: Based on its action with the
preliminary planned development plan, the Planning Commission shall then
recommend to the City Council either approval or denial to the P-D Zone
designation on the applicant's property.
   E.   City Council Action: The City Council shall review the application for
designation of the P-D Zone in accordance with subsections 11-6-3B and C of
this Title.
   F.   Final Planned Development Plans: Five (5) copies of the final planned
development plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, who shall
schedule the application for consideration by the Planning Commission. The
Zoning Administrator shall review the final plan when it is submitted to see
that all information and items required by this Title are included in the
submission. All necessary items for compliance with Title 12 of this Code, if
necessary, shall be submitted at this time also. The Zoning Administrator shall
not place any final plan on the Planning Commission agenda until all items
required have been submitted or are omitted for good cause. Final planned
development plans shall contain the following:
      1.   Tabulations of all dwelling units to be constructed by types and
numbers of bedrooms per unit.
      2.   Detailed site plan with complete dimensions showing precise
locations of all buildings and structures, lot or parcel sizes and locations,
designations of common open spaces and special use areas, detailed circulation
pattern including proposed ownership and typical cross section of streets.
      3.   Final exterior design for all building types, presented as exterior
perspectives or exterior elevations.
      4.   Detailed landscaping plans showing the types and sizes of all plant
materials and their locations, decorative materials, recreation equipment,
special effects and sprinkler or irrigation systems.
      5.   Dimensioned parking layout showing location of individual parking
stalls and all areas of ingress or egress.
      6.   Detailed engineering plans or final subdivision plat showing site
grading, street improvements, drainage and public utility locations. Also,
submission of engineering feasibility studies, if required by the City
Engineer.
      7.   The fully executed declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions, together with open space easements and other bonds, guarantees or
agreements as required herein or as deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator and/or the City Attorney.
      8.   A time schedule for the completion of landscaping, parking, street
improvement and other improvements and amenities.
   G.   Final Plan Review:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall review the submitted final plan. The
Planning Commission shall approve the final plan only after it has found the
following: (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
         a.   The proposed development meets all the requirements and standards
of the P-D Zone regulations and of the R-3 Zone. (Ord. 87-08, 3-24-1987)
         b.   The proposed development is in substantial compliance with the
approved preliminary planned development plan.
         c.   The proposed development fully meets the objectives and purposes
of the P-D Zone regulations.
         d.   The developer has provided the guarantees and covenants required
in Section
11-12A-5 of this Article.
      2.   The Planning Commission may impose conditions on the approval of the
final development plans as are deemed appropriate to comply with this Article.
   H.   Building Permit: No building permit for any portion of the planned
development shall be issued until final planned development plans have been
approved and all necessary Title 12 requirements have been met. (Ord. 84-06B,
9-11-1984)
   I.   Phased Final Plans: Final planned development plans for an approved
preliminary plan may be submitted in phases, provided each such phase can exist
as a separate unit capable of independently meeting all of the requirements and
standards of this Article and of the R-3 Zone. (Ord. 87-08, 3-24-1987)
   J.   Fees: All phases of planned development approval shall be accompanied
by the appropriate fee, as specified from time to time by the City Council.
(Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
11-12A-4: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
A planned development established under the provisions of this Article shall
conform to the following standards: (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
   A.   Density Bonus: Residential density (dwelling units per net acre) within
a planned development may exceed that permitted by the R-3 Zone up to a maximum
of twenty percent (20%), at the discretion of the Planning Commission and
subject to concurrence of the City Council. The Planning Commission must find,
however, that any increase in density will be compensated by increased amenity
and improved design which, in its opinion, are proportional to the density
increase which it authorizes. When permitted commercial or service uses are
established, the permitted residential density shall be reduced by one dwelling
unit for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor area devoted to
commercial or service uses. (Ord. 87-08, 3-24-1987)
   B.   Building Locations: With the following exceptions, dwellings and
permitted structures may be located as approved in the final development plans.
Locations and arrangements of buildings on the lot should be accomplished in a
manner that will best utilize the lot area and create an attractive living
environment. The following exceptions shall be considered as minimum
requirements as they apply:
      1.   Garages with entrances facing directly on the street, whether in a
front or side yard, shall be set back at least twenty feet (20') from the
property line.
      2.   Setbacks shall be maintained along the peripheral property lines of
the planned development which shall be equal to that required by the zone on
the property immediately adjacent thereto.
      3.   In those instances where a proposed planned development will front
upon one or more existing streets, the setback from the street shall be equal
to that required by the most restrictive zone on property immediately adjacent
along the same street frontage.
      4.   Where allowed, all commercial or service uses shall be incorporated
in a residential structure and shall be located only on the ground floor.
   C.   Open Space: Not less than ten percent (10%) of the gross area of the
planned developed shall be retained in permanent open space, parks and
playgrounds for the use of the occupants of the planned developments. Land
proposed to be devoted to vehicular streets or roads, parking, driveways,
required setbacks and slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%) shall not
be included in computations of open space, park or playground area.
   D.   Utilities: All dwelling units shall be served by public sewer and a
public water supply. All utilities within the planned development shall be
placed underground, including telephone, electrical and television cables.
Dwelling units under separate ownership shall have separate utility metering.
(Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
   E.   Maximum Height: The maximum height of buildings within a planned
development shall be the same as the permitted by the R-3 Zone. (Ord. 87-08, 3-
24-1987)
   F.   Required Yard Area Landscaping: The required front and side yards which
face upon a public street shall not be used for vehicular parking, but shall be
landscaped with lawn and appropriate plants and shrubs as indicated on the
approved final development plans. (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
   G.   Parking: Dwellings shall be provided with not less than 2.125 parking
spaces per unit. Any fraction of a space shall be raised to the next complete
number. For example, a three (3) unit complex would require 6.375 spaces, which
would be rounded up to seven (7) spaces for the entire complex. All parking
spaces, parking areas and driveways must be hard- surfaced and properly
drained. (Ord. 97-12, 6-10-1997)
   H.   Dedication Of Streets: Streets in planned developments may be dedicated
to the City, but must conform to the City street standards as found in Title 12
of this Code. (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
11-12A-5: GUARANTEES AND COVENANTS:
Adequate guarantees shall be provided for permanent retention and maintenance
of all open space areas created before final planned development plan approval
is granted.
   A.   Open Space Guarantees: Open space guarantees for all planned
developments may include the following:
      1.   The City may require the developer to furnish and record protective
covenants which will guarantee the retention of the open land area, or the City
may require the creation of a corporation granting beneficial rights to the
open space to all owners or occupants of land within the development.
      2.   The developer shall be required to develop and provide for the
maintenance of all open space, unless part of or all of it is contiguous to and
is made a part of an existing park and the City accepts dedication and approves
the annexation of the property to said park.
      3.   In case of private reservation, the open space to be reserved shall
be protected against building development by conveying to the City as part of
the condition of project approval, an open space easement over such open areas,
restricting the area against any future building or use, except as approved on
the final development plan.
      4.   The care and maintenance of the area within such open space
reservation shall be ensured by the developer by establishing a private
association or corporation responsible for such maintenance which shall levy
the cost thereof as an assessment on the property owners within the planned
development. Ownership and tax liability of private open space reservations
shall be established in a manner acceptable to the City and made a part of the
conditions of the final plan approval.
      5.   Maintenance of open space reservations shall be managed by a person,
partnership or corporate entity in which there is adequate expertise and
experience in property management to assure that said maintenance is
accomplished efficiently and at a high standard of quality.
      6.   Subsequent amendments may be made to the plan or use of the land
upon approval by City Council and upon a petition of two-thirds (2/3) or more
of the property owners within the development. Any subsequent change or
addition to the plans or use of land shall first be submitted to the Planning
Commission for its recommendation.
   B.   Performance Bond: In order to ensure that the planned development will
be constructed to completion in an acceptable manner, the applicant shall post
a performance bond or escrow account with the City Recorder, approved by the
City Engineer, in an amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of
the estimated costs of construction and installation of all required
landscaping, parking and street improvements, including paving, curbs,
sidewalks, water and sewer lines, parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities and
other amenities shown on the final development plan. Said applicant shall also
file a schedule of anticipated completion dates for such improvements. In the
event that the improvements are not completed in reasonable conformance with
said schedule, the City may undertake to complete the improvements and pay for
such improvements from the bond.
   C.   Covenants And Restrictions: The applicant for any planned development
which is being developed as a condominium project under the provisions of the
Condominium Ownership Act of Utah, or subsequent amendments thereto, shall,
prior to the conveyance of any unit, submit to the Planning Commission a
declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions relating to the project,
which shall become part of the final development plan and shall be recorded to
run with the land. Said covenants, conditions and restrictions shall include
management policies which shall set forth the quality of maintenance that will
be performed and who is to be responsible for said maintenance within said
condominium development. Said document shall, as a minimum, contain the
following:
      1.   The establishment of a private association or corporation
responsible for all maintenance, which shall levy the cost thereof as an
assessment to each unit owner within the condominium development.
      2.   The establishment of a management committee, with provisions setting
forth the number of persons constituting the committee, the method of selection
and the powers and duties of said committee and including the person,
partnership or corporation with property management expertise and experience
who shall be designated to manage the maintenance of the common areas and
facilities in an efficient and quality manner.
      3.   The method of calling a meeting of the members of the corporation or
association, with the members thereof that will constitute a quorum authorized
to transact business.
      4.   The manner of collection from unit owners for their share of common
expenses and the method of assessment.
      5.   Provisions as to percentage of votes by unit owners which shall be
necessary to determine whether to rebuild, repair and restore or sell property
in the event of damage or destruction of all or part of the project.
      6.   The method and procedure by which the declaration may be amended.
      7.   The declaration required herein, and amendment, and any instrument
affecting the property or any unit therein, shall be approved by the City
Attorney, by the Planning Commission and by the City Council and recorded with
the County Recorder. (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
ARTICLE B. NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION OVERLAY ZONE (N-P)
(Rep. by Ord. 00-13, 7-25-2000)
ARTICLE C. SPECIAL PURPOSE OVERLAY ZONE (S-P)
SECTION:
11-12C-1: Purpose
11-12C-2: Special Purpose Designation
11-12C-3: Review Procedure
11-12C-4: Standards And Requirements
11-12C-5: Guarantees, Covenants And Contracts
11-12C-1: PURPOSE:
The Special Purpose Overlay Zone is established to allow for the development of
property located in a specific zone which is only suitable for certain
permitted or conditional uses of that zone. The Planning Commission will
determine which use or uses is acceptable on each site. The developer and/or
property owner will contract with the City as to the type and size of
development. (Ord. 93-12, 10-12-1993)
11-12C-2: SPECIAL PURPOSE DESIGNATION:
   A.   Combination With Other Zones: The Special Purpose Overlay Zone may be
used in combination with any zone designated in this Title. Provisions of the
Special Purpose Overlay Zone shall become supplementary to the provisions of
the zone with which it is combined. The S-P Zone shall not be applied to a land
area as an independent zone. Property to which the S-P Zone has been applied
shall be developed only in conformance with an approved final development plan.
   B.   Designation On Official Zoning Map: The Special Purpose Overlay Zone
designation (S-P) shall become a suffix to the designation of the zone with
which it is combined and shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map in
parenthesis. For example, if the S-P Zone were being combined with the
Commercial Zone C-2, it would be designated on the Official Zoning Map as C-2
(S-P).
   C.   Minimum Acreage: The minimum land area for a Special Purpose Overlay
Zone shall be the minimum required in the underlying zone. (Ord. 87-17, 9-2-
1987)
11-12C-3: REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Application for an S-P Zone designation shall follow the
procedures of Chapter 6 of this Title. (Ord. 93-12, 10-12-1993)
   B.   Review And Approval: Application for an S-P Zone designation shall be
reviewed and approved according to the provisions of Chapter 4 of this Title.
(Ord. 87-17, 9-2-1987)
11-12C-4: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Underlying Zone Requirements: All proposed S-P Zone developments shall
meet all the standards and requirements of the underlying zone with which the
S-P Zone has been combined unless otherwise contracted with the Planning
Commission.
   B.   Utilities: Where restroom facilities are required, they shall be served
by public sewer and public water supply. (Ord. 87-17, 9-2-1987)
11-12C-5: GUARANTEES, COVENANTS AND CONTRACTS:
   A.   Performance Bond: In order to ensure that the special purpose project
will be constructed to completion in an acceptable manner, the applicant shall
post a performance bond or escrow account with the City Recorder, approved by
the City Engineer, in an amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
of the estimated costs of construction and installation of all required
landscaping, parking and street improvements, including paving, curbs,
sidewalks, water and sewer lines, parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities and
other amenities shown on the site plan. Said applicant shall also file a
schedule of anticipated completion dates for such improvements. In the event
that the improvements are not completed in reasonable conformance with said
schedule, the City may undertake to complete the improvements from the bond.
   B.   Contract: All projects in an S-P Zone shall be approved in the form of
a contract. When the developer, property owner and all City officials concerned
are satisfied with the site plan and stipulations, a contract will be drawn up
and signed by all parties involved. (Ord. 87-17, 9-2-1987)
CHAPTER 13
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-13-1: Applicability
11-13-2: Open Sky (Rep. by Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-3: Lot Standards
11-13-4: Preservation Of Lot Area
11-13-5: Double Frontage Lots (Rep. by Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-6: Side Yards On Corner Lots
11-13-7: Buildings On Lot Lines
11-13-8: Projections And Structures Into Yards
11-13-9: Flag Lot Standards
11-13-10: Clear Vision
11-13-11: Height Limitations; Exceptions
11-13-12: Outdoor Storage
11-13-13: Swimming Pools And Tanks
11-13-14: Temporary Use Of Mobile Homes, Construction Offices, Camp Trailers,
Campers Or Recreational Vehicles
11-13-15: Rehabilitation And/Or Detention Facilities (Rep. by Ord. 2009-40, 11-
24-2009)
11-13-16: Tree Regulations (Rep. by Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-13-17: Lights
11-13-18: Noise Abatement
11-13-19: Wireless Communication Towers
11-13-20: Commercial Storage Facilities
11-13-21: Group Home Facilities
11-13-22: Sexually Oriented Businesses
11-13-23: Landscaping Standards And Requirements (Rep. by Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-
2022)
11-13-24: Private Covenants And Restrictions
11-13-25: Courtesy Benches And Shelters
11-13-26: Fireworks Stand, Temporary Or Seasonal Merchant
11-13-27: Portable Storage Containers
11-13-28: Landscape Supply Yards
11-13-29: Nondepository Lending Establishments
11-13-30: Retail Tobacco Specialty Business
11-13-31: Tattoo Or Body Piercing Establishments (Rep. by Ord. 2022-03, 2-8-
2022)
11-13-32: Residential Daycares And Preschools
11-13-33: Swap Meets
11-13-34: Light Manufacturing And Limited Distribution Uses
11-13-35: Pawnshop And Secondhand Businesses
11-13-36: Beekeeping
11-13-37: Chickens In Single-Family Residential Zones Ownership And Maintenance
11-13-38: Accessory Buildings And Structures
11-13-39: Public Improvements
11-13-1: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations found in this chapter supplement or modify the zone regulations
appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-2: OPEN SKY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-3: LOT STANDARDS:
Except as otherwise provided in this title, every lot shall have such area,
width and depth as is required by this title for the zone in which such lot is
located and shall have frontage upon a dedicated or publicly approved street or
upon a private street or right-of-way approved by the Planning Commission,
before a building permit may be issued. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-4: PRESERVATION OF LOT AREA:
No lot or parcel of land shall be reduced in size by conveyance or otherwise so
that the area thereon is less than the prescribed minimum. (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-
1984)
11-13-5: DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-6: SIDE YARDS ON CORNER LOTS:
On a corner lot, the minimum side yard area adjacent to a street shall not be
used for vehicle parking. (Ord. 84-06B, 9-11-1984)
11-13-7: BUILDINGS ON LOT LINES:
Any main or accessory buildings that are permitted to be located on property
lines by the zone regulations in which they are located shall meet the
following requirements:
   A.   No openings in the building shall be located on the side which is
contiguous on the property line.
   B.   The building shall be built with one hour fire resistant construction
in the wall contiguous to the property line.
   C.   The building shall retain all water on the lot or parcel on which it is
located. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-8: PROJECTIONS AND STRUCTURES INTO YARDS:
   A.   Allowable Structures: The following structures may be erected on or
projected into any required yard area:
      1.   Fences and walls in conformance with City codes or ordinances.
      2.   Necessary appurtenances for utility service.
   B.   Structures With Restrictions: The following structures may project into
a minimum front or rear yard not more than four feet (4'), and into a minimum
side yard not more than two feet (2'):
      1.   Cornices, eaves, belt courses, sills, buttresses, cantilevers or
other similar architectural features.
      2.   Fireplace structures and bays; provided, that they are not wider
than eight feet (8'), measured generally parallel to the wall of which they are
a part.
      3.   Stairways, balconies, door stoops, fire escapes, awnings and
planting boxes or masonry planters not exceeding twenty four inches (24") in
height.
   C.   Carports, Patios, And Decks: Carports, patios, and decks may project
into a rear yard to not less than fifteen feet (15') from the rear property
line, into a corner side yard not less than ten feet (10') from the corner side
property line, and into a side yard not less than three feet (3') from the side
property line. Covered patios shall remain open on three (3) sides, except for
necessary supporting columns, snow screens, and customary architectural
features. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-9: FLAG LOT STANDARDS:
Flag shaped lots may be approved in any single-family residential zone
district. To encourage the more efficient use of land, flag or L-shaped lots
may be allowed. Flag or L-shaped lots will only be allowed where traditional
lot development is not feasible, as determined by the land use authority. Such
lots shall meet the following criteria:
   A.   Flag lots are permitted as part of a new subdivision, shall be used
exclusively for a single-family residential dwelling and shall be located to
the rear of the original or front lot.
   B.   No more than one (1) flag lot may be created from an existing lot or
parcel of property.
   C.   The staff of the lot shall approach the public street at an angle of
not less than eighty degrees (80°).
   D.   All flag lots shall have the street address displayed on private
property in a prominent location where the staff abuts the public street.
   E.   A flag lot may not be created which would negatively impact the future
continuation of existing stub streets.
   F.   The staff of the Flag lot cannot extend from intersections, street
corners, or within four-hundred feet of the closed end of a dead-end street.
   G.   The staff portion of said lot shall front on and be contiguous to a
dedicated public street. The minimum width of the drivable surface for the
staff portion of a flag lot shall be twenty feet (20'). The staff portion for
the flag lot shall be twenty-four feet (24') wide or greater and meet the
requirements of subsection L. The length of the staff shall not exceed two
hundred feet (200'). Any development on a flag lot shall comply with fire
safety requirements which may include the placement of fire hydrants and the
inclusion of a hard surfaced turn-a-round area in the flag portion of the lot.
   H.   No more than two (2) flag lots may be contiguous to each other and abut
upon the same public street and shall have separate staff portions and
driveways for each flag lot.
   I.   The flag portion of a flag lot, exclusive of the staff portion, shall
conform to all regulations of the zone in which it is located.
   J.   The front lot which remains from the original lot or parcel after the
creation of the flag lot must meet the required lot area, lot width, front,
back and side yard requirements for the zone in which it is located, and all
other applicable provisions of this title. The area of the staff portion for
the flag lot shall not be included to compute the minimum required area of the
front or original lot.
   K.   The staff portion of a flag lot shall be held in the same ownership as
part of the entire flag lot.
   L.   The staff portion of a flag lot shall consist of the following:
      1.   Shall be no less than the required width as outlined in subsections
G and M for its entire length from the street to the point where the staff
portion joins the flag portion of the flag lot;
      2.   Shall be paved with an approved drivable surface (asphalt or
concrete), except for the portion required for landscaping.
      3.   No less than four feet (4') of landscaping shall be provided along
the outermost property line between the staff portion of the flag lot(s) and
any adjacent properties.
      4.   Shall front on a dedicated public street.
      5.   If the staff portion includes a shared driveway with the front lot,
staff portion landscaping may be adjusted to allow reasonable ingress and
egress of the front lot.
   M.   The four-foot (4') landscape buffer shall consist of no less than 50%
ground plane coverage of plant material. Deciduous trees may be counted toward
50% ground plane coverage calculation. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord.
2024-01, 6-13-2023)
11-13-10: CLEAR VISION:
   A.   Corner Lots: In all zones which require a front and corner side yard,
no obstruction to view in excess of thirty six inches (36") in height shall be
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street curb
lines and the line connecting them at points thirty feet (30') from the
intersection of the curb. Fences may be permitted to seventy two inches (72")
in height for non-sight obscuring construction, except as set forth in
subsection D of this section. Where there is no curb, the measurement shall be
taken from the edge of the pavement or concrete. Lawn trees are permitted in
the clear vision triangle provided they are pruned at least seven feet (7')
above the nearest established road grade so as to not obstruct a clear view by
motor vehicle drivers. (Ord. 2018-11, 7-31-2018)
   B.   Other Lots:
      1.   Front Yards: Lawn trees and other landscape elements are permitted
but must be planted at least fifteen feet (15') back from the street line as
measured to the point of the trees nearest the street line (figure 1 of this
section). Trees and other landscape elements planted closer than fifteen feet
(15') from the street line shall be pruned at least seven feet (7') above the
established grade of the road or not exceed thirty six inches (36") in height.
      2.   Retaining Walls: Where a retaining wall protects a cut below the
natural grade and is located on the line separating lots, such retaining wall
may be topped by a fence, hedge, or wall of the same height that would
otherwise be permitted at the location if no retaining wall existed. Where a
retaining wall contains a fill, the height of the retaining wall built to
retain the fill shall be considered as part of the permissible height of a
fence, solid wall, or hedge; providing, that in any event a protective fence or
wall or hedge not more than thirty six inches (36") in height, when of solid
construction or such density as to not permit a clear view of adjoining streets
and sidewalks may be erected at the top of the retaining wall, or when the
protective fence, wall or hedge is of such construction as to permit a clear
unobstructed view of adjoining streets and of sidewalks not exceeding forty
eight inches (48") in height may be erected on top of said retaining wall. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to fences required by State law
to surround and enclose public utility installations, public schools, or City
property. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
   C.   Driveways: Driveways in residential zones shall be governed by a clear
vision triangle measured at a point where the edge of the driveway and curb
meet (see figure 1 of this section). At this point, measurements shall be made
ten feet (10') into the property along the driveway edge and ten feet (10')
along the curb. Where there is no curb, the measurements shall be taken from
the edge of the pavement or concrete. The extent of these measurements shall be
connected, forming the clear vision triangle. Lawn trees are permitted in the
clear vision triangle provided they are pruned at least seven feet (7') above
the established road grade so as to not obstruct a clear view by motor
vehicles. Other vegetation may be made on both sides of the driveway and may
affect placement landscaping or fencing on adjacent property. (Ord. 2018-11, 7-
31-2018)
   D.   Fences: Fences located within a required residential front setback area
shall not exceed thirty six inches (36") in height if sight obscuring, or forty
eight inches (48") if nonobscuring, and shall meet all clear vision standards
where applicable. (Ord. 2010-13, 7-27-2010)
   FIGURE 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fe9b739d65a2412fbdac57f09cec052be919e64/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2114.gif]
(Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2018-11, 7-31-2018)
11-13-11: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
The height limitations contained in the zone regulations shall not apply to
spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys or
other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not
intended for human occupancy. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-12: OUTDOOR STORAGE:
"Outdoor storage" is hereby defined as the commercial storage or keeping of
building materials, equipment, fuels, vehicles, goods, commodities or raw
materials outside of a building or structure. Outdoor storage shall only be
permitted as an accessory use in the M-1 or C-2 zones, subordinate to a
permitted use on the same lot. In addition to requirements found elsewhere in
this code and laws of the state of Utah, all outdoor storage shall comply with
the following regulations:
   A.   No yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this title, shall be used for outdoor storage without first
obtaining site plan approval for such use from the land use authority in
accordance with chapter 5 of this title. The storage, keeping, or parking of a
vehicle on an approved parking space at a private residence shall not be
considered outdoor storage. The outdoor display of goods and other merchandise
for retail sale shall not be considered outdoor storage. No other area or
parcel of land shall be used for such purposes except as specifically permitted
herein. Outdoor storage of junk, trash, debris, or other waste materials is
prohibited on any lot or parcel in the city.
   B.   All outdoor storage, except for agricultural products, shall be
enclosed by a fence or wall at least six feet (6') in height and impervious to
sight from any public street, right of way, or adjacent property. No items may
be stacked higher than the fence or wall of the enclosure, unless expressly
exempted elsewhere in this title.
   C.   No materials or waste shall be deposited upon any property in such form
or manner that they may be transferred off such property by natural causes or
forces. All materials or wastes which might cause fumes or dust, or which
constitute a fire hazard, or which may be edible by, or otherwise be attractive
to rodents or insects may not be stored outdoors unless put in closed
containers.
   D.   Open storage of hay or other agricultural products shall be located not
less than forty feet (40') from a public street, and fifty feet (50') from any
dwelling on adjoining property; except, that any accessory building containing
such products shall be located as required for all agricultural accessory
buildings as provided for herein.
   E.   Outdoor storage in the C-2 zone shall not exceed six feet (6') in
height. Outdoor storage in the M-1 zone may exceed the height of six feet (6')
up to a maximum height of up to fifteen feet (15') only if all adjacent
properties share the same M-1 zone designation. If a railroad right of way is
adjacent to the property, storage may only exceed six feet (6') upon planning
commission approval. The following shall be the criteria by which the planning
commission shall review the storage:
      1.   There shall be adequate screening to prevent any residential zones
across the railroad right of way from viewing the storage.
      2.   The storage shall be screened to prevent a view of the storage from
a commuter rail train. Screening can be accomplished by a change in grade,
landscaping, or sight obscuring fences and walls. The planning commission may
impose any other conditions designed to mitigate the impact of the storage.
   F.   All areas used for outdoor storage shall be properly surfaced with an
impermeable, all weather material, and shall be kept free of weeds and debris.
(Ord. 2015-19, 12-8-2015)
11-13-13: SWIMMING POOLS AND TANKS:
All swimming pools and tanks more than thirty inches (30") in depth shall be
set back at least five feet (5') from all property lines and shall be
completely surrounded by a screened fence or wall having a height of at least
six feet (6'). Gates shall be lockable and equipped with self-closing and self-
latching devices. Fences and gates shall not have openings larger than four (4)
square inches. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-14: TEMPORARY USE OF MOBILE HOMES, CONSTRUCTION OFFICES, CAMP TRAILERS,
CAMPERS OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Construction Office: A mobile office or trailer may be used for a
temporary construction office on the site of the construction only until the
project is completed and a final inspection is granted. No business shall be
conducted from the mobile office or trailer, except for such business that is
related to and necessary for construction and development of the site. Site
plan review and approval shall be required in accordance with chapter 5 of this
title prior to occupancy of the mobile office or trailer.
   B.   Commercial Use: A mobile office or trailer may be located for temporary
expansion of a commercial or industrial use legally existing on any site if
first approved by the planning commission in accordance with the following
conditions:
      1.   The mobile office or trailer shall be allowed for a maximum period
of one year, with a possibility of renewal by the planning commission for up to
one additional year upon request of the property owner.
      2.   The mobile office or trailer shall be located in a side or rear yard
only and not in the front yard of a permanent building, and that it shall be
made as inconspicuous as possible.
      3.   The location of the mobile office or trailer shall meet all yard
requirements of this title and shall be located in conformance with plans
approved by the planning commission.
      4.   Site plan review and approval shall be required in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title. A building permit for the construction or expansion of
the main building shall be obtained prior to occupancy of the mobile office or
trailer.
   C.   Recreational Vehicles: Camp trailers, campers, and other recreational
vehicles shall not be occupied or used for living or sleeping purposes upon any
property in the city for a period of more than fourteen (14) consecutive days,
or thirty (30) days total per calendar year.
   D.   Sale Of Residential Dwellings: A mobile office or trailer may be
temporarily used for the sale of residential dwellings during construction and
site development. Site plan review and approval shall be required in accordance
with chapter 5 of this title prior to occupancy of the mobile office or
trailer. (Ord. 2009-04, 4-14-2009)
11-13-15: REHABILITATION AND/OR DETENTION FACILITIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-16: TREE REGULATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-13-17: LIGHTS:
   A.   Height Regulation: No light shall be higher than fifty feet (50') from
finished grade, except that athletic field lights may be higher with approval
of the planning commission through the site plan process.
   B.   Glare: All lights shall be so designed, located, shielded and directed
so as to prevent the casting or glare or direct light from artificial
illumination upon surrounding property and public roadways. Such lights alleged
to violate this subsection by the adjacent property owners or planning and
zoning administrator, shall be subject to a public hearing before the planning
commission as to the validity of the alleged violation. If such light is
determined to be in violation, the owner of said light shall take appropriate
corrective action as directed. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-18: NOISE ABATEMENT:
All property developed adjacent to state highways and interstates shall include
noise abatement measures (type I noise abatement) determined necessary by the
city and consistent with Utah department of transportation's noise impact
criteria in effect at the time. (Ord. 94-24, 12-13-1994)
11-13-19: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWERS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to address planning issues
resulting from the rapid growth and demand for low power radio services. This
section distinguishes low power radio from other broadcasting type
telecommunication technologies and establishes provisions relating to demand,
visual mitigation, noise, engineering, residential impact, health, safety and
facility siting.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
ABANDONMENT (ABANDON): The discontinued use of a telecommunications tower
facility or site.
ANTENNA: A transmitting device used in telecommunications that radiates or
captures radio signals.
BUSINESS USER: A user of wireless telecommunications transmissions as a direct
communications use for their business purpose and not profiting from the use of
their telecommunications equipment or service.
COLLOCATION: The reasonable sharing of tower space by more than one user or
provider of wireless telecommunications services.
COMMERCIAL PROVIDER: A company or individual who provides equipment used
primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice or data through
radio wave or wireless transmissions, who receives remuneration for such
service.
GOVERNMENTAL USER: A political entity or any division or subdivision of any
level of official government who uses wireless telecommunications for
transmission, reception or transfer of either data or voice communications.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance from ground level of the object being measured.
LATTICE TOWER: A self-supporting multiple sided, open steel framed structure
used to support telecommunications equipment.
LOW POWER RADIO SERVICE FACILITY: An unmanned structure which consists of
equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice
or data through radio wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically
require the construction of transmission support structures to which antenna
equipment is attached.
MONOPOLE: A single cylindrical steel or wood pole that acts as the support
structure for antennas.
MULTILOCATION: Shall mean and have the same requirements as collocation.
NONCOMMERCIAL USER: A company or individual who legally uses wireless
telecommunications for services or communications purposes that receive no
remuneration for such services.
NONMAINTAINED: The physical, technical, aesthetic or structural deterioration
of the site, to include any tower, antenna, apparatus, building, grounds or
equipment that is in disrepair or in need of maintenance.
ROOF MOUNTED ANTENNA: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on a
roof, mechanical room or penthouse of a building.
SITE: See definition of Telecommunications Lot.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOT: A telecommunications lot is that area set aside for
construction and placement of telecommunications equipment, including any
buildings, towers, antennas or other apparatus not housed in a residential or
business building. A lot set aside for telecommunications equipment and tower
may differ from the official recorded piece of property and will include any
required equipment, accessories or fenced area.
WALL MOUNTED ANTENNA: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted
against the vertical wall of a building.
WHIP ANTENNA (FLEXIBLE): An antenna that is cylindrical in shape and flexible
in vertical construction.
WHIP ANTENNA (VERTICAL): An antenna that is cylindrical in shape and rigid in
vertical construction.
WIDTH: Horizontal measurement of the object being measured, whether by side,
circumference or diameter. (Ord. 96-18, 9-10-1996)
   C.   Permitted Uses:
Lattice towers and monopole towers shall be permitted uses in the M-
1 manufacturing zone and PF public facilities zone.
Roof mounted antennas, wall mounted antennas, and whip antennas shall be
permitted uses in the M-1 manufacturing zone, PF public facilities zone, B-
1 buffer zone, C-1 and C-2 commercial zones, C-R commercial residential zone,
and the D-R downtown redevelopment zone.
Telecommunications lots shall be permitted uses in the M-1 manufacturing zone
and PF public facilities zone.
   D.   Conditional Uses:
Lattice towers shall be a conditional use in the C-1 and C-2 commercial zones.
Monopole towers shall be a conditional use in the A-1 agriculture zone, B-
1 buffer zone, C-1 and C-2 commercial zones, C-R commercial residential zone,
and D-R downtown redevelopment zone.
Telecommunications lots shall be conditional uses in the C-1 and C-2 commercial
zones. (Ord. 2010-13, 7-27-2010)
   E.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   All telecommunication towers shall be located on the lot so that the
distance from the base of the tower to any adjoining residential zone or any
residential structure is a minimum of one hundred percent (100%) of the
proposed tower height with an additional ten foot (10') buffer. The total
distance of the tower base from the residential zone or structure shall be no
less than one hundred percent (100%) of the tower height, plus ten feet (10').
Towers that use generators shall at no time have an acoustic reading that
exceeds sixty five (65) decibels. (Reference: US EPA [1974] 11.4 and 24 CFR 51
housing and urban development.)
      2.   No towers shall be permitted in the required front yard in any
zoning district and shall not be located in a required landscaped area or
required parking area. Towers located on vacant lots shall have a minimum front
yard setback of twenty five feet (25') in all zoning districts.
   F.   Wall Mounted Antennas: Wall mounted antennas may not extend above the
wall line of the building or extend more than four feet (4') horizontally from
the face of the building. Equipment and the supporting structure shall be
painted to match the color of the building or structure or the background
against which they are most commonly seen. Antennas and the supporting
structures on buildings shall be architecturally compatible with the building.
   G.   Roof Mounted Antennas: Roof mounted antennas may not extend more than
fifteen feet (15') above the highest point of the roof. Antennas must be
mounted at least five feet (5') from the exterior wall of a building and must
be screened, constructed and/or colored to match the structure to which they
are attached.
   H.   Whip Antennas: Flexible whip antennas are not allowed in any zone.
   I.   Additional Conditional Use Requirements: In addition to conditional use
standards outlined in chapter 4 of this title, the following shall be
considered by the planning commission:
      1.   Compatibility: Whether the proposed structure is compatible with the
height and mass of existing buildings and utility structures. Height of the
tower structure should be reasonable, dependent upon the surrounding structures
or buildings and compatible to the surrounding neighborhood.
      2.   Collocation: Whether collocation of the antenna on other existing
structures in the same vicinity such as other towers, buildings, water towers,
utility poles, etc., is possible without significantly impacting antenna
transmission or reception.
      3.   Screening: The location in relation to existing vegetation,
topography and buildings to obtain the best visual screening.
      4.   Spacing: Whether the spacing between monopoles and lattice towers
creates detrimental impacts to adjoining properties.
      5.   Negative Impacts: Whether there are any negative impacts associated
with the use that must be mitigated through screening, landscaping, height
limits or specifying construction materials and colors, etc.
   J.   Lighting And Security: Any lighting on towers must meet FAA and FCC
requirements. When lighting is required and permitted by the FAA or any other
federal or state authority, it shall be oriented inward so as not to project
onto surrounding property. All towers must be enclosed by a six foot (6')
chainlink or opaque fence, all monopoles must have the climbing pegs removed
from the lower twenty feet (20') of the monopole.
   K.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings to antenna structures must comply with the
required setback, height and landscaping requirements of the zoning district in
which they are located. They shall be compatible in design, structure and color
with buildings in the surrounding neighborhood. All storage of equipment and
materials must be inside of an enclosed building, storage in open areas is not
permitted.
      2.   Any business user or telecommunications provider that uses the site
or lot as an office or place of business where employees are required to work
on premises or customers are required to visit the premises, are subject to all
other zoning and building requirements of the city.
   L.   Structural Integrity And Inspections: All new towers and any
modifications to existing towers shall be certified by a licensed engineer
according to structural standards for antenna towers of the Electronic
Industries Association. The city may require periodic inspections of
telecommunication towers to ensure structural integrity. The inspections shall
be conducted by a licensed engineer and based upon the results of an
inspection, the city may require repair or removal of a telecommunication
tower. The expense of the inspection and/or removal of the tower shall be the
responsibility of the tower owner.
   M.   Nonmaintained Or Abandoned Facilities:
      1.   When an antenna has not been repaired or used by the owner, person
having control of, or person receiving benefit of the structure for a period of
thirty (30) days, it will be considered abandoned. Within sixty (60) days after
notice of abandonment is given to the owner, person having control or person
receiving benefit of the structure, the antenna, the tower, all support
structures and no less than the top three feet (3') of footing must be removed
by the owner of the tower.
      2.   If the tower is not removed after the conclusion of the sixty (60)
day notice of abandonment period, the zoning administrator is hereby authorized
to cause the tower and accompanying structures deemed abandoned, to be removed
forthwith at the expense of the owner, agent or person owning the building or
land that the tower is located upon. The city shall have the right to collect
such costs as provided for in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 11, as
amended. (Ord. 96-18, 9-10-1996)
   N.   Amateur Radio Facilities; Towers And Equipment:
      1.   Amateur radio facilities are primarily governed by restrictions
provided by the federal communications commission and this section shall defer
to federal provisions for amateur radio operation with the exception of the
following conditional uses: to comply with reasonable standards of federal law
for the permitting of amateur radio tower equipment and facilities, a
conditional use permit will be required if any of the following structures,
buildings, facilities or equipment are to be constructed. Applicants must
present evidence of ability to operate radio equipment by exhausting all other
means of operation which shall be verified by the leadership of a reputable
radio group as to be determined by the planning commission, before the
following conditional uses may be permitted: (Ord. 96-18, 9-10-1996; amd. 2000
Code)
         a.   Height of support structure over seventy five feet (75') from
ground level.
         b.   Equipment, tower or any accompanying structure or equipment
placed in the front yard of any lot. (Ord. 96-18, 9-10-1996)
      2.   Amateur radio facilities and equipment in M-1 zones do not require
conditional use permits. (Ord. 96-18, 9-10-1996; amd. Ord. 99-6, 3-9-1999)
   O.   Collocation:
      1.   All commercial telecommunications providers are required to
collocate on existing telecommunications towers. Any commercial provider
applicant who applies for a new tower structure site must provide the planning
commission with extensive evidence that they have exhausted all means possible
to collocate on existing towers or provide substantiated evidence that
collocation on existing towers is contrary to engineering design and would
create a substantial hardship for their business if located on any available
existing towers.
      2.   Commercial telecommunications providers will be required to provide
tower space, as well as ground space where possible, or allow access through
existing ground space for necessary equipment and accessories to subsequent
telecommunications providers on existing towers and telecommunications lot
areas. If ground space is not available, subsequent providers may have to
acquire additional space from the adjacent landowner. The landowner, the
present tower owner/occupant and the applicant to the tower must bargain in
good faith for the use of the tower and all must respect reasonable rates for
the area and the industry.
   P.   Access To Site: All telecommunications tower facilities must have
reasonable access and fulfill all easement requirements necessary for
construction, repair or necessary access to site.
   Q.   Building Permits: A building permit shall be required for the
construction or siting of all commercial or business use towers.
   R.   Denial Of Request To Install Or Construct: Any application for
construction of a wireless communications tower that is denied by any official
of the city, the planning commission or the city council, must be in writing
and must be based on evidence with a written record of proceedings. Denial may
not be based upon the grounds that radio frequency emissions from the
facilities will be harmful to the environment or health of residents. FCC
standards govern this application. (Ord. 96-18, 9-10-1996)
11-13-20: COMMERCIAL STORAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   Commercial storage facilities shall only be permitted on properties
that had such facilities on them as of the effective date of Clearfield City
ordinance 02-02.
   B.   All existing commercial storage facilities shall be considered legal
nonconforming uses and shall be subject to the regulations of chapter 17 of
this title. (Ord. 2010-13, 7-27-2010)
11-13-21: GROUP HOME FACILITIES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings prescribed therein:
    ELDERLY PERSON: A person who is sixty (60) years of age or older, who
desires or needs to live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who
is capable of living independently.
   GROUP HOME FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY: A dwelling in which eight (8) or
fewer unrelated persons, exclusive of staff, having physical or mental
disabilities or impairments are cared for or live in a supervised environment.
   GROUP HOME FOR THE ELDERLY: A dwelling in which eight (8) or fewer unrelated
elderly persons, exclusive of staff, are cared for or live in a supervised
environment. The residents may or may not have a physical or mental impairment
because of age. A group home for the elderly shall be owned by one of the
residents or by an immediate family member of one of the residents or be a
facility for which title has been placed in trust for a resident.
   B.   Placement Of Specific Persons Restricted: Placement in a group home
facility shall be on a strictly voluntary basis and not part of or in lieu of
confinement, rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional facility.
   C.   Approval Process: Group homes that will house more than three (3)
unrelated persons shall be a conditional use in zones where single-family
dwellings are allowed, and a permitted use if housing three (3) or less
unrelated persons. Group Homes shall be a permitted use in zones where
multiple-family dwellings are allowed. Site plan review and approval shall also
be required in accordance with chapter 5 of this title. Each group home shall
comply with all of the following requirements:
      1.   The facility shall conform to all applicable health, safety and
building codes applicable to similar dwellings;
      2.   The facility shall be capable of use as a group home without
structural or landscaping alterations that would change the structure’s
residential character;
      3.   Adequate off street parking shall be provided;
      4.   The facility shall be consistent with the existing zoning standards
of the desired location.
   D.   Assurances: The operator of the facility shall provide assurances that
the residents of the facility will be properly supervised on a twenty four (24)
hour basis, except for homes for the elderly.
   E.   Termination: A permit granted for a group home facility under this
section is nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use
other than as a group home facility. A permit also terminates if the group home
facility fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section.
   F.   Fair Housing: In accordance with the fair housing amendments act of
1988, 42 USC, section 3601 et seq., none of the foregoing conditions shall be
interpreted to limit any reasonable accommodation necessary to allow occupancy
of a residential facility for persons with a disability.
   G.   Persons With A Disability: Group homes for persons with a disability
shall follow all applicable standards and requirements of the department of
human services under Utah code title 62A, chapter 2 licensure of programs and
facilities.
   H.   Elderly Person: A group home for the elderly shall not be operated as a
business. A group home for the elderly may not be considered a business because
a fee is charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of operation and
maintenance of the facility. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-16, 9-
24-2024)
11-13-22: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
In addition to the regulations found in title 4 of this code, sexually oriented
businesses shall comply with the following regulations:
   A.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   No sexually oriented business shall be located within a one thousand
foot (1,000') radius of any school, church, park or residence. No sexually
oriented business shall be located within a one thousand foot (1,000') radius
of another sexually oriented business.
      2.   No sexually oriented business shall be located within a one thousand
foot (1,000') radius of all gateways to the city. "Gateways" shall be defined
as the point where any public street enters the city.
   B.   Sign Restrictions: Sexually oriented business signs shall be limited as
follows:
      1.   No more than one sign shall be allowed on any sexually oriented
business premises. Off premises signs shall not be allowed.
      2.   No sign on the sexually oriented business premises shall be allowed
to exceed eighteen (18) square feet.
      3.   No animation shall be permitted on or around any sexually oriented
business sign or on the exterior walls or roof of the premises.
      4.   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to or
inferring the nature of the business shall be allowed on any sexually oriented
business sign, which shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
      5.   Only flat wall signs shall be permitted for any sexually oriented
business.
      6.   Painted signs or painted wall advertising shall not be allowed.
      7.   Other than the signs specifically allowed by this title, the
sexually oriented business shall not construct or allow to be constructed any
temporary sign, banner, light, window or other device designed to draw
attention to the business location. (Ord. 2009-04, 4-14-2009)
11-13-23: LANDSCAPING STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-13-24: PRIVATE COVENANTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Any project developed under the provisions of the condominium ownership
act of Utah, or subsequent amendments thereto, shall, prior to the conveyance
of any unit, submit to the planning commission a declaration of covenants,
conditions and restrictions relating to the project, which shall become part of
the final development plan and shall be recorded to run with the land.
   B.   All covenants, conditions and restrictions shall include management
policies which shall set forth the quality of maintenance that will be
performed and who is to be responsible for said maintenance within said
condominium development. Said document shall, at a minimum, contain the
following:
      1.   The establishment of a private association or corporation
responsible for all maintenance, which shall levy the cost thereof as an
assessment to each unit owner within the condominium development.
      2.   The establishment of a management committee, with provisions setting
forth the number of persons constituting the committee, the method of selection
and the powers and duties of said committee and including the person,
partnership or corporation with property management expertise and experience
who shall be designated to manage the maintenance of the common areas and
facilities in an efficient and quality manner.
      3.   The method of calling a meeting of the members of the corporation or
association, with the members thereof that will constitute a quorum authorized
to transact business.
      4.   The manner of collection from unit owners for their share of common
expenses and the method of assessment.
      5.   Provisions as to percentage of votes by unit owners which shall be
necessary to determine whether to rebuild, repair and restore or sell property
in the event of damage or destruction of all or part of the project.
      6.   The method and procedure by which the declaration may be amended.
   C.   The declaration required herein, any amendment, and any instrument
affecting the property or any unit therein, shall be approved by the city
attorney, planning commission, and city council, and shall be recorded with the
county recorder.
   D.   This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of private
covenants and agreements entered into between private persons, but shall
prevail notwithstanding such provisions which are less restrictive.
   E.   Enforcement of private covenants and agreements is affected only by the
parties in interest and the responsibility therefor shall not be assumed by the
city or its agents. The city shall not be responsible for the enforcement of
any private covenant, condition or restriction that is more restrictive than
the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2009-40, 11-24-2009)
11-13-25: COURTESY BENCHES AND SHELTERS:
Courtesy benches and shelters shall be subject to the following provisions:
(Ord. 2010-13, 7-27-2010)
   A.   Permit Required: No courtesy bench or shelter shall be installed or
erected without first obtaining a permit from the city. Courtesy bench and
shelter permits shall be nontransferable.
   B.   Application: Application for a courtesy bench or shelter permit shall
be made in writing by the property owner or certified agent on forms prepared
by the city, and shall be accompanied by payment of the fee required by the
city's fee schedule. Upon receipt of a complete application, the planning and
zoning administrator shall be authorized to approve the application, approve
the application with conditions, or deny the application. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-
2016)
   C.   License Period:
      1.   Calendar Year: All permits issued shall be valid for a period of one
calendar year. Permits approved after the calendar year begins shall only be
valid through the remaining months of the calendar year. Exception: New permits
issued after November 1 shall require payment of the full application fee and
shall be valid through December 31 of the following year.
      2.   Renewal: At the time of yearly renewal, an inspection may be made to
assure compliance with the provisions of this code.
   D.   Revocation: The planning and zoning administrator may revoke a courtesy
bench or shelter permit at any time for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement.
      2.   Failure to comply with any or all of the provisions of this code.
   E.   Property Owner Consent: Written approval from the property owner shall
be required at the time of initial application for a courtesy bench or shelter
permit, whether the courtesy bench or shelter is located on public or private
property. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain and
maintain property owner approval. The approval shall be provided on forms
prepared by the city. A property owner may revoke his or her consent at any
time and for any reason. Revocation of property owner consent shall constitute
immediate termination of the courtesy bench or shelter permit. A change in
property owners shall require written approval by the new owner.
   F.   Location And Quantity:
      1.   Courtesy benches and shelters shall only be located in the C-
1 commercial, C-2 commercial, C-R commercial residential, D-R downtown
redevelopment, and M-1 manufacturing zones.
      2.   No courtesy bench or shelter shall be located within a required
clear vision area.
      3.   A maximum of one courtesy bench or one courtesy shelter shall be
allowed at each approved Utah transit authority bus stop. The bench or shelter
shall be located within ten feet (10') of the stop. If a bus stop is moved or
otherwise eliminated from service by the Utah transit authority, all permits
for associated benches and shelters shall be immediately terminated.
      4.   A maximum of one courtesy bench, located no more than one hundred
feet (100') from the curb line intersection of the streets, shall be allowed
per corner at signalized public street intersections. Courtesy benches located
at an intersection shall comply with all other regulations of this section.
   G.   Signage: No signs shall be allowed on courtesy benches or shelters.
   H.   Construction And Maintenance:
      1.   Courtesy benches shall be constructed in substantial conformance
with figure 1 of this section and shall be kept in good repair.
      2.   A concrete pad shall be required for all courtesy benches and
shelters. The minimum pad size for courtesy benches shall be four feet by six
feet (4' x 6') and the minimum pad size for a courtesy shelter shall be two
feet (2') wider than the width of the shelter and two feet (2') longer than the
length of the shelter. Additional space should also be designed for persons in
wheelchairs and/or to provide additional waiting area for bus patrons.
      3.   The minimum pad area for a courtesy bench or shelter may include
part of a sidewalk. However, no courtesy bench or shelter shall infringe upon
or obstruct any sidewalk, other pedestrian path, or driveway without adding
paving which meets passage standards established by the Americans with
disabilities act (ADA).
      4.   Courtesy benches and shelters shall be securely fastened to the
concrete pad. Upon removal of a bench or shelter, the concrete pad shall be
repaired by the owner of the bench or shelter, including removal of attachment
bolts and repair of all holes in the concrete pad.
   I.   Insurance: For any courtesy bench or shelter, the company or person
responsible for the courtesy bench or shelter shall provide to the city proof
of liability insurance in the minimum amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00), and shall name the city as an additional insured, and
indemnify and hold harmless the city from any and all injuries and defense
costs arising from the placement or use of the courtesy bench or shelter.
   J.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to courtesy
benches or shelters installed by the City or the Utah Transit Authority.
   Figure 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fe9b739d65a2412fbdac57f09cec052be919e64/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2116.gif]
(Ord. 2010-13, 7-27-2010)
11-13-26: FIREWORKS STAND, TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL MERCHANT:
Fireworks stands, and temporary or seasonal merchants shall be subject to the
following regulations:
   A.   Location Specified; Location Restrictions:
      1.   Each license shall specify the location where the business is
approved to operate. No operation shall occur at locations other than the
approved site.
      2.   Licenses issued under this section shall be limited to the following
street corridors:
         a.   (SR) 126 (North Main Street & State Street), 1700 South (Antelope
Drive), State Route (SR) 193 (700 South), 200 South, and 300 North (excluding
properties east of SR 126), if located outside of Freeport Center or Freeport
West. All fireworks stands, temporary or seasonal merchants, shall not occupy
more than twenty percent (20%) of the parking stalls on the lot where the
business has been approved.
         b.   No location restrictions are imposed by the city if locating
inside Freeport Center or Freeport West.
         c.   Licenses may only be issued on non-residential properties (such
as businesses, schools, churches, etc.) along the identified corridors within
the city.
   B.   Maintenance: The area around a fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal
merchant shall be kept clean and orderly. A trash receptacle shall be provided
for patrons. The licensee shall promptly clean up all trash, litter, spills,
etc., within a minimum twenty-foot (20') radius of the business.
   C.   Appearance: All fireworks stands, temporary or seasonal merchants
structures and display areas shall have a professional appearance, and may not
appear tattered, torn, frayed, faded, have chipped or peeling paint or
otherwise be in disrepair. All equipment associated with the use shall be
maintained in a new or near new condition. All retail items shall be displayed
in a neat and orderly fashion. All displays, merchandise, and debris associated
with the use shall be contained within the confines of the use and be cleaned
at the end of each business day. A business license will not be issued or may
be revoked if structures, display areas and/or equipment are not properly kept
and maintained.
   D.   Impervious Surface: Each fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal
merchant shall be located on an impervious, all-weather surface with no portion
of the business located in a landscaped or unimproved area.
   E.   Setbacks: Each fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal merchant shall be
located a minimum of ten feet (10') behind the inside edge of a public
sidewalk, or fifteen feet (15') from the edge of the street right-of-way if no
sidewalk exists; five feet (5') from combustible walls, roof eave lines,
awnings, etc.; ten feet (10') from any building openings (i.e., doors, windows,
vents, etc.); and five feet (5') from a fire hydrant, driveway, handicapped
parking space or loading area.
   F.   Traffic Safety: No fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal merchant
shall impede auto and/or pedestrian traffic or create auto/pedestrian
conflicts. Private sidewalk clear widths shall not be reduced below five feet
(5'), and no fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal merchant shall interfere
with the internal parking lot circulation.
   G.   Parking: The site shall have adequate parking to accommodate the
primary use(s) on site as well as any area used by the fireworks stand,
temporary or seasonal merchant. No part of the fireworks stand, temporary or
seasonal merchant shall occupy required parking stalls for the primary use(s)
of the site. A minimum of two (2) on-site parking stalls are required for each
fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal merchant.
   H.   Business Conduct: A fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal merchant
shall not solicit or conduct business with persons in motor vehicles or use any
flashing lights, noise, sound or other motion producing devices to attract
attention to its operation. A fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal merchant
located in or adjacent to a residential zone, shall not operate prior to eight
o’clock (8:00) AM or after ten o’clock (10:00) PM.
   I.   Fireworks Stand Limitation: To promote public safety, a fireworks stand
located within a one-thousand-foot (1,000') radius (as measured from property
line to property line) of the Clearfield City 4th of July event at Fisher Park
shall not operate after two o’clock (2:00) PM.
   J.   Minimum Separation Required: No temporary or seasonal merchant shall be
located within two hundred feet (200') of the primary public entrance of an
existing retail store which sells similar products as its primary business.
   K.   Signs: Each fireworks stand, temporary or seasonal merchant shall be
limited to one on premises sign, which shall not exceed eight (8) square feet
in size. Signs shall not be internally illuminated or make use of flashing or
intermittent lighting or animation devices. Pennants, streamers, lawn banners
and other temporary signs shall be prohibited.
   L.   Fire Extinguisher Required: A portable fire extinguisher, Type 2A-10 BC
minimum, must be mounted within easy reach of each fireworks stand, temporary
or seasonal merchant.
   M.   City Sponsored Event Or Activity: This section shall not apply to
fireworks stands, temporary or seasonal merchants participating in a City
sponsored event or activity. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-23, 9-13-
2022)
11-13-27: PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Site plan approval shall be required for portable storage containers
in all nonresidential zones.
      2.   Except in the M-1 Zone, no container shall be used as a permanent
structure or an appendage to a permanent structure.
      3.   Vertical stacking of portable storage containers or materials on top
of containers shall be prohibited unless approved through the site plan review
process.
      4.   Portable storage containers shall not be used as dwellings, or for
camping, cooking or recreation purposes, and may not be connected to plumbing
or electricity.
      5.   Portable storage containers not being actively used may not be
stored in Clearfield City except by such businesses that are properly licensed
to sell or lease containers.
      6.   Portable storage containers shall be kept in good repair.
      7.   Portable storage containers shall not be allowed on vacant parcels
of real property.
   B.   Residential Requirements:
      1.   Portable storage containers shall not be allowed for permanent
storage.
      2.   Only one portable storage container shall be allowed per parcel.
      3.   Portable storage containers shall only be allowed for moving
purposes or during construction or remodeling and shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   Portable storage containers used for moving in or out of a
residence shall be allowed for a maximum of fourteen (14) days, and shall only
be located on a driveway or other paved area on private property.
         b.   Portable storage containers used during construction shall: (Ord.
2010-13, 7-27-2010)
            (1)   Only be allowed if a valid building permit is currently on
file with the city; (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
            (2)   Be allowed for a maximum of six (6) months. An extension of
up to six (6) months may be granted by the planning and zoning administrator;
            (3)   Not be located in a public right of way; and
            (4)   Be removed before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
   C.   Agricultural Requirements: The regulations for portable storage
containers in agriculture zones shall be the same as those set forth in
subsection B of this section, except as set forth below:
      1.   Portable storage containers may be allowed for a maximum of three
(3) months for storage.
      2.   Portable storage containers shall be completely screened from
streets and residential areas.
      3.   No more than one portable storage container shall be allowed per
acre of land.
   D.   Commercial Requirements:
      1.   Containers may not be used for everyday business operations, except
for incidental shipping and receiving of materials or products for a period not
to exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or ninety (90) calendar days in
a calendar year.
      2.   Portable storage containers shall be located on a concrete or
asphalt surface.
      3.   Portable storage containers shall be completely screened from
streets and residential areas.
   E.   Manufacturing Requirements:
      1.   The combined footprint of all portable storage containers shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the footprint of the main building.
      2.   Portable storage containers shall be located on concrete or asphalt
surface.
      3.   Portable storage containers shall be completely screened from public
streets and residential areas. (Ord. 2010-13, 7-27-2010)
11-13-28: LANDSCAPE SUPPLY YARDS:
Landscape supply yards shall be subject to all regulations for outdoor storage
except as follows:
   A.   Impermeable Surfaces: An impermeable, all weather surface shall be
required for parking areas for employees and customers. All other areas on site
shall be kept free of weeds and debris. (Ord. 2010-18, 11-9-2010)
11-13-29: NONDEPOSITORY LENDING ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Nondepository Lending Establishments:
      1.   No nondepository lending establishment shall be located within one
mile (5,280 feet) of any other nondepository lending establishment. The
distance shall be measured in a straight line between the closest property
lines of the lots upon which they are located.
      2.   The number of nondepository lending establishments may not exceed
one per ten thousand (10,000) of the Clearfield City population. The total
population figures shall be based on the U.S. census bureau’s annual estimates.
   B.   Establishments With Active License Before May 1, 2014: The following
shall only apply to nondepository lending establishments that had an active
business license before May 1, 2014, in Clearfield City:
      1.   Termination Of Business License: If any of the above listed
businesses fails to renew its Clearfield City business license or vacates its
premises, then the business and use is deemed terminated. Businesses which were
legally and lawfully in place in the city prior to May 1, 2014, which do not
meet the new zoning and separation requirements shall be considered
nonconforming and will be subject to the provisions of chapter 17 of this
title.
      2.   Relocation Of Existing Business: Any of the above listed businesses
legally and lawfully existing in the city before May 1, 2014, shall only be
allowed to relocate to a new site that meets the zoning and separation
requirements outlined in this section. The nonconforming status of the prior
site is deemed to have been terminated. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-22-2014; amd. Ord.
2022-03, 2-8-2022)
11-13-30: RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS:
   A.   Proximity Restrictions: No retail tobacco specialty business shall be
located within:
      1.   One thousand feet (1,000') of a community location.
         a.   "Community location" means a public or private kindergarten,
elementary, middle, junior high, or high school; a licensed childcare facility
or preschool; a trade or technical school; a church; a public library; a public
playground; a public park; a youth center or other space used primarily for
youth oriented activities; a public recreational facility; or a public arcade;
      2.   Six hundred feet (600') of another retail tobacco specialty
business; or
      3.   Six hundred feet (600') from property used or zoned for agriculture
use or residential use.
   B.   Measurements: For the purposes of this section, the proximity
requirements shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of
the retail tobacco specialty business to the nearest property boundary of the
community location, agricultural or residential use, or other retail tobacco
specialty business, without regard to intervening structures or zoning
districts. (Ord. 2012-03, 6-12-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
11-13-31: TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-03, 2-8-2022)
11-13-32: RESIDENTIAL DAYCARES AND PRESCHOOLS:
   A.   Drop Off/Pick Up Plans: Applicant shall submit a drop off and pick up
schedule, subject to approval by the city zoning administrator, with staggered
times proposed in order to mitigate traffic impacts. If applicant is requesting
approval for a residential preschool that holds more than one class per day,
the ending time of the first class to the beginning time of the second class
shall be scheduled at least one hour apart to prevent overlapping times of pick
up and drop off of students.
   B.   Traffic Flow: Applicant shall submit a copy of the traffic flow plan,
which shall be subject to approval by the city zoning administrator.
   C.   Outdoor Environment: There shall be an outdoor play area for children
that is safely accessible and which must be enclosed and installed to the
satisfaction of state of Utah.
   D.   Planning Commission Review: If the zoning administrator determines that
an application needs further interpretation, he may request planning commission
review of the application. (Ord. 2014-23, 10-28-2014)
11-13-33: SWAP MEETS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation or charity to hold a swap meet or flea market without having first
obtained a business license.
      1.   Daily Business License: A swap meet licensee shall have the right to
issue daily business licenses to individual sellers operating on the swap meet
licensee's premises upon receiving the required daily license fee of one dollar
($1.00), as determined in the consolidated fee schedule, and the signed
application required by section
4-1-5 of this code. This fee shall be remitted to the city and shall be applied
toward the city's added costs of printing application forms and policing swap
meets for stolen goods. A licensee shall have the right to refuse to issue a
daily business license to any applicant who does not have positive
identification or who the licensee has reasonable cause to believe is
attempting to sell stolen property.
   B.   Restricted Items: No sale of firearms, pyrotechnics, ammunition,
explosives, alcoholic beverages, food (except fresh produce), drinks,
pornography, illegal substances, or medicines shall be made by daily sellers on
the swap meet licensee's premises.
   C.   Report Required: It shall be the duty of every swap meet licensee to
report to the police department any article he or she has reason to believe was
stolen or lost and found by the person attempting to sell it.
   D.   Pawnbrokers And Secondhand Dealer Business: A swap meet licensee shall
not conduct the business of a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer without having
obtained the licenses required for such businesses as provided in title 4 of
this code. (Ord. 2014-30, 12-9-2014)
11-13-34: LIGHT MANUFACTURING AND LIMITED DISTRIBUTION USES:
   A.   Neither light manufacturing nor limited distribution uses will be
allowed on parcels which have frontage on, are adjacent to, or have direct
unobscured visibility from main transportation corridors in the city including:
State Street, Main Street, 800 North, 300 North, 200 South, SR-193, 700 South,
1700 South, South Main Street, 100 West, 1000 East, 1500 East, 2000 East, or
Depot Street. The official map will be available with the City.
      1.   Light manufacturing or limited distribution uses may be considered
along 1700 South when directly adjacent to other M-1 zoned properties on the
same side of a street. A higher standard of design is required when considering
these uses. Added enhancements shall include brick on all front facades and all
facades visible from 1700 South. The brick shall be broken up by windows,
changes in brick pattern, or another material at a minimum of thirty feet
(30'). A minimum of 25% of the front and street facing facades shall be
provided with glazing/transparency. When overhead doors are used on the front
façade they must be glass paneling.
      2.   In addition to the standards listed above, light manufacturing and
limited distribution developments shall comply with the commercial site and
building standards outlined in the Design Standards Chapter (Chapter 18) of
this title.
   B.   A structure housing light manufacturing or limited distribution uses
must not be more than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet in size. (Ord. 2015-
01, 2-24-2015; amd. Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016; Ord 2020-10, 4-14-2020)
11-13-35: PAWNSHOP AND SECONDHAND BUSINESSES:
   A.   Pawn And Secondhand Businesses:
      1.   No pawn or secondhand business shall be located within one mile
(5,280 feet) of any other pawn or secondhand business. The distance shall be
measured in a straight line between the closest property lines of the lots upon
which they are located.
      2.   A pawn or secondhand business shall not be located within eight
hundred eighty feet (880') from any nondepository lending establishment. (Ord.
2016-02, 2-23-2016)
11-13-36: BEEKEEPING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to authorize beekeeping subject
to certain requirements intended to avoid problems that may otherwise be
associated with beekeeping in populated areas.
   B.   Hives On Lots:
      1.   As provided in this section, and notwithstanding any contrary
provision in this title, an apiary, located on lots that are up to one-fourth
(1/4) acre shall consist of not more than three (3) hives. Lots that are one-
fourth (1/4) acre, not to exceed one-half (1/2) acre shall consist of no more
than five (5) hives. On any residential lot which is one-half (1/2) acre up to
one acre, the number of hives permitted on the lot may be increased to ten (10)
hives. Lots that meet the zoning designation and are greater than one acre do
not have an imposed limit on the number of hives.
      2.   No hives shall be located in a front yard.
      3.   A person shall not locate or allow a hive on property owned or
occupied by another person without first obtaining written permission from the
owner.
      4.   No hive or group of hives shall exceed six feet (6') in height.
      5.   Hives shall be maintained either in a fenced yard or in accordance
with the requirements set forth in subsection E of this section.
   C.   Beekeeper Registration: Each beekeeper shall be registered and maintain
an active license with the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food as provided
in the Utah Bee Inspection Act set forth in title 4, chapter 11 of the Utah
Code, as amended.
   D.   Hives:
      1.   Honeybee colonies shall be kept in hives with removable frames which
shall be kept in sound and usable condition.
      2.   Hives shall be placed at least five feet (5') from any property line
and six inches (6") above the ground, as measured from the ground to the lowest
portion of the hive; provided, however, that this requirement may be waived in
writing by the adjoining property owner.
      3.   Hives shall be operated and maintained as provided in the Utah Bee
Inspection Act.
      4.   Each hive shall be conspicuously marked with the owner's name,
address, telephone number, and State registration number.
   E.   Flyways: A hive shall be placed on property so the general flight
pattern of bees is in a direction that will deter bee contact with humans and
domesticated animals. If any portion of a hive is located within fifteen feet
(15') from an area which provides public access or five feet (5') from a
property line on the lot where an apiary is located, as measured from the
nearest point on the hive to the property line, a flyway barrier at least six
feet (6') in height shall be established and maintained around the hive except
as needed to allow access. Such flyway shall consist of a solid wall, fence,
dense foliage or a combination thereof, which extends at least ten feet (10')
beyond the hive in each direction so that bees are forced to fly to an
elevation of at least six feet (6') above ground level over property lines in
the vicinity of the apiary.
   F.   Water: Each beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient source of water is
available to the colony continuously between March 1 and October 31 of each
year. The water shall be located on the property of the owner of the hive and
in a location that minimizes any nuisance created by bees seeking water on
neighboring property.
   G.   Beekeeping Equipment: Each beekeeper shall ensure that no bee comb or
other beekeeping equipment is left upon the grounds of an apiary site. Upon
removal from a hive, all such equipment shall promptly be disposed of in a
sealed container or placed within a building or other beeproof enclosure.
   H.   Conflict With Davis County Health Department Regulations: In the event
of a conflict between any regulation set forth in this section and honeybee
management regulations adopted by the Davis County Health Department, the most
restrictive regulations shall apply.
   I.   Enforcement: Any person violating or causing the violation of any of
the provisions of this title, or failing or refusing to do some act required
under this title, shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to penalty as provided by section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition to any criminal penalties, any person found in
violation of this title may be subject to payment of costs associated with
enforcement of this title, including, but not limited to, attorney fees.
   J.   Certain Conduct Unlawful: Notwithstanding compliance with the various
requirements of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to maintain
an apiary or to keep any colony on any property in a manner that threatens
public health or safety. Hives are a permitted use on properties that contain a
primary use on a property. Beekeeping is not permissible as primary or singular
use on residential lots. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
11-13-37: CHICKENS IN SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES OWNERSHIP AND
MAINTENANCE:
   A.   The keeping and maintenance of residential chickens is allowed within
the City only as provided in this title.
   B.   Any chicken kept as provided by this title shall not be deemed a
household pet.
   C.   A City license is required for the keeping of chickens allowed by this
title.
      1.   A license shall be a one-time application and shall be signed by the
property owner.
      2.   A license does not run with the land.
      3.   There shall be a one-time license fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
      4.   Application for, and acceptance of a license is prima facie evidence
that a person agrees to abide by all the conditions and regulations of this
title.
      5.   A license may be revoked for any violation of this title.
      6.   Applicant shall submit a site plan to the Community Development
Office.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any chicken in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this title. Any such violation shall be a Class B
misdemeanor.
   E.   A chicken shall be kept strictly for familial gain from the production
and consumption of eggs, and there shall be no sale or income resulting from
the keeping of a chicken.
   F.   Up to six (6) hens may be kept on a residential lot in accordance with
the following:
      1.   A chicken shall only be kept on a property containing a single-
family detached dwelling unit.
      2.   A chicken shall be kept in a coop or enclosed area at all times.
      3.   No chicken shall be permitted to roam outside a coop or enclosed
area.
      4.   A coop shall be covered, ventilated, and rodent and predator
resistant.
      5.   A coop shall not be constructed of scrap or dilapidated materials.
      6.   The coop shall be built with a finished, all weather exterior
material.
      7.   It is unlawful to keep a rooster or crowing hen.
      8.   No lot smaller than six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet
shall be used for the keeping of chickens.
      9.   Any coop or enclosure shall be located in the rear yard of the main
dwelling.
      10.   Any coop or enclosure shall be located at least twenty feet (20')
from any primary residential dwelling on an adjoining property, and at least
five feet (5') from any property line.
      11.   No coop shall be taller than seven feet (7'), at its highest point.
      12.   Any time a heating device is employed in a pen or coop, such pen or
coop must be separated at least ten feet (10') from any dwelling structure.
      13.   Any coop and any roaming area shall be maintained in a neat and
sanitary condition and shall be cleaned as necessary to prevent a detectable
odor at the property line.
      14.   Chicken feed shall be stored and dispensed in a rodent- proof and
predator-proof container.
      15.   No growth or vegetation other than sod grass is permitted within
five feet (5') of any coop.
      16.   The area within five feet (5') of the perimeter of any coop shall
be unobstructed, except that the rear of a coop may be attached to another
structure.
      17.   A chicken may not be kept, and a coop may not be constructed, on
any property that is in violation of a City ordinance or where the owner or
resident is being prosecuted for a violation.
      18.   No coop, pen, cage, or similar structure shall exceed one hundred
fifty (150) square feet (includes coop space and chicken run).
   G.   Any chicken that is outside of an approved coop or enclosed area may be
confiscated by any agent of the City. (Ord. 2017-04, 3-28-2017)
11-13-38: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Accessory building and structure setbacks shall be in conformance with
table 38.1 of this section.
   B.   Height of the accessory building and structure shall not exceed thirty
feet (30') or the height of the principal building, whichever is less and shall
be in conformance with table 38.1 of this section.
   C.   Lot coverage shall be in conformance with table 38.1 of this section.
   D.   Detached garages shall be in conformance with table 38.1 of this
section.
   E.   Accessory buildings and structures shall be built with a finished, all
weather exterior material and shall be finished to match the exterior of the
principal building.
   F.   No accessory building or structure shall be located in the required
front yard area. A building or structure may be constructed or established as
an accessory building, structure, or use to a permitted principal building or
use, provided that it meets the following:
      1.   It is clearly incidental and customary to, and commonly associated
with the operation of the principal use; and,
      2.   It is operated and maintained under the same ownership or by lessees
or concessionaires thereof and on the same lot as the principal use; and,
      3.   It does not include or allow living quarters or a dwelling of any
type.
   G.   Accessory buildings and structures greater than two hundred (200)
square feet shall require site plan approval and a building permit. Accessory
buildings and structures two hundred (200) square feet or less shall require
site plan approval, but shall not require a building permit, as long as there
are no utilities provided to the building.
   H.   Setback requirements shall start at no less than two feet (2') for any
side and rear lot line, except on lots that are situated on a corner.
   I.   All accessory buildings and structures one hundred twenty (120) square
feet or less shall not be required to meet design standards, receive site plan
approval, or obtain a building permit, so long as there are no utilities
provided to the building and the height of the building does not exceed twelve
feet (12').
   J.   Coverage calculation is for all buildings and structures, both main and
accessory, and shall not exceed percentage as shown in table 38.1 of this
section.
   K.   No portion of the accessory building or structure shall extend over any
property line. Stormwater runoff shall be maintained on owner's property and
shall not run onto adjacent properties.
   L.   Accessory building will be required to be set back an additional foot
for each foot over the height allowed at two feet (2') from the property line.
Accessory building shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in height or the height
of the main building, whichever is less.
      TABLE 38.1
      ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
  Minimum Lot Size
  43,560 sq. ft. and 43,559 - 15,000 sq. 14,999 - 9,000 sq. 8,999 sq. ft. or
  up                 ft.                 ft.                less
                  Minimum Lot Size
                  43,560 sq. ft. 43,559 - 15,000 14,999 - 9,000 8,999 sq. ft.
                  and up         sq. ft.         sq. ft.        or less
Accessory
building and
structure
setbacks:
 Minimum front   30             30              30             25
  yard
  Minimum side
 yard (corner)   20             20              20             20
  on arterial
 Minimum side    2              2               2              2
  yard (interior)
 Minimum rear    2              2               2              2
  yard
  Distance
  between
  accessory and
 principal       6              6               6              6
  buildings and
  structures
  (same lot)
  Distance
  between
  accessory and
 principal       12             12              12             12
  buildings and
  structures
  (adjacent lot)
Height:                                                       
  Maximum height
 of principal    35 ft.         35 ft.          35 ft.         35 ft.
  building
  Maximum height
  of accessory
 building or     25 ft.         25 ft.          20 ft.         18 ft.
  structure at 2
  ft.
Lot coverage:                                                 
  Total parcel
 coverage        20%            30%             40%            40%
  calculation
Detached garage
(minimum 2 car                                                
garage):
 Minimum square  400            400             400            400
  footage
 
(Ord. 2017-06, 4-25-2017)
11-13-39: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Improvements Required: It is the responsibility of the developer of
property within the City to install or repair all required public improvements
associated with the development of the property. This includes all public
improvements to provide pedestrian and vehicular access to the property as well
as the construction of or replacement of public utilities to service the
development. Street lighting and other streetscape elements may also be
included as determined by the Community Development Director or designee and
the City Engineer or designee. All public improvements shall comply with the
most current development standards of Title 11 and the Public Work Standards at
the time of the development.
   B.   Public Improvements Guarantee Agreement: To assure the completion of
required improvements and infrastructure as required by the approved plans,
Public Works Standards, and all applicable ordinances, the Developer shall
enter into a public improvements guarantee agreement with the City and
establish a 1) cash escrow account guarantee with a federally insured financial
institution, or 2) a cash bond with the City, or 3) a surety bond with a
reputable bond provider who is licensed to issue surety bonds in the State of
Utah. The City reserves the right to review any proposed bond provider’s
performance and may reject a proposed provider whose past performance has been
questionable or who has been in business less than five (5) years.
      1.   This completion assurance shall be established prior to the issuance
of a building permit. At the developer’s discretion, they may install the
infrastructure and improvements and such infrastructure and improvements are
inspected and approved by the City prior to requesting a certificate of
occupancy, then only remaining improvements and the warranty portion of the
completion assurance shall be required.
      2.   The provisions of this section do not supersede the terms of a valid
Development Agreement, an adopted phasing plan, or the State Construction Code.
   C.   Cost Estimate: Prior to the establishment of the financial guarantee,
the Developer shall submit an Engineer’s Cost Estimate for all improvements and
infrastructure required with the development. The cost estimate shall include
quantities, units, and costs for all improvements and infrastructure required,
and shall indicate which items, if any, have already been installed.
      1.   The City Engineer or designee shall review and approve the cost
estimate and may adjust the costs to meet current industry standards. Those
items that are deemed “direct costs” shall be removed from the guarantee amount
and shall be accounted separately.
   D.   Guarantee Amount: The guarantee shall be equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the cost estimated and approved by the City Engineer.
      1.   One hundred percent (100%) shall be for the cost of those
improvements and infrastructure not yet installed; and
      2.   Ten percent (10%) shall be for a required one-year (1) warranty
period. The warranty amount calculated shall be based upon the total cost of
all required improvements and infrastructure.
   E.   Liability: The Developer and/or contractor shall indemnify and hold
harmless the City and its officers, directors, members, partners, agents,
employees, and consultants from all claims, damages, losses, and expenses,
including attorney’s fees, arising out of, or resulting from the installation
of the required improvements and infrastructure. The indemnity required hereby
shall be included in the applicable public improvement guarantee agreement.
   F.   Default: In the event the Developer is in default with any provision of
this Section, or fails or neglects to satisfactorily install the required
improvements and infrastructure within two (2) years from the date of final
land use approval, or to pay all liens in connection therewith, or to correct
deficiencies or damages to the improvements and infrastructure required for
final acceptance, the City may declare the financial guarantee forfeited and
the City may install, repair, or cause the required improvements and
infrastructure to be installed or repaired, using the proceeds from the
collection of the financial guarantee to defray the expense thereof.
      1.   The City may apply all sums deposited as part of the financial
guarantee against the cost of completing all required improvements and
infrastructure and to pay all expenses, including, but not limited to, all
unreimbursed engineering expenses related to the development, a ten percent
(10%) administration fee for the securing of contracts, and court costs and
attorney fees. The default provisions required hereby shall be included in the
applicable public improvement guarantee agreement.
         a.   Should the cost of completing all required improvements exceeds
the total or remaining financial guarantee available to the City at the time of
default, the Subdivider shall pay for the difference and all costs incurred by
the City in collecting said difference, including but not limited to the
professional services and labor costs incurred by the City to complete all
required improvements, as well as all costs incurred by the City resulting from
any legal action taken by the City related to the default of the Subdivider.
   G.   Release of Funds: The Developer shall be responsible for the quality of
all materials and workmanship. If improvements and infrastructure are properly
installed and verified via City inspections and testing, liens are paid, and
other conditions are found to be satisfactory, then the City shall authorize
the money held for the specific improvements completed (except for the 10% held
during the hereinafter described warranty period) to be released. If the
conditions of material or workmanship show unusual depreciation, or do not
comply with the acceptable standards of durability, or if required inspections
or testing have not been done, or if any outstanding liens are not paid, then
the City may withhold releasing the money and the City may declare the
Developer in default. The City shall have exclusive control over the release of
the funds, and they may be released only upon written approval by the City.
   H.   Direct Costs: The Developer shall pay the following direct costs at the
time they establish the required public improvements guarantee. The funds
collected for each item will be used for the construction and installation of
said items by the City; thus removing the Developer’s responsibility for the
installation of these items as part their development:
      1.   Funds for the current Public Works Standard seal coat treatment. The
amount shall be established by the City Engineer in accordance with recent bid
prices received for similar treatment(s).
      2.   Funds associated with any cost agreement(s) (such as a development
agreement) with the City that was established as a condition of approval. (Ord.
2024-01, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 14
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-14-1: Purpose
11-14-2: General Requirements
11-14-3: Parking Spaces Required
11-14-4: Access
11-14-5: Parking Area And Parking Lot Requirements
11-14-6: Off Street Loading
11-14-7: Other Parking Provisions
11-14-8: Other Parking Provisions
11-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the off street parking and loading requirements is to reduce
street congestion and traffic hazards in the city by incorporating adequate,
attractively designed facilities for off street parking and loading as an
integral part of every use of land in the city. (Ord. 2009-41, 11-24-2009; amd.
Ord. 2023-10, 6-13-2023)
11-14-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate Provisions Required: There shall be provided at the time of
erection of any main building or at the time any main building is enlarged or
increased in capacity or converted to a new use, minimum off street parking
space with adequate provision for ingress and egress by standard size
automobiles in accordance with the requirements herein.
   B.   Size: For the purpose of this chapter, one parking space shall be
assumed to be one hundred eighty (180) square feet (dimensions of 9 feet x 20
feet). In situations where the parking stall allows a portion of the vehicle to
extend over landscaping (“nose over landscaping”), the painted lines for the
stall may be allowed to be eighteen feet (18') in length. Ten percent (10%) of
total surface parking may be developed as “compact parking spaces” with the
parking stall dimensions of eight feet six inches by eighteen feet (8'6" x
18').
   C.   Parking Structures: Parking structures may be developed entirely with
parking stall dimensions of nine feet by eighteen feet (9' x 18'). Parking
structures shall be required to include an adequate fire suppression system.
Parking structures shall have a minimum vertical clearance of eighty-four
inches (84"). Parking structures that include ADA parking spaces, the minimum
vertical clearance for the level the ADA spaces are located shall be ninety-
eight inches (98") to accommodate the vertical clearance for wheelchair lift-
equipped vehicles.
   D.   Alternatives To On Site Parking: For any new use, structure, building
or parcel, required off street parking may be provided on other property not
more than a two hundred foot (200') distance from the nearest point of the
parcel, and shall not require persons to cross a public street. The planning
commission may consider such alternatives through the site plan process. (Off-
site parking shall not be allowed for dwellings or to accommodate parking needs
for property/parcels located either entirely or partially outside of Clearfield
City.)
   E.   Multi-Family Bedroom Counts: In determining parking requirements for
multi-family residential developments, the Zoning Administrator shall determine
(based upon submitted floor plans) the final number of bedrooms provided per
unit. This may include areas labeled as offices, dens, game rooms, etc. that
could feasibly be used as a bedroom regardless of compliance with building or
fire codes. This does not include common areas that are accessible to all
residents of a development, and only applies to the private rooms of each
residential unit. (Ord. 2015-13, 7-28-2015; amd. Ord. 2023-10, 6-13-2023)
11-14-3: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
   A.   Floor Area Defined: “Floor area”, in the case of offices, merchandising
or service types of uses, shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to
be used by tenants or for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients
or patients, including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for
display or sales of merchandise. It shall not include areas used principally
for nonpublic purposes, such as storage, incidental repair, processing or
packaging of merchandise.
   A.   Floor Area Defined: “Floor area”, in the case of offices, merchandising
or service types of uses, shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to
be used by tenants or for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients
or patients, including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for
display or sales of merchandise. It shall not include areas used principally
for nonpublic purposes, such as storage, incidental repair, processing or
packaging of merchandise.
   B.   Specific Requirements: Required off street parking shall be provided
for each use as listed below. Numbers listed shall be the minimum required.
Parking for uses not specifically listed below shall be provided in the same
ratio as the use most nearly approximating the characteristics of the unlisted
use, as determined by the planning commission.
Use   Parking Spaces Required
Use                                 Parking Spaces Required
Auditoriums, assembly halls          1 space for every 5 seats or fraction
                                      thereof
Batting cages                        2 spaces per cage
Bowling alleys                       2 spaces per lane
Churches                             1 space for every 150 square feet or
                                      fraction thereof
Daycare, commercial                  1 space per 5 students and 1 space per
                                      employee at highest shift.
                                      1 passenger vehicle space per 1,000
Distribution                         square feet of floor area.
                                      Truck and trailer storage shall be
                                      provided on a case-by-case basis.
Distribution, light                  1 passenger vehicle space per 1,000
                                      square feet of floor area.
Dwellings4:                           
 Single-family                      2 parking spaces
 Two-family1                        2 spaces per unit
                                      1.125 spaces per 1-bedroom unit; 2.125
                                      spaces per 2-bedroom unit; and 2.625
                                      spaces per 3+ bedroom unit. Any fraction
 All other multi-family1,2,3        of a space raised to the next whole
                                      number (example: 3 dwellings = 6.375
                                      spaces, which is rounded up to 7). At
                                      least 1 space per unit shall be covered.
                                      5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of sales
Fast food or drive-in restaurant     and enclosed eating space or fraction
                                      thereof.
General office                       2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                      area.
Golf courses                         8.5 spaces per hole.
Hospitals, schools, civic buildings  1 space for every 300 square feet of
                                      floor area or fraction thereof
                                      1 space per unit, plus 1 space per 200
Hotel, motel and lodge               square feet of assembly, banquet and
                                      restaurant area.
 
Use  Parking Spaces Required
Use                                      Parking Spaces Required
Industrial                              0.5 passenger vehicle space per 1,000
                                         square feet of floor area.
Industrial, light (manufacturing)       1 passenger vehicle space per 1,000
                                         square feet of floor area.
Intensive retail commercial shops       3.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet
selling directly to the public           of floor area or fraction thereof
Less intensive commercial business, as  0.75 spaces for each 1,000 square feet
furniture, appliance and lumber sales    of floor area or fraction thereof
Medical and dental offices              3.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
                                         floor area.
Misc. indoor recreation                 2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
                                         floor area.
Mortuary                                1 space for every 300 square feet of
                                         floor area or fraction thereof
Open space and recreation               Based on a case-by-case parking study.
Rehabilitation treatment center         1 space per 2 beds and 1 space per
                                         employee at highest shift.
Residential care (assisted living,      0.5 spaces per unit and 1 space per
rest home, etc.)                         employee at highest shift.
                                         10 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
Restaurants, bars                       floor area or fraction thereof, or 0.5
                                         spaces per seat, whichever is greater.
Skating rinks, swimming pools           1 space per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                         area.
Tennis and pickleball courts            2 spaces per court.
 
   1.   In cases where tandem garages are used with space for two vehicles, the
garage shall only count as 1 space for purposes of meeting minimum parking
needs.
   2.   Tandem parking within a parking garage or parking lot shall only be
permitted if the parking garage or lot includes parking attendants to park and
manage the vehicles at all times the garage or lot is open for use.
   3.   Parking behind a garage space located in an apartment building or
apartment garages is prohibited unless a driveway is provided that meets the
standards of footnote #4 below.
   4.   Driveways shall have a minimum depth of twenty feet (20') to be counted
as a parking space to meet the minimum parking standards of this title.
(Ord. 2009-41, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-10, 6-13-2023)
11-14-4: ACCESS:
   A.   Ingress And Egress:
      1.   The placement of ingress and egress to commercial and industrial
lots shall be subject to review and approval by the Clearfield City public
works staff and/or Utah department of transportation. On commercial and
industrial lots, driveway approaches shall not be more than forty-five feet
(45') in width or less than sixteen feet (16') in width for one-way traffic and
thirty feet (30') in width for two-way traffic.
      2.   On residential lots, driveway approaches shall not be less than
twelve feet (12') in width for one-way traffic and twenty-four feet (24') in
width for two-way traffic. A driveway approach with a maximum width of thirty-
four feet (34') may be permitted as approved by public works.
   B.   Spacing: In all commercial, public facilities, and manufacturing zones,
the distance between driveway approaches shall be subject to review and
approval by Clearfield City public works staff and/or Utah department of
transportation. Wherever possible, that distance shall not be less than twelve
feet (12').
   C.   Distance From Intersections: In all commercial and manufacturing zones,
driveway approaches shall not be closer to an intersection of two (2) streets,
than fifty feet (50'), measured from the corner point of the property lines.
   D.   Radii Of Approaches: The radii of driveway approaches shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10').
   E.   Residential Driveways: The minimum length of any single-, two-, or
multi-family residential driveway shall be twenty feet (20') from back of curb
or sidewalk (if present). (Ord. 2009-41, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-10, 6-13-
2023)
11-14-5: PARKING AREA AND PARKING LOT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Backing Onto Public Street: No off-street parking lot shall be constructed
in a manner that would require vehicles to back out onto a public street.
B.   Surfacing:
   1.   Requirements: Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section,
parking areas shall be properly surfaced with concrete, asphalt, or masonry
pavers, maintained in good condition, and kept free of weeds, dust, trash, and
debris.
   December 2023
11-14-5   11-14-5
   2.   Residential Parking Areas:
      a.   All new main residential driveways, approaches, and parking spaces
required by this title shall be surfaced with concrete, asphalt or other hard
surfaced (impermeable) pavement material. All new main residential driveways
shall have a minimum depth from the front property line to the front of the
residence or garage of twenty feet (20').
      b.   Any gravel or crushed rock installed for accessory parking in a
residential zone after July 1, 2014, must be a minimum of two inches (2") deep,
compacted, placed atop a weed barrier, be maintained completely free of grass
and weeds, and contained within durable borders.
      c.   Legally established, but nonconforming residential gravel driveways
installed prior to July 1, 2014, may continue to be utilized, provided they are
properly maintained and kept completely free of grass and weeds.
   3.   Variations: Variations to the required surface materials set forth in
subsection B1 of this section may be permitted for residential parking in the
A-1 agricultural zone and for temporary businesses and special events for which
the necessary permits or licenses have been issued by the city.
C.   Grading: Parking lots shall be graded for proper drainage.
D.   Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate an off-site parking area shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any
residential district.
E.   Design: As a minimum requirement, parking areas shall comply with the
standards as shown below. Travel lanes between dual rows of ninety-degree (90°)
parking may be developed at twenty-four feet (24') in width subject to prior
approval from the city engineer and the North Davis fire district. Primary
access points to the parking lot, or the access lane located closest to the
primary structure on the lot must be provided with twenty-six foot (26') travel
lanes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fe9b739d65a2412fbdac57f09cec052be919e64/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2515.png]
 
   F.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   On doubled rows of parking stalls, there shall be a forty-foot (40')
long by nine-foot (9') wide landscaped island on each end of the rows, plus a
forty-foot (40') long by nine-foot (9') wide landscaped island to be placed at
a minimum of every twelve (12) parking stalls. Each island on doubled parking
rows shall include a minimum of two (2) deciduous trees, having a minimum trunk
size of two inches (2") in caliper measured eight inches (8") above the soil
line. Other landscaping installed in the island shall include shrubbery and an
acceptable ground cover. No hard surface improvements such as concrete or
asphalt are allowed within any landscape islands.
      2.   On single rows of parking there shall be a twenty-foot (20') long by
nine-foot (9') wide landscaped island a minimum of every twelve (12) stalls. In
situations where the parking stall allows a portion of the vehicle to extend
over landscaping (“nose over landscaping”), the island planter may be allowed
to be no less than eighteen feet (18') in length. Islands on a single parking
row shall have a minimum of one deciduous tree having a minimum trunk size of
two inches (2") in caliper measured eight inches (8") above the soil line.
Other landscaping installed in the island shall include shrubbery and an
acceptable ground cover. No hard surface improvements such as concrete or
asphalt are allowed within any landscaped islands.
      3.   Landscaped islands at the ends of parking rows shall be placed and
shaped in such a manner as to help direct traffic through the parking area.
There shall be a break in parking rows at a minimum of forty-eight (48) parking
stalls for each double row of parking for the purpose of facilitating traffic
circulation on the site.
      4.   Interior parking lot islands are not required for industrial
properties in order to facilitate traffic flow for large vehicles and proper
snow removal.
      5.   All landscaping improvements required by this section shall be
installed in accordance with the approved site plan, landscaping plan, and
irrigation plan. They shall be completed prior to the issuance of a certificate
of occupancy for the building or structure with which they are associated, or
in cases of inclement weather, within six (6) months of the date of initial
occupancy. Date of initial occupancy will be the date that a certificate of
occupancy is issued for the first building or facility of an individual phase
or plat of the development.
      6.   All landscaping required by this section shall be properly irrigated
with an automatic irrigation system.
   G.   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   Landscaping shall be required around the perimeter of parking areas.
Landscaped areas adjacent to street frontages shall be a minimum of ten feet
(10') in width. Landscaped areas adjacent to parcels that have the same land
use shall be a minimum of six feet (6') wide. A fence, landscaping screen, or
berm is required around the perimeter of the parking area to mitigate escape of
light from headlights and other lighting on surrounding property.
      2.   When parking areas abut a front yard or road frontage landscaped
area, such parking area shall be screened by the following methods or a
combination of any of the following that is capable of blocking headlight glare
and shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Landscape hedge screening shall be planted and maintained as a
continuous landscape hedge not less than three feet (3') in height, measured
from finish grade of the parking lot, and located outside of public rights of
way. Plant materials shall be an evergreen species, a minimum of five (5)
gallon size and spaced not farther than five feet (5') on center. The landscape
hedge shall be set back a minimum of three feet (3') and a maximum of six feet
(6') from the perimeter of any parking space, driveway, or any access aisle.
Ground covers and shrubs planted within the clear vision triangle area shall
not exceed three feet (3') (36 inches) in height.
         b.   Berms shall measure not less than three feet (3') in height from
finish grade of the parking lot and shall not be located in public rights of
way. The toe of the berm shall be set back a minimum of three feet (3') and a
maximum of six feet (6') from the perimeter of any parking space, driveway, or
any access aisle. The maximum slope of the berm shall not exceed four to one
(4:1).
         c.   Parking screen walls shall measure not less than three feet (3')
and not more than four feet (4') in height from finish grade of the parking
lot. Parking screen walls shall not be located in public rights of way, or on
top of any retaining walls. Walls shall be set back a minimum of three feet
(3') and a maximum of six feet (6') from the perimeter of any parking space,
driveway, or any access aisle, as measured from the back of curb. Walls shall
be constructed of decorative block, brick, stone, or similar materials and
finished on both the interior and exterior elevations. Horizontal and/or
vertical variation in the design of screen wall is required whenever linear
alignment exceeds one hundred feet (100').
   In instances, when the parking lot and adjacent roadway are determined by
the zoning administrator to be at slopes where the three feet (3') in height
measured from the finished grade of the parking lot does not provide adequate
screening, measurements from the higher finished grade of the property should
be used, and the measurement of the screening (wall, berm, or landscape) is not
to be less than three feet (3') in height.
      3.   On single rows of parking along the perimeter of a parking lot,
there shall be a twenty-foot (20') long by nine-foot (9') wide landscaped
island a minimum of every twelve (12) stalls. In situations where the parking
stall allows a portion of the vehicle to extend over landscaping (“nose over
landscaping”), the island planter may be allowed to be no less than eighteen
feet (18') in length. Islands on a single parking row shall have a minimum of
one deciduous tree having a minimum trunk size of two inches (2") in caliper
measured eight inches (8") above the soil line. Other landscaping installed in
the island shall include shrubbery and an acceptable ground cover. No hard
surface improvements such as concrete or asphalt are allowed within any
landscaped islands.
      4.   All landscaping improvements required by this section shall be
installed in accordance with the approved site plan, landscaping plan, and
irrigation plan. They shall be completed prior to the issuance of a certificate
of occupancy for the building or structure with which they are associated, or
in cases of inclement weather, within six (6) months of the date of initial
occupancy. Date of initial occupancy will be the date that a certificate of
occupancy is issued for the first building or facility of an individual phase
or plat of the development.
      5.   All landscaping required by this section shall be properly irrigated
with an automatic irrigation system.
   H.   Snow Stacking Area: Every parking lot design shall plan for a snow
stacking area to accommodate the stacking volume of a four-inch (4") snow base
over the entire parking lot. (Ord. 2009-41, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2011-10, 9-
27-2011; Ord. 2014-15, 6-24-2014, eff. 7-1-2014; Ord. 2015-13, 7-28-2015; Ord.
2015-19, 12-8-2015; Ord. 2021-11, 7-27-2021; Ord. 2023-10, 6-13-2023)
11-14-6: OFF STREET LOADING:
   A.   Required: For every building or part thereof having a gross floor area
of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more which is to be occupied by a
commercial or industrial use or from which deliveries of materials or
merchandise are made by motor vehicles, there shall be provided and maintained
on the same lot with the building at least one off street loading space, plus
one for each additional twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or major fraction
thereof.
   B.   Size Of Loading Space: Each loading space shall be not less than
fourteen feet (14') in width, twenty-five feet (25') in length and have an
overhead clearance of not less than fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Location Of Loading Space: Required loading spaces may occupy any
required yard or court, except that if it shall be located closer than fifty
feet (50') to any residential zone, it shall be enclosed by a brick or stone
wall, or landscaping not less than six feet (6') in height. (Ord. 2009-41, 11-
24-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-10, 6-13-2023)
11-14-7: PRIVATE GARAGE STANDARDS:
   A.   Single-Family Dwellings: Each dwelling unit shall have an attached two
(2) car garage that complies with the following standards:
      1.   Minimum Dimensions: Each garage shall have minimum dimensions of no
less than twenty-two feet (22') wide by twenty-two feet (22') deep.
      2.   Minimum Garage Door Opening: Each garage shall have a minimum garage
door opening of not less than sixteen feet (16') wide.
      3.   Minimum Garage Height: Garages shall have a minimum unobstructed
height of not less than eight feet (8') for the entire length and width of the
garage.
   B.   Two- and Multi-Family Dwellings: If provided, garages shall comply with
the following standards:
      1.   Single-Car Garages:
         a.   Minimum Area/Dimensions: Each single (1) car garage shall have a
minimum area of two hundred and twenty (220) square feet and minimum dimensions
of no less than ten feet (10') wide by twenty-two feet (22') deep or eleven
feet (11') wide by twenty feet (20') deep. The minimum garage area shall be
free of obstructions such as stairs, mechanical equipment, or structural
appendages including but not limited to columns.
         b.   Minimum Garage Door Opening: Each single (1) car garage shall
have a minimum garage door opening of not less than eight feet (8') wide.
         c.   Minimum Garage Height: Garages shall have a minimum unobstructed
height of not less than eight feet (8') for the entire length and width of the
garage.
      2.   Two-Car Garages:
         a.   Minimum Area/Dimensions: Each two (2) car garage shall have a
minimum area of four hundred and forty (440) square feet and minimum dimensions
of no less than twenty feet (20') wide by twenty-two feet (22') deep. The
minimum garage area shall be free of obstructions such as stairs, mechanical
equipment, or structural appendages including but not limited to columns.
         b.   Minimum Garage Door Opening: Each two (2) car garage shall have a
minimum garage door opening of not less than sixteen feet (16') wide.
         c.   Minimum Garage Height: Garages shall have a minimum unobstructed
height of not less than eight feet (8') for the entire length and width of the
garage. (Ord 2023-10, 6-13-2023)
11-14-8: OTHER PARKING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Drive-In Businesses: Driveways, parking areas and off-street storage
lanes for automobiles awaiting entrance to drive-in theaters, banks,
restaurants, etc., shall be provided.
   B.   Joint Use Parking Areas: Joint or common parking facilities may be
provided in lieu of the individual requirements found in this chapter;
provided, that the total of such off street parking spaces, when used together,
shall not be less than the sum of the various uses computed separately. If the
common facilities are located on more than one lot, a covenant for the
preservation of the parking facilities must be filed with the city.
   C.   Compliance With Americans With Disabilities Act: In addition to the
requirements of this chapter, parking areas shall be designed to conform to the
minimum requirements of the Americans with disabilities act. (Ord. 2009-41, 11-
24-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-10, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 15
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-15-1: Purpose
11-15-2: Scope
11-15-3: Interpretation
11-15-4: Enforcement
11-15-5: Nonconforming Signs
11-15-6: Prohibited Sign Devices
11-15-7: Signs Allowed Without A Permit
11-15-8: Signs That Require A Permit
11-15-9: Temporary Signs
11-15-10: Permit Process
11-15-11: Site Plan Review; Sign Design
11-15-12: Required Permit Information
11-15-13: Safety And Location Standards For Permanent Signs
11-15-14: Measurement Of Regulated Sign Area
11-15-15: Definitions
11-15-16: Appeals
11-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and to authorize the use of signs
that are compatible with their surroundings, are legible under the
circumstances in which they are seen, are effective in indexing the
environment, are conducive to promoting traffic safety, and for the convenience
and enjoyment of public travel by preventing visual distraction, protecting
pedestrians, preserving and enhancing property values, establishing first class
business and commercial districts, and eliminating fire hazards.
It is also the purpose of this chapter to promote short and long term civic
beauty and order by establishing standards and regulations for sign design,
location, size, type, compatibility, and aesthetics. By doing so, this chapter
will help to create streetscapes that are functional and attractive to both
residents of Clearfield City and visitors. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-2: SCOPE:
The intent of this chapter is to regulate the design and placement of
residential, commercial and governmental identification/communication devices
and structures that are built specifically to identify, inform, and direct
patrons to a particular merchant, store, establishment, or service. It is not
the intent of this chapter to regulate the content of public speech. The
requirements of this chapter are intended to apply to both on premises and off
premises signs, but do not apply to handheld placards and other similar devices
traditionally used for public protest and the exercise of free speech. Any
noncommercial message may be substituted for any commercial message permitted
under this chapter. Any sign not expressly allowed by this chapter is
prohibited. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the sign
regulations contained herein are declared to be the maximum allowable for the
purposes set forth. If the zoning administrator determines that an application
needs further interpretation, he may request planning commission review of the
proposal.
If the applicant wishes to propose or retain a sign that exceeds ordinance
standards, he may apply to the planning commission for a variance or special
exception as outlined in section
11-15-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-30, 12-9-2014)
11-15-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The planning and zoning administrator or designee shall enforce all rules and
regulations necessary to the operation and enforcement of this chapter. The
planning and zoning administrator or designee shall be empowered and directed
to:
   A.   Issue Permits: Issue permits to construct, alter, or repair signs that
conform to the provisions of this title. The expiration date for such permits
shall be one hundred eighty (180) days from the time the permit is issued.
   B.   Determine Conformance: Ensure that all signs are constructed in
conformance with this title. Clearfield City will perform:
      1.   Initial Inspection After Construction: The planning and zoning
administrator or designee may make an initial inspection upon the completion of
construction, erection, reerection, or remodeling of any sign for which a
permit has been issued and an inspection request is made. This shall also
include the inspection of temporary electrical signs.
      2.   Reinspection (When Necessary): The planning and zoning administrator
or designee may make a reinspection of any sign for which a permit was issued
but which upon primary inspection was not built in conformance with the
regulations of this title.
   C.   Legal Action: The planning and zoning administrator or designee shall
institute any appropriate action or proceeding in any case where any sign is
illegally erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or
maintained, or in any case where any sign is used in violation of any city
ordinance including, but not limited to, the provisions of this title by:
      1.   Issuing Notices Of Violations And Citations: The planning and zoning
administrator or designee may issue a written notice of violation to the person
having charge or control or benefit of any sign found to be unsafe or dangerous
or in violation of this code, particularly when the city is contemplating
removal of said sign. Such official may also issue civil citations and swear to
information against violators.
      2.   Abating And Removing Unsafe Or Dangerous Sign: If an unsafe or
dangerous sign is not repaired or made safe within five (5) working days, after
giving said notice, the city may at once abate and remove said sign and the
person having charge, control, or benefit of any such sign shall pay to
Clearfield City, within thirty (30) calendar days, after written notice is
mailed to such person, the costs incurred in such removal.
      3.   Abating And Removing Illegal Signs:
         a.   Permanent signs installed on private property in violation of
this chapter shall be brought into conformance within thirty (30) calendar days
of written notice by the city, either through removal of the sign or by
obtaining a sign permit. Any sign not brought into compliance within the time
period given in the notice may at once be abated and removed by the planning
and zoning administrator or designee. The person responsible for any such
illegal sign shall be liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof, and
the city is authorized to effect the collection of said cost.
         b.   Temporary signs installed on private property in violation of
this chapter shall be brought into conformance within twenty four (24) hours of
written notice by the city, either through removal of the temporary sign or by
obtaining a temporary sign permit. Any sign not brought into compliance within
the time period given in the notice may at once be abated and removed by the
planning and zoning administrator or designee. The person responsible for any
such illegal sign shall be liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof,
and the city is authorized to effect the collection of said cost.
         c.   Any sign posted upon public property may be removed by the city
without notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the sign, though removed, shall
not be destroyed in a period less than thirty (30) calendar days, unless said
sign is of the nature that it will have no value after the date of removal.
      4.   Abating And Removing Nonmaintained, Abandoned, Or Sign Identifying
Discontinued Use: The planning and zoning administrator or designee shall
require each nonmaintained, abandoned, or sign identifying a discontinued use
to be removed from the building or premises when such sign has not been
repaired or put into use by the owner, person having control or person
receiving benefit of such sign within forty five (45) calendar days after
written notice has been given to the owner, person having control, or person
receiving benefit of such structure.
   D.   Failure To Remove Or Abate Any Illegal Sign: In no case shall failure
to remove or abate any illegal sign constitute approval by the city of such
sign. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-5: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Regulation, Containment, And Elimination: In order to minimize
confusion and unfair competitive disadvantage to those businesses that are
required to satisfy the standards of this chapter, the city shall apply firm
regulation of existing nonconforming signs with a view to their eventual
elimination. This goal shall be achieved by strictly enforcing limits on
change, expansion, alteration, abandonment, and restoration. Excluding normal
maintenance and repair, a nonconforming sign shall not be moved, altered
(excluding face changes) or enlarged unless it is brought into complete
compliance with this chapter. The following alterations are exempt from this
provision:
      1.   Face changes in nonconforming multi-tenant signs; and
      2.   Copy changes in nonconforming permanent signs that were originally
approved by the City with a changeable copy feature.
   B.   Abandonment: Any sign that is abandoned shall be removed or brought
into compliance by the property owner in accordance with section
11-15-4 of this chapter. If removal does not occur, Clearfield City may have
the entire nonconforming sign (both face and structure) removed. The person
responsible for any such abandoned sign shall be liable for the cost incurred
in the removal thereof, and the City is authorized to effect the collection of
said cost. An abandoned sign may not regain any legal nonconforming status
later, even if the original business reoccupies the property. (Ord. 2009-45,
11-24-2009)
11-15-6: PROHIBITED SIGN DEVICES:
   A.   Enumerated: The following signs are prohibited in any zone in
Clearfield City. Any sign not specifically allowed by this chapter shall also
be prohibited:
      1.   Balloons or other inflatable objects, except as specifically allowed
by this chapter.
      2.   Any sign that flashes, blinks, uses chaser lights, etc., or moves in
any way, animate or inanimate. (Commercial signs may be approved with time/
temperature or electronic message center capability.) Subtle lighting changes
of low intensity are allowed.
      3.   Roof signs.
      4.   Signs placed over other signs.
      5.   Temporary signs, except those provided for in this chapter.
      6.   Any truck, trailer, or other vehicle conspicuously or regularly
parked on or off premises with an advertising message or logo displayed to
attract attention to a business, product or promotion, unless such vehicle is
used on a daily basis for personal or business transportation. The Planning and
Zoning Administrator or designee may require the removal of such vehicle if in
his opinion such vehicle is being utilized for advertising purposes.
      7.   Strobe lights.
      8.   Graffiti.
      9.   Spotlights directed into the night sky except as part of an approved
promotional period for temporary signs.
      10.   Off premises signs, except as allowed by this chapter. (Ord. 2010-
12, 6-22-2010)
      11.   Flags shall not be allowed for advertising purposes except as
allowed by this chapter. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017)
   B.   Handbills, Signs; Public Places And Objects:
      1.   No person shall paint, mark or write on, or post or otherwise affix,
any handbill or sign to or upon any public property, including, but not limited
to, any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb, curbstone, park strip, street lamppost,
hydrant, tree, shrub, tree stake or guard, railroad trestle, electric light or
power or telephone or telegraph pole, or wire appurtenance thereof or upon any
lighting system, public bridge, drinking fountain, life saving equipment,
street sign or traffic sign.
      2.   Any handbill or sign found posted upon any public property contrary
to the provisions of this section may be removed by any City official without
further notice. The person responsible for any such illegal posting shall be
liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof and the City is authorized
to effect the collection of said cost.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall apply to the installation of a metal
plaque or plate or individual letters or figures in a sidewalk commemorating a
historical, cultural, or artistic event, location, or personality for which the
Public Works Department has granted a written permit.
      4.   Nothing in this section shall apply to the painting of house numbers
upon curbs.
      5.   Nothing in this section shall apply to signs owned or installed by
the City or any other authorized public entity. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-7: SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.   Allowed In Any Zone: The following signs are allowed in any zone
(except on public property) without a sign permit:
      1.   Directional Or Instructional Signs: Signs which provide direction or
instruction and are located entirely on premises and which do not in any way
advertise a business shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area or four feet
(4') in height. These signs may identify restrooms, public telephones, and
walkways; or shall provide direction such as parking lot entrance and exit
signs and those of a similar nature.
      2.   No Trespassing Or No Dumping Signs: "No trespassing" or "no dumping"
signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area for a single sign or
four (4) signs at four (4) square feet for each lot unless the Planning and
Zoning Administrator finds more signs are required to prevent violation.
      3.   Plaques: Plaques or nameplate signs not more than two (2) square
feet that are fastened directly to the building.
      4.   Symbols Or Insignia: Religious symbols, commemorative plaques of
recognized historical agencies, or identification emblems of religious orders
or historical agencies, provided that no such sign shall exceed eight (8)
square feet in area; and provided further that all such signs be placed flat
against the building.
      5.   Residential Neighborhood Identification Signs: In any zone, a sign,
masonry wall, landscaping and other similar materials or features may be
combined to form a display for neighborhood identification, provided that the
legend of such sign or display shall consist of only the neighborhood name and/
or address.
      6.   Institutional Uses: Churches, public schools, public utility
companies, libraries, governmental buildings, parks, public golf courses, etc.,
are allowed one monument sign of thirty two (32) square feet. If the
institution has more than one frontage and is located on an arterial street,
then an additional sign of the same size is allowed. Wall signs for
institutional uses shall be regulated as per subsection 11-15-8E of this
chapter.
      7.   Flags: The flags, emblems, or insignia of any nation or political
subdivision. Corporation flags may not exceed twelve (12) square feet and may
be flown in tandem with the State or national flag. Large flags flown in high
wind may cause a noise nuisance and are subject to removal upon investigation.
      8.   Public Necessity Signs: Signs installed by a unit of the government
for control of traffic and other regulatory purposes; including street signs,
danger and warning signs, railroad crossing signs, hospital signs, directional
or warning signs for public service companies, utilities or institutions, or
signs erected by or on the order of a public officer in the performance of his
public duty.
      9.   Memorial Signs: Memorial signs or tablets with the names of
buildings and date of erection cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to
be part of the building.
      10.   Notice Bulletin Boards: Notice bulletin boards not over thirty two
(32) square feet in area for medical, public, charitable or religious
institutions. Such signs shall be located on the premises of such institutions
and be oriented solely to the interior of the property and not used to direct
exterior pedestrian or vehicular attention to any product or service of the
institution.
      11.   Holiday Decorations: Noncommercial signs of a primarily decorative
nature, clearly incidental, customary and commonly associated with any
national, local, or religious holiday. Such signs may be of any type, number,
area, and shall be contained entirely within the boundaries of the lot or
premises on which they are erected and should be placed so as to avoid
confusion with authorized traffic lights and signals and shall conform to
traffic safety standards. They shall be removed within fourteen (14) days after
the holiday.
      12.   Changing Copy: The changing of the message on a permitted sign that
has an approved marquee, reader board, electronic message center, or other
replaceable copy area. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
      13.   Municipal Field Signs: Interior signs shall be allowed at approved
playing fields located at Steed Park and Fisher Park. A Municipal field sign
located at Steed Park or Fisher Park shall be intended for those attending or
participating in the activity occurring within the Municipal field the sign is
located on within the park. If a Municipal field sign located within Steed Park
or Fisher Park is visible to those not attending or participating in the
activity taking place at the Municipal field, such visibility must be ancillary
to the sign's intent, as determined by the City.
      14.   Political Or Campaign Signs: In addition to signage otherwise
authorized by this chapter, political or campaign signs on behalf of candidates
for public office or measures on election ballots are allowed as follows:
         a.   Political or campaign signs shall not be erected earlier than
thirty (30) days prior to the mailing of ballots for a primary election, or in
such cases where no primary election is held, no earlier than thirty (30) days
prior to the mailing of ballots for the general election. All political or
campaign signs shall be removed by the Monday following a general election.
Candidates who lose a primary election shall remove signs by the Monday
following the primary election. Signs relating to elections on special issues
may be installed and must be removed on the same basis.
         b.   Any one political or campaign sign shall not exceed thirty two
(32) square feet in aggregate area and, if freestanding, shall not exceed eight
feet (8') in height. Such sign shall not be erected in a manner as to
constitute a roof sign. Signs may not be placed on public property, in a public
right-of-way, or in any place that would impede traffic visibility or safety.
Signs along unimproved roadways may not be placed closer than ten feet (10') to
the edge of the travel surface.
         c.   Political or campaign signs shall not be placed closer than one
hundred fifty feet (150') to a building where any official voting station is
located. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017)
   B.   Allowed In Residential Zones: The following signs shall be allowed in
residential zones without a permit as prescribed herein:
      1.   On Premises Development Identification Signs:
         a.   Individual Lots: One sign announcing the name of the
construction/development company is allowed. The area of the sign shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet or six feet (6') in height. The sign shall not
be erected more than five (5) days prior to the beginning of construction for
which a valid building permit has been issued. It shall be removed before final
occupancy.
         b.   Subdivisions: One development promotional sign may be placed on
the premises at each entrance of a development having five (5) or more lots or
approved unit sites in any residential zone. The size allowed for the sign
depends on the number of lots to be developed:
 
5 - 24 units (lots) 64 square feet
25 - 49 units       96 square feet
50 or more units    128 square feet
Maximum height      12 feet
 
Such signs shall be removed within five (5) years of the issuance of the first
building permit in the project; or, if the lots are sold out before five (5)
years, the sign shall be removed immediately upon sale of the last lot.
One balloon shall also be allowed for each subdivision or residential
development having five (5) or more lots or approved unit sites in any
residential zone. The balloon shall not exceed two hundred feet (200') in
height, and shall only be displayed during daylight hours.
      2.   On Premises Real Estate Signs:
         a.   Signs advertising the sale, rent, or lease of property shall be
limited to one real estate sign on each lot. Each such sign shall not exceed
six (6) square feet in size and six feet (6') in height.
         b.   One real estate sign per street frontage is allowed for any
multiuse residential or professional office building or lot intended for such.
Each sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area or eight feet
(8') in height. If the parcel is over two (2) acres in size, the sign shall not
exceed sixty four (64) square feet in area or ten feet (10') in height.
         c.   Model home signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in
area or six feet (6') in height, and shall be placed entirely upon the premises
of the model.
      3.   Open House Real Estate Signs: Up to six (6) open house real estate
signs shall be allowed for each open house. Open house signs shall not exceed
six (6) square feet in area and four feet (4') in height, and shall only be
placed on private property. Open house real estate signs shall be displayed
only during those hours and day(s) that the house is open for actual
inspection.
      4.   On Premises Signs For Home Occupations: Home occupations with a
valid business license from the City shall be permitted to display one
nonilluminated, flat wall sign no greater than three (3) square feet in area
that identifies the name of the business.
      5.   Special Event Signs: Signage for noncommercial special events, such
as a birth, anniversary, or homecoming, may be displayed on premises for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
   C.   Allowed In Commercial And Manufacturing Zones: The following signs
shall be allowed in Commercial and Manufacturing Zones without a permit as
prescribed herein:
      1.   On Premises Development Identification Signs: One sign announcing or
identifying the future development of nonresidential property shall be allowed
along each public or private street frontage for the parcel(s) to be developed.
The sign(s) shall not be erected before the proposed development has received
site plan approval, and shall be removed before final inspection of the
building or before permanent signs are installed. Each sign shall not exceed
sixty four (64) square feet in area or fifteen feet (15') in height.
      2.   On Premises Real Estate Signs: One on premises real estate sign per
street frontage shall be allowed for any commercial or manufacturing building
or lot intended for such. Each sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square
feet in area or eight feet (8') in height, except on parcels larger than two
(2) acres, for which each sign may be up to sixty four (64) square feet in
size.
      3.   Window Signs: Window signs shall be allowed, provided that no more
than thirty percent (30%) of any window or group of windows is occupied by a
sign or combination of signs.
      4.   Menu Boards: Menu boards for restaurants shall be allowed. The
location of menu boards for drive-in restaurants shall be subject to review by
the Planning Commission through the site plan process. The following standards
shall apply:
         a.   Only two (2) menu boards are allowed per site. Each sign shall be
located behind the front landscaped setback area.
         b.   No menu board shall exceed thirty five (35) square feet in area
or six feet (6') in height. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-8: SIGNS THAT REQUIRE A PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this title, it shall
be unlawful for any person to erect, alter, relocate, direct, or order a person
to erect, alter, or relocate any of the following signs within the City without
first obtaining a permit or permits from the City. A fee for the permit shall
be paid by the applicant in accordance with the City's current fee schedule.
(Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
   B.   Sign Theme Required: All multi-tenant centers/buildings shall adhere to
a consistent theme and utilize similar materials for all project signage. (Ord.
2009-45, 11-24-2009)
   C.   On Premises Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall be allowed as
follows:
      1.   Commercial or manufacturing parcels or centers less than ten (10)
acres in size: No freestanding signs shall be allowed.
      2.   Commercial or manufacturing parcels or centers ten (10) acres or
larger in size: One freestanding sign shall be allowed per three hundred feet
(300') of street frontage. Sign area shall not exceed three hundred (300)
square feet, and sign height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35'). Signs
shall comply with the clear vision regulations found in section
11-13-10 of this title.
      3.   For centers with more than one sign, there shall be a minimum
separation of two hundred fifty (250) lineal feet between each sign.
      4.   Reader boards, changeable copy areas and electronic message centers:
No such device shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total copy area of the
freestanding sign.
      5.   Signs must be integrated into the development with a common theme or
integrated architecturally with the buildings.
      6.   Signs shall have at least a one foot (1') pedestal that is
constructed of materials such as stone, brick, or rock with landscaping around
the base of each sign. (Ord. 2019-06, 2-26-2019)
   D.   Monument Signs: Monument signs shall be allowed for commercial or
manufacturing uses. The following standards shall apply:
      1.   Sign Area: No monument sign shall exceed sixty four (64) square feet
in area.
      2.   Minimum Street Frontage: There shall be a minimum street frontage of
fifty feet (50') per monument sign. In no case shall there be more than two (2)
monument signs per street frontage for any freestanding building on its own lot
or for any planned commercial or manufacturing center.
      3.   Minimum Distance: No monument sign shall be located within one
hundred feet (100') of another monument or freestanding sign on the same side
of the street, whether on the same parcel or on an adjacent parcel.
      4.   Sign Height: Monument signs shall have at least a one foot (1')
pedestal, and the illuminated cabinet shall not exceed five feet (5') for a
total of six feet (6') except along 1700 South, SR-126 and SR-193 where
monument signs shall have at least a one foot (1') pedestal, and the
illuminated cabinet shall not exceed eight feet (8') or a total of nine feet
(9'). The height to the top of the sign as measured from the street curb may
vary depending upon landscaping, but the combined height of the sign and
berming/landscaping shall not exceed nine feet (9'). The sign base shall be
landscaped.
      5.   Reader Boards: Reader boards (changeable copy areas) and electronic
message centers shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total monument sign
area.
      6.   Freestanding Monument Signs: A monument sign allowed by this section
may be substituted with a freestanding monument sign.
   E.   Wall Signs: Wall signs shall be allowed as follows:
      1.   One wall sign shall be permitted per business. Businesses with
multiple exposures (such as a single tenant in a freestanding building or a
tenant occupying a corner space in a multi-tenant building) shall be allowed
one wall sign per front and side building elevations. Each wall sign shall be
limited in size to fifteen percent (15%) or six hundred (600) square feet,
whichever is less, of the flat wall area.
      2.   Wall signs in a multi-tenant building may be used to advertise a
single tenant or multiple tenants.
      3.   No part of any wall sign or of the sign structure shall project
above or below the highest or lowest part of the wall upon which the sign is
mounted or painted.
      4.   No wall sign, including any light box or structural part thereof,
shall project more than eighteen inches (18") from the face of the building to
which it is attached.
   F.   Billboards: No new billboards shall be permitted after the effective
date hereof. Existing billboards shall comply with the following regulations:
      1.   Location: Billboards shall be allowed only on commercial parcels
adjacent to the Interstate I-15 right of way and Legend Hills Drive. Billboards
shall be oriented for freeway viewing and shall be located within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of the nearest freeway lane.
      2.   Size, Height And Spacing: Billboards shall be regulated as follows:
         a.   Size: Maximum area of one face of a sign (whether single or
double faced) shall be six hundred seventy five (675) square feet.
         b.   Height: Maximum height of billboards shall be forty five feet
(45') above the grade of the traveled way of the interstate.
         c.   Spacing: No billboard shall be erected within five hundred feet
(500') of another billboard on the same side of the street, or of an Interstate
I-15 interchange.
      3.   Sign Construction: All billboards shall be of a monopole
construction.
      4.   Conditional Use Permit: Billboards shall require a conditional use
permit, to be obtained in accordance with the provisions of chapter 4 of this
title.
   G.   Suspended Signs: Suspended signs may be used in place of wall signs if
the architecture of the building or planned center lends itself to that design.
The following standards shall apply:
      1.   The maximum size of a suspended sign shall be twenty (20) square
feet.
      2.   Suspended signs shall not extend beyond five feet (5') of the
building facade to which they are attached.
      3.   Suspended signs shall have at least an eight foot (8') clearance
above the sidewalk or seven feet (7') above any landscaped area.
      4.   There shall be a minimum horizontal distance of fifteen feet (15')
between suspended signs.
   H.   Awning Signs: Awning signs shall be allowed as follows:
      1.   The planning and zoning administrator shall approve any application
for an awning sign that fully complies with these standards.
      2.   Awning signs in planned centers shall be designed to conform to an
approved sign theme.
      3.   No awning signs shall be allowed on multi-tenant buildings or in
planned centers unless the building or center has consistent treatment.
      4.   Awning signs shall be limited to single-story buildings or to the
first level only of multi-story buildings.
      5.   Awning signs shall function as true awnings by being placed over a
doorway, window, or walkway to protect such from the elements.
      6.   Awning signs shall not be allowed on or above sloping or mansard
roofs.
      7.   The area of awning signs shall be a maximum of fifteen percent (15%)
of the primary wall upon which the sign is mounted. Awning signs for secondary
walls are limited to five percent (5%) of the wall area.
      8.   Area of copy/logo on awnings shall be limited to forty percent (40%)
of the awning. Illuminated signs on other sides shall be permitted.
      9.   Awning signs shall conform to all provisions of the currently
adopted building code governing such structures.
      10.   Illuminated (backlit), translucent, vinyl awnings shall not be
permitted. Translucent letters or accents sewn into opaque canvas or acrylic
awnings shall be permitted.
      11.   Awning signs shall not project out from the wall more than eight
feet (8') or less than two feet (2'). In the case of entrance canopies the
awning may project out from the building over a walkway and shall lead to a
bona fide business entrance. Such canopies shall be permitted if they are
compatible with the architecture of the building.
      12.   Awning signs shall not project above the "roofline", defined as the
highest part of the vertical wall.
      13.   Awning signs shall maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet (7')
to the bottom of the valance and eight feet (8') to the frame above the
sidewalk and comply with all other clearance requirements.
      14.   Awning signs shall be maintained in a clean, safe and attractive
condition. Failure to do so shall result in revocation of the sign permit.
   I.   Gas Station Canopy Signs: Signs for canopies over gas islands are
regulated as follows:
      1.   Sign copy, corporate logos, etc., may be a maximum of fifteen
percent (15%) of one face of the canopy.
      2.   Up to three (3) sides of the canopy may be used for signs.
      3.   The height to the top of the canopy shall not exceed twenty feet
(20') from grade and no canopy fascia shall exceed four feet (4') in height.
      4.   Individual letters, logos, or symbols shall not exceed four feet
(4') in height or project out from the surface of the canopy more than eighteen
inches (18") or project above or below the canopy face.
      5.   Gas price signs shall be allowed on a monument sign or below the
canopy over the pumps. One double faced sign for each type of fuel sold is
allowed per gas island with a maximum of four (4) sets per station. Area of
said sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet each.
   J.   Temporary Signs: Permits for temporary signs shall be required in
accordance with section
11-15-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-11, 6-25-
2024)
11-15-9: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   Standards For Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall not be placed in
or over a public right of way, may not flash, blink, spin, rotate, block
traffic visibility, constitute a vehicular or pedestrian traffic hazard, or
cause a public nuisance of any kind. They shall not be attached to telephone
poles, fences, or trees. They shall be firmly secured to the building or
ground. Temporary signs may be attached to existing permanent signs only for a
grand opening period. Temporary signs may cover or obscure an existing
permanent sign only if the business has changed hands or changed names. No off
premises temporary signs are allowed. All temporary signs shall require a
permit, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No temporary signage
shall be allowed for home occupations.
   B.   Allowed Purposes:
      1.   Business Grand Openings: Temporary signs announcing the initial
opening of a business, or the relocation, or change of ownership of an existing
business may be allowed provided that the event shall not continue for more
than sixty (60) days and is declared to the city. The permit for a grand
opening sign must be issued within the first year of operation. There shall be
no more than two (2) grand opening signs allowed per business. The signs shall
comply with general size and location standards for signage in this chapter and
shall be removed at the end of the sixty (60) day period. Note: "Now Open",
"Grand Opening", "New Location of", "New ownership", etc., are appropriate type
messages for such signs. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
      2.   Going Out Of Business/Bankruptcy Period: A business may post a
temporary sign in order to facilitate the liquidation of inventory for a
failing business for a period not to exceed ninety (90) calendar days. There
shall be no more than two (2) going out of business/bankruptcy signs allowed
per business. Such signage shall be allowed only once for any business.
      3.   Business Special Event Signage: Temporary signs may be used to
announce a special business event, such as a holiday sale, for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days. There shall be no more than two (2) business special
event signs allowed per business. Each business shall be limited to two (2)
permits for special event signage every twelve (12) months.
      4.   Business Holiday Sale Signage: A business may advertise a special
sale for the following holidays:
         a.   Martin Luther King Jr. Day.
         b.   Presidents' Day.
         c.   Valentine's Day.
         d.   Easter.
         e.   Mother's Day.
         f.   Father's Day.
         g.   Memorial Day.
         h.   Independence Day.
         i.   Pioneer Day.
         j.   Labor Day.
         k.   Halloween.
         l.   Thanksgiving.
         m.   December holidays and New Year's Day - starting December 1 and
ending January 2.
It shall be a violation of this chapter to display a temporary business holiday
sale sign more than seven (7) days prior to or two (2) days after the holiday
with which it is associated. There shall be no more than two (2) holiday sale
signs allowed per business. All holiday signs shall be clearly marked for the
appropriate holiday. No permit shall be required for a temporary holiday
business sale sign.
   C.   Additional Temporary Sign Regulations:
      1.   Banners: Only one banner shall be allowed per business for each
purpose stated in subsection B of this section. Banners shall be mounted
securely to a building and shall be kept in good repair. The maximum size for a
banner shall be sixty four (64) square feet. (Ord. 2010-12, 6-22-2010)
      2.   Balloons: The allowable square footage of balloons shall be one
square foot of balloon area for every linear foot of occupied frontage at the
main entrance. Businesses with less than fifty (50) linear feet of occupied
frontage may be allowed fifty (50) square feet of balloon. There shall be a
maximum square footage of two hundred fifty (250) square feet of balloon for
any property. Balloons shall be set back one foot (1') for every one foot (1')
in height from any property line. Balloons shall not exceed a maximum of one
hundred feet (100') in height. No tethered or fixed balloon shall be located so
as to create a hazard or disrupt vehicular or pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 2009-
45, 11-24-2009)
      3.   Other Temporary Signs: All other temporary signs shall be limited to
a maximum size of six (6) square feet per sign. (Ord. 2017-13, 7-25-2017)
   D.   Temporary Sign Permits: A single temporary sign permit required by this
section may be permitted for more than one allowed purpose named in subsection
B of this section, provided all necessary information for each purpose is
included in the sign permit application. Any change to the information provided
shall require a new permit. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
   E.   Maintenance: Every temporary sign shall be kept in complete operating
condition. The landscaped area in which any sign is placed shall be kept free
from weeds, garbage, and debris. "Maintenance" includes the replacement or
repair of any temporary sign that is frayed, ripped or has been damaged. (Ord.
2017-13, 7-25-2017)
11-15-10: PERMIT PROCESS:
   A.   Sign Permit Required: No person shall erect, install, or paint any
sign, or change the face of any sign, whether it be temporary or permanent in
nature, without obtaining a sign permit from the City except as provided in
this chapter. This includes new signs, signs to be added to existing buildings
or uses, and existing signs that are to be enlarged, changed, or modified.
   B.   Penalty: New or existing signs installed or altered without a permit
will be required to be removed, or a penalty fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) will be charged at the time application is made for a sign permit
with the City. (Ord. 2016-06, 9-27-2016)
11-15-11: SITE PLAN REVIEW; SIGN DESIGN:
   A.   Site Plan Review: When new buildings or developments are presented for
site plan review, signs proposed for the development shall be reviewed
concurrently by staff. All planned centers and multi-tenant buildings shall
submit a sign theme for approval by the planning commission.
   B.   Sign Design: Applicants for sign permits should give serious
consideration to the following elements when submitting plans for signs:
      1.   Architectural compatibility.
      2.   Color and style.
      3.   Size, scale, proportion (balance).
      4.   Location.
      5.   Landscaping. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-12: REQUIRED PERMIT INFORMATION:
   A.   Monument And Freestanding Signs:
      1.   Plot plan showing relationship of sign to other signs, buildings,
property lines, and setbacks from public rights of way, intersections,
easements and driveways.
      2.   Two (2) accurately dimensioned, scaled drawings showing height,
color, square foot dimensions, landscaping, sign composition, type of
illumination, and how the sign will appear from the street.
      3.   Details of sign construction including electrical plans and
foundation scheme.
      4.   Number of acres and length of linear street frontage of property.
   B.   Wall Signs:
      1.   Two (2) scaled drawings showing square foot dimensions of both the
building and the sign, sign composition, and type of illumination.
      2.   A profile drawing of how the sign will appear from the street/
parking area and on the building.
      3.   Details of sign construction and attachment including electrical
plan.
   C.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Plot plan showing relationship of sign(s) to buildings, property
lines, and setbacks from public rights of way, intersections, easements and
driveways.
      2.   Length of period for display, type of request.
   D.   Additional Information Required:
      1.   Proof of current Clearfield City business license.
      2.   Business address and phone number.
      3.   Address of property owner and phone number.
      4.   General or electrical contractor license, phone and address. (Ord.
2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-13: SAFETY AND LOCATION STANDARDS FOR PERMANENT SIGNS:
   A.   Standards Of Construction:
      1.   Code Compliance: All signs erected in Clearfield City shall comply
with the provisions of the currently adopted building codes and the Clearfield
City sign ordinance effective at the time the application is submitted.
      2.   Licensed Sign Contractor Required: No sign, fixture or device
involving electrical wiring or connections shall be erected or installed in
Clearfield City except by a licensed and bonded contractor.
      3.   Engineering Required: All sign permit applications shall be
engineered to demonstrate conformance with the applicable provisions of the
currently adopted building code; and, where required by the chief building
official or designee, shall be accompanied by a drawing stamped by a structural
engineer licensed by the state of Utah attesting to the adequacy of the
proposed construction of the sign and its supports.
      4.   Durability: All signs must be built of durable and permanent
materials.
      5.   Power Source: Permanent power sources for signs must be concealed
underground away from public view.
   B.   Traffic Safety: No sign or other advertising structure shall be erected
which in any manner may be confused with an official traffic sign or signal, or
which bears words normally used in such signs, i.e., stop, go slow, caution,
danger, warning, etc. No sign or any advertising structure shall be erected
which by reason of its size, location, shape, content, coloring, or manner of
illumination might be confused as a traffic control device. No sign shall have
lighting that impairs the vision of anyone traveling upon a public street or
distracts any driver so as to create a public nuisance. Specifically, no sign
or group of signs may exceed one foot-candle in brightness as measured at the
property line.
   C.   Clear View: All signs shall comply with the clear view regulations
found in section
11-13-10 of this title.
   D.   Specific Clearance And Location Requirements: The following rules apply
for all signs:
      1.   Freestanding signs shall not extend over any pedestrian or vehicular
access area.
      2.   No part of any sign shall interfere with the use of any fire escape,
exit, required stairway, door ventilator, or window.
      3.   No sign shall be erected or maintained which has less horizontal or
vertical clearance from communication lines and energized electrical power
lines than that prescribed by the laws of the state of Utah or its agencies.
      4.   No sign shall be located on publicly owned land or inside street
rights of way, except signs owned and erected by permission of an authorized
public agency or specifically authorized herein.
      5.   High profile (freestanding) and low profile (ground or monument)
signs shall be located at least their height in distance from side property
lines in order to prevent damage to adjacent land in case a sign is toppled by
accident or an act of God.
      6.   Low profile (monument) signs shall be set back at least one foot
(1') from the front sidewalk.
   E.   Maintenance: Every sign shall be kept in complete operating condition.
The landscaped area in which any sign is placed shall be kept free from weeds,
garbage, and debris. "Maintenance" includes the repair of facades where signs
have been removed, the painting, cleaning, repairing of the sign. "Maintenance"
does not include structural alterations, cosmetic or style changes or
enlargements of face changes.
   F.   Landscaping: All freestanding or monument detached signs installed in
Clearfield City shall be incorporated into a landscape design or planter box.
   G.   Pole Cover Required: All on premises freestanding signs shall have the
structural supports covered or concealed with pole covers (pylon covers) at
least thirty six inches (36") wide. The actual structural supports shall not be
exposed, and the covers shall be architecturally and aesthetically designed to
match the building.
   H.   Foundations: Sign foundations and footings shall conform to the
currently adopted building code.
   I.   Pedestal Required: All monument signs shall have at least a one foot
(1') opaque pedestal designed as part of the foundation that conceals any pole
support. The pedestal shall run at least fifty percent (50%) of the horizontal
length of the sign, and there shall not be any exposed space between the
pedestal and the ground or landscaped area. Variations to this requirement may
be approved by the planning and zoning administrator.
   J.   Lighting: The light from the illumination of signs shall be carefully
directed so that the light is not obtrusive or a nuisance to adjacent
properties, particularly in residential areas.
   K.   Building Identification: All buildings shall be identified with a
numbered or lettered street address in addition to optional business
identification. The letters or numbers shall be at least four inches (4") in
height. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-14: MEASUREMENT OF REGULATED SIGN AREA:
   A.   Wall Signs: Sign copy mounted or painted on a background panel or area
distinctly painted, textured or constructed, as a background for the sign copy
shall be measured as that area contained within the outside dimensions of the
background panel or surface. Any illuminated bands or illuminated structures
which contain sign copy, corporate logos, etc., are by definition wall signs in
their entirety and as such may not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the wall
area. However, illuminated bands on canopies covering gasoline pump islands
shall be regulated per this chapter.
For sign copy mounted as individual letters and/or graphics against a wall or
fascia of a building or other structure that has not been painted, textured or
otherwise altered to provide a distinctive background for the sign copy, the
area shall be defined as the area enclosed by the smallest six (6) sided
polygon that will enclose all sign area.
For sign copy on an illuminated sign or illuminated architectural element of a
building, the entire illuminated surface or illuminated architectural element
that contains sign copy shall be counted as sign area.
   B.   Monument Signs: The regulated area of a monument sign shall include all
parts of the sign or structure that contains identification (words or symbols)
and information.
   C.   Multiple Face Signs (Including, But Not Limited To, Freestanding Or
Monument Signs):
      1.   Single Panel: Measure the area of the single face only.
      2.   Double Panel: If the interior angle between the top two (2) faces is
forty five degrees (45°) or less, the area to be measured will be the area of
one face only. If the angle between the two (2) sign faces is greater than
forty five degrees (45°), the sign area to be measured will be the sum of the
areas of the two (2) faces.
      3.   Three Or More: The sign area shall be the sum of the areas of the
three (3) or more faces.
   D.   Freestanding Signs: The regulated area of a freestanding sign shall
include all parts of the sign or structure that contains identification (words
or symbols) and information.
   E.   Nonplaner Signs: For spherical, freeform, sculptural, or other
nonplaner signs, the sign area shall be the sum of the areas of the four (4)
vertical sides of the smallest polyhedron that will encompass the sign
structure. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
11-15-15: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall be
defined as set forth herein:
AWNING SIGN: Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy, or
other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area.
BALLOON: Any inflated object. Inflatable entertainment structures shall also be
considered balloons.
BILLBOARD: A freestanding, off premises sign located on commercial property
adjacent to the Interstate I-15 corridor, designed or intended to direct
attention to a business, product, or service as may be allowed under Utah State
law.
BUS BENCH/BUS SHELTER SIGN: Any sign placed or erected on a bus bench or bus
shelter.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A sign designed to provide direction to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD: A sign or portion of a sign face which uses an
electronic display for advertising or informational purposes.
FLAG BANNER: A vertical, portable temporary sign that contains a harpoon-style
pole or staff driven into the ground for support or is supported by means of an
individual stand and has a maximum height of twelve feet (12'). Feather flags
are limited to the following associated references: tear drop flags, blade
flags, shark fin flags and concave flags.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1fe9b739d65a2412fbdac57f09cec052be919e64/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2120.gif]
FREESTANDING MONUMENT SIGN: A freestanding sign with a height less than six
feet (6').
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign mounted on a freestanding pole or similar support, as
opposed to on a solid base, with a height greater than six feet (6').
HANDBILL: A flier, leaflet, or other loose printed sheet used for advertising
or informational purposes.
MONUMENT SIGN: A permanent sign which is supported by and integrated with a
solid base, as opposed to poles, posts, or other such supports.
MUNICIPAL FIELD SIGNS: Located on the interior of the fencing of the playing
fields at Steed Park and Fisher Park.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: Any sign advertising merchandise, services, or businesses
other than those available on the premises of the sign's location.
ON PREMISES SIGN: Any sign advertising merchandise, services, or businesses
available on the premises of the sign's location.
PLANNED COMMERCIAL OR MANUFACTURING CENTER: A commercial or manufacturing site
where multiple tenants are located, whether in a single building or in multiple
buildings.
POLE SIGN: See definition of freestanding sign.
POLITICAL OR CAMPAIGN SIGN: A sign urging the election or defeat of any
candidate seeking any political office, or urging the passage or defeat of any
ballot measure, but does not mean or include any billboard owned or maintained
by a commercial firm or advertising company.
READER BOARD: A sign or portion of a sign face designed for changeable copy.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign announcing the sale or availability for lease of a
building or lot.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign placed upon the roof of a building or structure.
SIGN: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by which
anything is made known, such as are used to designate a firm, an association, a
corporation, a profession, a business, a service or commodity, a product, or
any type of publicity or propaganda, whether placed on the ground, rocks,
trees, stumps or other natural objects, or on a building, wall, roof, frame,
support, fence or other manmade object, which are visible from any street,
public highway or public road right-of- way. For purpose of this title, the
term "sign" does not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation,
state, city or other political unit, or of a nonprofit organization. It shall
not include any official notice issued by any court or public body, or officer,
or directional, warning or information sign, or structure required or
authorized as a nonprofit organization.
SIGN AREA: See section
11-15-14 of this chapter.
SIGN HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average grade at the base
of the sign to the highest point of said sign.
SUSPENDED SIGN: A sign that hangs from a building or structure without being
connected to a base on the ground.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance, balloon, or advertising
display constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, cardboard, wallboard, plastic or
other light materials with or without frame where the sign is not permanently
affixed to the ground or structure. Spotlights shall also be considered a
temporary sign.
WALL SIGN: A sign attached, affixed, or painted on the exterior wall surface of
a building or structure. Suspended signs in front of and parallel to a wall
surface shall also be considered wall signs.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign that is painted on or temporarily affixed to a window
surface. Window signs shall not be permitted to block clear view of exits or
entrances or to create a safety hazard. Any sign located directly in front of
or behind a window shall be considered a window sign, regardless of the sign
type or manner of construction. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-13,
7-25-2017)
11-15-16: APPEALS:
All appeals to the provisions of this chapter shall be made in accordance with
section
11-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 2009-45, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 15A
FREEWAY ORIENTED SIGNAGE OVERLAY ZONE (S-O)
SECTION:
11-15A-1: Purpose
11-15A-2: Location Designation
11-15A-3: Standards And Requirements
11-15A-4: Permit Process
11-15A-5: Required Permit Application Information
11-15A-6: Safety And Location Standards For Permanent Signs
11-15A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the freeway oriented on premises signage overlay zone is to
promote economic development and business promotion for areas of the city near
Interstate 15 interchanges. These provisions are intended to allow greater
flexibility for on premises signs having the specified freeway visibility.
(Ord. 2013-14, 12-10-2013)
11-15A-2: LOCATION DESIGNATION:
Areas within commercial zoning designations that reside within a seven hundred
foot (700') radius of the center point of Interstate 15 interchanges are
included in the overlay zone. Interchanges affected are 650 North and 700
South. These standards shall only apply in commercially zoned areas within the
required distance from a freeway interchange, and do not provide any additional
signage provisions for residentially zoned properties. (Ord. 2013-14, 12-10-
2013)
11-15A-3: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Maximum Height: Sixty feet (60') in height as measured from freeway
grade. Lawful existing pole signs taller than sixty feet (60') may continue to
exist as legal nonconforming signs. No pole sign may be raised. New signs
within this overlay zone are limited to sixty feet (60') in height as measured
from freeway grade.
      1.   Freeway grade shall be measured from the nearest travel lane as
identified by a perpendicular line extending from the proposed freeway oriented
sign across all lanes of freeway travel. Freeway off-ramps are not to be used
to determine freeway grade.
   B.   Maximum Sign Area: Three hundred (300) square feet per side, six
hundred (600) square feet maximum.
   C.   Location: Ground or pole sign may be located in any required yard but
shall not extend over any lot line or within fifteen feet (15') of any point of
vehicular access from a zoning lot to a public roadway.
   D.   Reader Boards: Reader boards, changeable copy areas, and electronic
message centers shall not exceed thirty three percent (33%) of the total sign
copy area on each side of the sign (maximum reader board, changeable copy area,
and electronic message centers shall not exceed 100 square feet per side).
   E.   Flashing Signs: Signs shall not flash, and must have a dwell time of at
least four (4) seconds.
   F.   Illumination:
      1.   Electronic message centers in all zones shall come equipped with an
automatic dimming, photocell, which automatically adjusts the display's
brightness based on ambient light conditions.
      2.   The brightness level in all zones shall not increase by more than
0.3 foot-candle (or 3.23 lumens per square meter or lux) (over ambient levels)
as measured using a foot-candle meter at a preset distance.
      3.   Brightness measurement process for electronic message centers shall
be as follows:
         a.   At least thirty (30) minutes past sunset, use a foot-candle meter
to record the ambient light reading for the area. This is done while the
electronic message center is off or displaying all black copy;
         b.   The reading should be taken with the meter aimed directly at the
electronic message center at the appropriate preset distance. Measurement
distance criteria for zero to one hundred (100) square foot signs to be
measured one hundred feet (100') from source;
         c.   Turn on the electronic message center to full white copy and take
another reading; and
         d.   If the difference between the readings is 0.3 foot-candle or
less, the brightness is properly adjusted.
      4.   The owners of such signs shall include a signed letter accompanying
their permit application, certifying that they will comply with the prescribed
brightness limitations set by this chapter. (Ord. 2013-14, 12-10-2013; amd.
Ord. 2019-21, 9-10-2019)
11-15A-4: PERMIT PROCESS:
Signage must comply with section
11-15-10 of this title in obtaining permits. (Ord. 2013-14, 12-10-2013)
11-15A-5: REQUIRED PERMIT APPLICATION INFORMATION:
   A.   Monument and freestanding signs:
      1.   Plot plan showing relationship of sign to other signs, buildings,
property lines, and setbacks from public rights of way, intersections,
easements and driveways.
      2.   Two (2) accurately dimensioned, scaled drawings showing height,
color, square foot dimensions, landscaping, sign composition, type of
illumination, and how the sign will appear from the street.
      3.   Details of sign construction including electrical plans and
foundation scheme.
      4.   Number of acres and length of linear street frontage of property.
   B.   Wall signs:
      1.   Two (2) scaled drawings showing square foot dimensions of both the
building and the sign, sign composition, and type of illumination.
      2.   A profile drawing of how the sign will appear from the street/
parking area and on the building.
      3.   Details of sign construction and attachment including electrical
plan.
   C.   Temporary signs:
      1.   Plot plan showing relationship of sign(s) to buildings, property
lines, and setbacks from public rights of way, intersections, easements and
driveways.
      2.   Length of period for display, type of request.
   D.   Additional information required:
      1.   Proof of current Clearfield City business license.
      2.   Business addresses and phone number.
      3.   Address of property owner and phone number.
      4.   General or electrical contractor license, phone and address.
      5.   Signed letter certifying compliance with the brightness limitations
set forth in subsection 11-15A-3F of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-14, 12-10-2013)
11-15A-6: SAFETY AND LOCATION STANDARDS FOR PERMANENT SIGNS:
Signage must comply with section
11-15-13 of this title in all aspects. (Ord. 2013-14, 12-10-2013)
CHAPTER 16
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
11-16-1: Purpose
11-16-2: Business License Required
11-16-3: General Regulations
11-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the residential character of the
city's neighborhoods from encroachment and impact of business and commercial
activities that may take place in individual dwelling units. (Ord. 2009-42, 11-
24-2009)
11-16-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Business License Required; Exemptions:
      1.   A business license shall be required before a dwelling unit in any
zone may be used for business purposes. The business license shall be obtained
in accordance with the provisions of title 4 of this code.
      2.   Exemptions: The following activities shall not require a business
license:
         a.   Childcare for children of relatives;
         b.   Newspaper carriers;
         c.   Yard sales/garage sales; and
         d.   Youth neighborhood seasonal work. (Ord. 2009-42, 11-24-2009)
11-16-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   All home occupations shall comply with the following regulations:
      1.   Employees: Only bona fide residents of the dwelling unit and up to
one nonresident may be employed on the premises.
      2.   Dwelling Character: The home occupation shall not physically change
the dwelling to the extent that it would alter the residential character of the
neighborhood in which it is located. Furthermore, it shall not unreasonably
disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by reason of signage, color,
design, materials, construction, lighting, sound, noises or vibrations.
      3.   Usable Area: The home occupation shall be conducted wholly within
the primary structure on the premises as a permitted use and shall not exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the total finished floor area of the primary
structure.
      4.   Inventory And Supplies: Inventory and supplies for the home
occupation shall not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the usable area.
      5.   Display Of Goods: There shall be no external display of goods, wares
or merchandise upon the premises.
      6.   Advertising: No sign or advertising shall be displayed on the
premises other than signs permitted in residential zones in accordance with
chapter 15 of this title.
      7.   Traffic: The home occupation shall not generate vehicular traffic
significantly in excess of that which is normally generated by a residential
use. The home occupation shall not generate frequent deliveries by large
vehicles.
      8.   Parking: All vehicles of customers or residents must be parked in
authorized portions of the lot upon which the home occupation is located.
      9.   Compliance With Other Codes: There shall be complete conformity with
the currently adopted building code, fire code, plumbing code, mechanical code,
national electrical code and Davis County and state health codes, and to all
state and city ordinances.
      10.   Health And Safety: The home occupation shall not be associated with
noise, dust, odors, noxious fumes, glare or other hazards to safety and health,
which are emitted and may be discernable beyond the premises. The home
occupation shall not create a hazard by using or storing flammable, explosive
or other dangerous materials in quantities that exceed those which may normally
be found in a residence, or by keeping, raising or storing animals which are
capable of inflicting harm or discomfort, or endangering the health and safety
of any person or property.
      11.   Municipal Services: The home occupation shall not create a demand
for municipal or utility service or community facilities in excess of those
usually and customarily provided for residential use.
      12.   Special Fixtures: The home occupation shall not involve the
installation on the exterior of the dwelling of special equipment and/or
fixtures or plumbing or electrical wiring for such special fixtures or
equipment which are not ordinarily or customarily used in a dwelling.
   B.   The use of a garage, carport, and/or accessory structure in a home
occupation shall require a conditional use permit. The conditional use permit
application shall be made in accordance with the provisions of chapter 4 of
this title. (Ord. 2009-42, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 17
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
11-17-1: Purpose
11-17-2: Lots Of Record
11-17-3: Use Of Open Land
11-17-4: Structures And Buildings
11-17-5: Change Of Nonconforming Uses Or Noncomplying Structures
11-17-6: Detrimental Nonconformities Not Allowed
11-17-1: PURPOSE:
Within the zones established by this title or amendments that may later be
adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and
characteristics of uses which were lawful before the ordinance codified herein
was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted
under the terms of the ordinance codified herein or future amendment. It is the
intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until they
are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of
this chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same zone. (Ord. 2009-44, 11-24-2009)
11-17-2: LOTS OF RECORD:
In any zone in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified
herein, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this title.
This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements
for area and width, or both, that are generally applicable in the zone;
provided, that yard dimensions and requirements of the lot shall conform to the
regulations for the zone in which such lot is located. Variance of yard
requirements shall be obtained only in accordance with the regulations set
forth in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2009-44, 11-24-2009)
11-17-3: USE OF OPEN LAND:
A nonconforming use of land lawfully existing on the effective date hereof may
be continued, provided such nonconforming use shall not be expanded or extended
into any other portion of a conforming building or open land and no structures,
additions, alterations or enlargements thereto shall be made thereon, except
those required by law. If said nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned
for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more, any future use of such
land shall conform to the provisions of the zone in which it is located. The
planning commission may extend the time period for an additional twelve (12)
months only if the best use of the land is the existing nonconforming use and
allowing that use will not be detrimental to the surrounding properties. (Ord.
2009-44, 11-24-2009)
11-17-4: STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Use: The nonconforming uses of any structure or building lawfully
existing on the effective date of the ordinance codified herein or amendment
may be continued as provided in this chapter. A nonconforming use may be
extended to include the entire floor area of the existing structure or building
in which it is conducted at the time the use became nonconforming. The
nonconforming use may not be extended into additions or structural alterations
allowed after the time the use became nonconforming. No structure or building
shall be expanded or altered solely for the benefit of expanding a
nonconforming use. If said nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months or more, any future use of such
structures and building shall conform to the provisions of the zone in which
they are located.
   B.   Continued: A noncomplying structure or building in any zone may be
continued as prescribed in this chapter, provided no additions or enlargements
are made thereto and no structural alterations are made therein, except those
prescribed by law. If any such noncomplying structure or building is removed,
every future use of the land on which the building was located shall conform to
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-44, 11-24-2009)
11-17-5: CHANGE OF NONCONFORMING USES OR NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES:
An existing nonconforming use or noncomplying structure may be changed for
another nonconforming use or noncomplying structure which is determined to be
of a more desirable nature upon specific approval of the planning commission.
The request for a change in an authorized nonconforming use or noncomplying
structure shall follow the procedures outlined for conditional uses in chapter
4 of this title. (Ord. 2009-44, 11-24-2009)
11-17-6: DETRIMENTAL NONCONFORMITIES NOT ALLOWED:
No provisions of this chapter shall be construed to allow the continuance of
any nonconformity when, in the opinion of the planning commission, after
consultation with the city attorney and other authorized officials relating to
a specific nonconformity, it is deemed to be detrimental to the health and
welfare of the general public. (Ord. 2009-44, 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 18
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-18-1: Purpose
11-18-2: Applicability
11-18-3: Deviations From Strict Compliance
11-18-4: Commercial Site Design Standards
11-18-5: Commercial Building Design Standards
11-18-6: Industrial Site Design Standards
11-18-7: Industrial Building Design Standards
11-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that all new development within the
city is of exceptional quality and expresses attractive architectural and site
design standards consistent with its particular use and location. The
provisions in this chapter are meant to supplement the objectives of other
chapters in this title which also impose certain design standards or
requirements that are zone specific. (Ord. 2010-04, 1-26-2010)
11-18-2: APPLICABILITY:
The design standards set forth in this chapter shall apply to:
   A.   New Buildings And Uses: All new two-family and multiple-family
dwellings, public facilities, and commercial and industrial buildings and uses
except where:
      1.   A different standard is imposed by the requirements of an applicable
zoning classification; or
      2.   The requirements of this chapter are expressly superseded by another
provision of this title.
   B.   Existing Buildings And Uses: Existing buildings and uses when a change
occurs that involves a standard set forth in this chapter and:
      1.   Requires a building or other permit issued by the city;
      2.   Increases required parking; or
      3.   Increases the amount of outside storage.
   C.   Imposition Of Conditions: In approving a site plan, the planning
commission may impose conditions consistent with the purpose and intent of this
title.
   D.   Standards And Guidelines: This chapter establishes two (2) kinds of
design criteria: design standards and design guidelines. They are intended to
improve the quality and compatibility of development, particularly with regard
to building design and site design. These criteria apply to all nonresidential
projects and are the minimum that will be accepted.
      1.   Design Standards: Design standards are required in addition to other
standards set forth in this title and are indicated by the verb "shall". Design
standards are intended to ensure quality development and permanence in design.
The implementation of these standards ensures that the goals and values of the
community are reflected in each commercial development and contribute
positively to the overall built environment. To better clarify these standards,
a set of design guidelines may accompany and explain each standard.
      2.   Design Guidelines: Design guidelines are utilized in building and
site design to meet the required standards set forth in this chapter. They
indicate additional actions that may be taken to enhance development design and
achieve greater compatibility with adjacent land uses. Guidelines use the verb
"should" (rather than "shall"), signifying that they are desirable objectives.
Application of the guidelines will depend on the nature of the proposed site
plans and the surrounding area, as may be determined by the planning
commission. (Ord. 2010-04, 1-26-2010)
11-18-3: DEVIATIONS FROM STRICT COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Deviations Authorized: In all applicable cases the design standards
contained in this chapter shall be met, except as determined by the planning
commission. Deviations from strict compliance of the standards listed in this
chapter may be authorized if the planning commission makes the findings listed
in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Findings Required: The planning commission may authorize a deviation
from the standards listed in this chapter if it finds the deviation:
      1.   Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
master plan or ordinance;
      2.   Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
and
      3.   Reflects an innovative or unique design that conforms to the
requirements of this chapter to the greatest extent possible and offers
alternatives for addressing the intent of the requirements of this chapter; or
is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which involve
the following:
         a.   Redeveloped buildings;
         b.   Additions to existing buildings;
         c.   Minor structures added to a site; or
         d.   New buildings within a previously approved phased project. (Ord.
2010-04, 1-26-2010)
11-18-4: COMMERCIAL SITE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Building Placement: The following standards shall be carefully
considered as part of the overall development review:
      1.   All buildings shall be located with the main facade facing the
principal street to which it has frontage.
      2.   Buildings located on corner lots shall orient main facades to each
street and give equal treatment to each.
      3.   Buildings located on corner lots should include a prominent
architectural feature of greater height or emphasis at the corner where the two
(2) public streets meet.
      4.   Buildings should be located as close to the front property line
considering site, use, and other constraints or requirements.
      5.   Main entrances shall be oriented toward the street rather than
parking in cases where buildings can be located adjacent to the public right of
way.
   B.   Context: New development shall consider the site design and building
placement of surrounding development in order to create a site which relates to
its surroundings and adds positively to the overall built environment in the
site area. Additionally all developments shall consider natural features, such
as view corridors, water channels, topography, and vegetation, as integral
features to be preserved, enhanced, and which will contribute to the site.
   C.   Miscellaneous Site Considerations: The following considerations shall
be made during initial site planning:
      1.   Service And Loading Bays: Landscaped areas and walls shall be used
to decrease noise levels and separate loading and service bays from customer
parking where possible. Service and loading bays (automotive, service, tire,
etc.) should be oriented away from neighboring residential areas and major
public streets. The general public should be restricted from accessing such
areas when possible.
      2.   Outdoor Refuse And Garbage Collection Containers: Outdoor refuse and
garbage collection containers shall be fully screened from view using the same
materials as the building or approved masonry fencing. Enclosures shall also be
surrounded by landscaping to further soften their visual impact. The general
public shall be restricted from accessing such areas.
      3.   Generators; Large Auxiliary Equipment: Generators and other large
auxiliary equipment shall be placed at locations where they will be least
intrusive in terms of noise, appearance, and odors, particularly for occupants
of neighboring properties. Site plans should also consider public utilities
equipment placement and communicate early in the planning process with the
various public utility providers about potential utility equipment placement on
the site.
         a.   Equipment should be kept low to the ground.
         b.   Exhaust systems shall not protrude above the equipment.
         c.   Walls, landscaping, and other screening shall be used.
      4.   Open Spaces: The locations of all buildings and structures shall
allow and provide an interconnected system of open space allowing open space
and landscaping areas to connect with similar open spaces and landscaping areas
existing, or planned to be located, on adjacent properties.
      5.   Chainlink Fencing: Chainlink fencing shall not be permitted adjacent
to a public right of way or in a required front yard.
      6.   Utilities: All utility distribution facilities, including
electrical, telecommunications, and natural gas services shall be placed
underground. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals and other
necessary appurtenances to the underground facilities may be placed aboveground
where necessary.
   D.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be used as a tool to enhance and
beautify the site.
      1.   Outdoor amenities shall be provided for every development on a site
with a combined building floor area totaling twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet or greater. Outdoor amenities are designed for pedestrians and create
plazas or other focal points that are inviting to site patrons. These amenities
shall be located near entrances or other focal points within the development
where they will be convenient and comfortable for users. Restaurants and other
similar uses are encouraged to provide additional outdoor seating areas for
their patrons, but shall not include these areas as an outdoor amenity if
restricted to only paying customers. Outdoor amenities may include the
following:
         a.   Seating areas including patios, decks, porches, benches, tables,
and pergolas;
         b.   Water features;
         c.   Garden areas designed for active use.
      2.   Landscaping shall be integrated into the design, placement, and
enhancement of pedestrian plazas, sitting areas, walkways, flagpoles, and
signs. This may be accomplished by giving special attention to any plantings
immediately adjacent to pedestrian areas and walkways. This landscaping shall
not overgrow or impede pedestrian areas, but rather allow for detail and
aesthetics more amenable to pedestrians.
      3.   Drought resistant shrubs and trees are required in conjunction with
efficient low water use smart automatic irrigation systems.
      4.   All proposed plants and landscape materials shall be consistent with
(but not uniform) and of a similar scale with existing natural landscape,
neighboring landscape, and adjacent streetscape areas where appropriate.
Drought tolerant plant materials are required. Landscaping improvements may
also include berming, contouring, rocks, and boulders.
      5.   The size and spacing of landscape elements shall be consistent and
establish a coordinated relationship to any existing or proposed streetscape
plantings. The size and spacing of landscape elements shall also be of
appropriate scale and character to all proposed site structures and features.
   E.   Lighting: All exterior lighting shall provide for the illumination of
buildings and grounds for safety purposes, but in an aesthetic manner. All
exterior lighting shall be reduced to the minimum levels necessary for safety
and security purposes. The use of motion sensors and timers is encouraged.
      1.   Lighting schemes should include coordinating parking, wall, and
pedestrian scaled fixtures which complement building architecture and site
features.
      2.   Sensitively placed low light landscape lighting that highlights a
site's desirable features is encouraged.
      3.   All off street parking area lighting shall be designed and installed
to meet the following minimum requirements:
         a.   All lighting fixtures and poles shall be a decorative nature and
painted a color as approved with site plan application.
         b.   The height of all lighting poles shall not exceed twenty feet
(20'), measured to the top of the pole or luminary.
         c.   All light fixtures, including security lighting, shall be fully
hooded or shielded and aimed and so that all direct illumination shall be
confined to the property boundaries of the source. All motion sensing light
fixtures shall be fully shielded and adjusted, according to the manufacturer's
specifications, to turn off when detected motion ceases.
      4.   The following types of lighting shall be prohibited:
         a.   Exposed bulb fixtures;
         b.   Directional floodlights; and
         c.   Excessive or intense lighting of any kind.
      5.   Indoor lighting shall not be provided or constructed to provide
lighting for any outdoor areas.
   F.   Parking And Circulation: The following measures shall be taken to
ensure that needed parking areas are designed in such a way as to have a
minimal impact on the built environment as possible:
      1.   Developments which generate significant increases in traffic should
include an analysis of the proposed development's impact on the current and
future transportation system, and methods to control such traffic.
      2.   Major internal circulation roadways that provide access from the
public right of way or between buildings on the same site shall be separated
from parking areas using curb and gutter and a combination of any of the
following methods:
         a.   Landscaping;
         b.   Pedestrian walkways; or
         c.   Lighting.
      3.   Pedestrian walkways shall be a minimum of five feet (5') wide.
      4.   Cross access for automobiles and pedestrians to future and existing
commercial developments shall be provided during initial site planning and
construction, and be maintained in perpetuity.
      5.   The location and number of access points to the site, the interior
circulation pattern, and the separation between pedestrians and vehicles shall
be designed to maximize safety and convenience, and should be harmonious with
proposed and neighboring buildings.
   G.   Pedestrian Considerations: Site layout and design shall consider with
equal weight the needs of pedestrians and automobiles. Measures shall be taken
to ensure adequate access and safety for pedestrians on the site.
      1.   Pedestrian access from the public right of way through the site to
main entrances shall be provided. These walkways shall be constructed of
different materials than the roadway or parking area, and provide for clearly
defined crossings where there are points of conflict with automobiles.
      2.   Similar pedestrian access from public transit stations and stops
into the site and to each building entrance shall be provided.
      3.   Differing roadway materials within parking lots shall be used
directly in front of entrances to slow motorists and create a safer environment
for pedestrians.
      4.   Pedestrian drop off locations shall be convenient and safe for
pedestrians.
      5.   Benches, pedestrian scaled lighting, bike racks, and other
pedestrian amenities shall be placed appropriately throughout the site.
   H.   Security: Security of the site and CPTED (crime prevention through
environmental design) principles should be considered in any site design. Many
of the goals of CPTED are supported by and accomplished through following the
standards and guidelines already enumerated in this chapter. In addition to
these standards and guidelines, other measures should be considered with the
following four (4) overlapping CPTED principles in mind:
      1.   Territoriality is a design concept that plainly demarcates private
space from semipublic and public areas. Clear territoriality in the design of a
site also creates a sense of ownership wherein people will be more likely to
defend and care for such spaces. Following this principle ultimately creates an
environment where intruders stand out and are more easily identified.
         a.   Symbolic barriers such as landscaping or changes in paving
materials or patterns can be effective in creating defined public spaces.
         b.   Spaces which are designed for active use such as plazas, outdoor
seating and eating areas, benches, fountains, and playgrounds add to the sense
of ownership.
      2.   Natural surveillance is a design concept directed primarily at
keeping intruders under observation. Provision of natural surveillance helps
create environments where there is sufficient opportunity for people engaged in
their normal behavior to observe the space around them. Areas can be designed
so they are more easily observed through:
         a.   Landscape designs and follow up maintenance that allows for
clear, unobstructed views of accessible areas;
         b.   Walkways which are visible, well lit, and overlooked by windows
from nearby buildings;
         c.   Mixed uses that engage a site at all hours;
         d.   Use of unglazed or tinted windows and doors; and
         e.   Lighting of alcoves, stairwells, and other areas which may
otherwise provide concealment.
      3.   Access control is a design concept directed primarily at decreasing
criminal accessibility. Provision of natural access control limits access and
increases natural surveillance to restrict criminal intrusion, especially into
areas where they will not be easily observed through:
         a.   Clearly marking entrances;
         b.   Restricting access to screened areas such as garbage receptacles,
delivery areas, and outdoor storage areas; and
         c.   Eliminating design elements which allow access to roofs and upper
levels.
      4.   Proper maintenance of landscaping, lighting treatments, and other
features can facilitate the principles of CPTED.
   I.   Signs: The primary purpose of signs is to clearly identify businesses.
Signs shall be integrated into the overall design of a commercial development
including materials, and shall add to the quality of the built environment
without contributing to visual clutter. While the approval of signs requires a
separate review and approval process, their placement should be planned for
during initial site planning and provide for required landscaping, lighting,
and other related considerations.
   J.   Noise Impact: Site design shall include provisions and strategies for
limiting noise, particularly to adjacent property. The occupants of a proposed
development should be protected from noise from both outside and within the
site through screening, setbacks, and building materials. Noise generating
equipment shall be located and buffered to minimize potential on site and off
site impacts.
   K.   Screening Walls, Fences, And Other Visual Barriers: Walls, fences, and
barriers that create a continuous surface greater than twenty feet (20') in
length shall be softened visually with acceptable landscaping. All walls and
fences shall conform to the major architectural style of the site plan. (Ord.
2010-04, 1-26-2010; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 3-10-2020; Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-18-5: COMMERCIAL BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Context: All building designs shall consider surrounding or nearby
buildings and developments and implement design solutions which are sensitive
to those nearby buildings and developments. The review of this requirement
shall be based on the following:
      1.   The buildings contribute positively to the overall character of the
city and the neighborhood in which it is located;
      2.   The buildings reflect the character of surrounding development
through the use of similar positive and desirable features;
      3.   The buildings demonstrate imaginative design; and
      4.   Where proposed building designs closely copy or mirror surrounding
development, the buildings vary colors, materials, or architectural elements.
   B.   Entrances: All building entrances shall be clearly articulated to
indicate a transition from the exterior to the interior of the building. Every
main entrance shall have a special emphasis when compared to the other portions
of the building. This shall be accomplished through the use of at least three
(3) of the following near entrances:
      1.   A prominent architectural feature that is unique to the overall
building design;
      2.   Complementary yet differing building materials or colors;
      3.   Increased use of windows or glass;
      4.   Pedestrian amenities that may include patios, porches, special
paving treatments, seating areas, or awnings; or
      5.   Increased landscaping.
   C.   Facade Articulation: Buildings designed with completely flat facades
and monotone color schemes shall not be permitted. All buildings shall
demonstrate articulation of all facades.
      1.   Horizontal or vertical facade variations shall occur at least every
thirty feet (30') or along a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal
length of buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater. This shall
be accomplished by using methods such as:
         a.   Variation in the surface plane that may include pop outs, bays,
and recesses;
         b.   Variation in the surface pattern such as arches, banding, and
paneling; or
         c.   Distinguished treatment of windows, doors, and eaves that may
include molding or framing.
      2.   Buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in total
length shall have at least one significant facade variation from the primary
wall plane whose depth is at least five percent (5%) of the total facade length
and whose width is at least twenty percent (20%) of the total facade length.
There shall be no uninterrupted facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in
length.
   D.   Height And Roofline: All buildings shall demonstrate an appropriate
roof height that is compatible with the building's location, and vary rooflines
in order to add architectural interest and avoid the appearance or sense of
monotonous roofline expanses. All buildings shall:
      1.   Demonstrate appropriate roof height for the location based on zoning
regulations and the height of buildings within the immediate area;
      2.   Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long,
continuous, and undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater;
      3.   Use similar materials and colors on the back of false fronts,
parapets, cornices, or other parts of the building which extend beyond the
roofline or main building so that the building appears cohesive from all views;
and
      4.   Provide for screening of mechanical equipment and systems that need
to be mounted on the roof. Any minimal portion of these pieces of equipment
that may not be fully shielded shall be painted a color which is compatible
with the roofing or parapet materials.
   E.   Massing: Buildings shall have a composition which clearly relates to
surrounding buildings, as well as to the overall scale of the built environment
in nearby residential or commercial neighborhoods. Proper massing reduces the
impact of the massive bulk created by large buildings that may not otherwise
relate in scale to surrounding development. Vertical articulation, horizontal
articulation, and multi-planed roof and awning designs should be used to
mitigate the impact that may occur on surrounding development and the overall
landscape.
   F.   Materials: High quality, long lasting materials shall be required for
all buildings in order to contribute to the aesthetics of the community over
the long term. Permanence in design and construction will add to the overall
value and sustainability of the community.
      1.   A minimum of three (3) colors per elevation shall be required.
      2.   Color utilization should be sensitive to existing development within
the vicinity and the natural landscape in which the project is situated.
   G.   Pedestrian Considerations: All buildings shall consider pedestrians as
an integral part of the design. Additionally, buildings that contain more than
one story or that are taller than twenty feet (20') in height shall provide a
clearly articulated and more detailed base that relates to pedestrians.
   H.   Windows: The majority of windows shall relate to the scale of the
person.
      1.   Windows should be at eye level when possible and provide for
transparency into the building.
      2.   Where buildings are adjacent to pedestrian walkways, transparent
windows shall be used to relate the scale of the building and the building's
interior to pedestrians. Where transparent windows may not be desirable, tinted
windows, false windows, or glass block shall be used.
      3.   Window awnings are an effective way to add detail and variation to a
building, emphasize pedestrian scale windows, and create an exciting and
inviting environment. When placing awnings:
         a.   Quality materials shall be used which are durable and are able to
withstand extremes in the weather;
         b.   Colors should be complementary to the color of the building on
which the awning is located; and
         c.   Styles should be compatible with the architectural features and
overall architecture of the building on which the awning is located.
   I.   Architectural Details: Surface details, ornaments, and other building
elements that enrich the character of a building shall be provided. Attention
to detail, including all building and architectural design elements shall be
required. The following architectural details are desirable and encouraged:
      1.   Stonework;
      2.   Exposed beams and columns;
      3.   Cornices, moldings, bands, pop outs, decorative vents, cast or
sculpted features;
      4.   Covered walkways, breezeways, bays, and balconies;
      5.   Courtyards and patios;
      6.   Wide roof overhangs; and
      7.   Accessories such as art features, benches, pots, lamps, artwork, and
sculptures.
   J.   Building Additions: All additions to existing buildings shall
incorporate the predominant architectural features, materials, and colors of
the existing building. (Ord. 2010-04, 1-26-2010; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 3-10-2020;
Ord. 2024-17, 10-18-2024)
11-18-6: INDUSTRIAL SITE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Context: New development shall consider the site design and building
placement of surrounding development in order to create a site which relates to
its surroundings and adds positively to the overall built environment in the
site area. Additionally all developments shall consider natural features, such
as view corridors, water channels, topography, and vegetation, as integral
features to be preserved, enhanced, and which will contribute to the site.
   B.   Building Placement: All building(s) shall be designed to locate the
main front facade facing the principal street to which it has frontage or
oriented towards the primary access for vehicular and pedestrian access for the
property.
   C.   Vehicular Circulation:
      1.   Developments which generate significant increases in traffic shall
include an analysis of the proposed development's impact on the current and
future transportation system, and methods to control such traffic.
      2.   Primary entry drives for automobiles, especially visitors, shall be
enhanced with: ornamental landscaping, low-level decorative walls, monument-
type signs, or decorative paving to emphasize site access locations.
      3.   Uses where trucks are anticipated, such as distribution centers,
shall be planned to accommodate safety and maximize visibility for both truck
maneuvering and other traffic.
      4.   The design and location of loading areas and dock facilities shall
be designed to minimize the interaction between trucks and other automobiles.
Access to loading and delivery areas should be separated from parking areas.
      5.   The design and location of loading facilities shall take into
consideration the specific dimensions required for the maneuvering of large
trucks and trailers into and out of loading position at docks or in stalls and
driveways.
      6.   The location and number of access points to the site, the interior
circulation pattern, and the separation between pedestrians and vehicles shall
be designed to maximize safety and convenience, and should be harmonious with
proposed and neighboring buildings.
      7.   Major internal circulation roadways that provide access from the
public right-of-way or between buildings on the same site shall be separated
from parking areas using curb and gutter and a combination of any of the
following methods:
         a.   Landscaping;
         b.   Pedestrian walkways; or
         c.   Lighting.
   D.   Parking Location:
      1.   Parking lots should not be the dominant visual element at the front
of the site. Expansive paved areas located between the street and the building
are prohibited.
      2.   Large parking areas (over one hundred (100) spaces) shall be divided
into smaller multiple lots and provided with trees located throughout the
parking area to reduce the visual impact
      3.   Landscaping of parking areas shall comply with all other applicable
standards of this title.
      4.   Visitor parking spaces should be located to produce the shortest
route of travel to a building entrance.
      5.   Convenient public access and short-term visitor parking shall be
provided at the main entrance of the building
   E.   Pedestrian Considerations: Site layout and design shall consider with
equal weight the needs of pedestrians and automobiles. Measures shall be taken
to ensure adequate access and safety for pedestrians on the site.
      1.   Pedestrian access from the public right-of-way through the site to
main entrances shall be provided. These walkways shall be constructed of
different materials than the roadway or parking area, and provide for clearly
defined crossings where there are points of conflict with automobiles.
      2.   Pedestrian walkways shall be a minimum of five feet (5') wide.
      3.   Similar pedestrian access from public transit stations and stops
into the site and to main building entrance shall be provided.
      4.   Differing roadway materials within parking lots shall be used
directly in front of entrances to slow motorists and create a safer environment
for pedestrians.
      5.   Parking lot pedestrian walkways shall provide safe, convenient, and
well-defined access between parking areas and the public sidewalk and the main
public access to the building.
      6.   Parking lot pedestrian circulation shall be clearly delineated and
separate from vehicle circulation. The use of landscaping, walkways, or
decorative paving to delineate pedestrian circulation must be used.
   F.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be used as a tool to enhance and
beautify the site.
      1.   Landscape design should follow an overall concept and link various
site components together.
      2.   Landscaped areas should incorporate a three (3) tiered planting
system:
         a.   Grasses, ground covers, or flowers;
         b.   Shrubs or vines; and
         c.   Trees.
      3.   The landscape design shall use a variety of trees, especially in
parking areas and pedestrian open space areas.
      4.   More intense landscaping and special landscape features shall be
provided at major focal points, such as entries and pedestrian gathering areas.
      5.   The front, public portions of buildings shall be separated from
parking areas by landscaping and pedestrian walkways.
      6.   Drought resistant shrubs and trees are required in conjunction with
efficient low water use smart automatic irrigation systems.
      7.   All proposed plants and landscape materials shall be consistent with
(but not uniform) and of a similar scale with existing natural landscape,
neighboring landscape, and adjacent streetscape areas where appropriate.
Landscaping improvements may also include berming, contouring, rocks, and
boulders.
      8.   Landscaping shall be integrated into the design, placement, and
enhancement of pedestrian plazas, sitting areas, walkways, flagpoles, and
signs. This may be accomplished by giving special attention to any plantings
immediately adjacent to pedestrian areas and walkways. This landscaping shall
not overgrow or impede pedestrian areas, but rather allow for detail and
aesthetics more amenable to pedestrians.
      9.   Outdoor amenities shall be provided for every development on a site
with a combined building floor area totaling twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet or greater. Outdoor amenities are designed for employees and create plazas
or other focal points that are inviting to site patrons. These amenities shall
be located near entrances or other focal points within the development where
they will be convenient and comfortable for users. Outdoor amenities may
include the following:
         a.   Seating areas including patios, decks, porches, benches, tables,
and pergolas;
         b.   Water features;
         c.   Garden areas designed for active use.
   G.   Site Lighting: All exterior lighting shall provide for the illumination
of buildings and grounds for safety purposes, but in an aesthetic manner. All
exterior lighting shall be reduced to the minimum levels necessary for safety
and security purposes. The use of motion sensors and timers is encouraged.
      1.   Lighting schemes should include coordinating parking, wall, and
pedestrian scaled fixtures which complement building architecture and site
features.
      2.   Sensitively placed low light landscape lighting that highlights a
site's desirable features is encouraged and should be provided where
appropriate.
      3.   All off-street parking area lighting shall be designed and installed
to meet the following minimum requirements:
         a.   The height of all lighting poles shall not exceed twenty feet
(20'), measured to the top of the pole or luminary.
         b.   All light fixtures, including security lighting, shall be fully
hooded or shielded and aimed so that all direct illumination shall be confined
to the property boundaries of the source. All motion sensing light fixtures
shall be fully shielded and adjusted, according to the manufacturer's
specifications, to turn off when detected motion ceases.
      4.   The following types of lighting shall be prohibited:
         a.   Exposed bulb fixtures;
         b.   Directional floodlights; and
         c.   Excessive or intense lighting of any kind.
   H.   Security: Security of the site and CPTED (crime prevention through
environmental design) principles should be considered in any site design. Many
of the goals of CPTED are supported by and accomplished through following the
standards and guidelines already enumerated in this chapter. In addition to
these standards and guidelines, other measures should be considered with the
following four (4) overlapping CPTED principles in mind:
      1.   Territoriality is a design concept that plainly demarcates private
space from semi-public and public areas. Clear territoriality in the design of
a site also creates a sense of ownership wherein people will be more likely to
defend and care for such spaces. Following this principle ultimately creates an
environment where intruders stand out and are more easily identified.
         a.   Symbolic barriers such as landscaping or changes in paving
materials or patterns can be effective in creating defined public spaces.
         b.   Spaces which are designed for active use such as plazas, outdoor
seating and eating areas, benches, fountains, and playgrounds add to the sense
of ownership.
      2.   Natural surveillance is a design concept directed primarily at
keeping intruders under observation. Provision of natural surveillance helps
create environments where there is sufficient opportunity for people engaged in
their normal behavior to observe the space around them. Areas can be designed
so they are more easily observed through:
         a.   Landscape designs and follow up maintenance that allows for
clear, unobstructed views of accessible areas;
         b.   Walkways which are visible, well lit, and overlooked by windows
from nearby buildings;
         c.   Mixed uses that engage a site at all hours;
         d.   Use of unglazed or tinted windows and doors; and
         e.   Lighting of alcoves, stairwells, and other areas which may
otherwise provide concealment.
      3.   Access control is a design concept directed primarily at decreasing
criminal accessibility. Provision of natural access control limits access and
increases natural surveillance to restrict criminal intrusion, especially into
areas where they will not be easily observed through:
         a.   Clearly marking entrances;
         b.   Restricting access to screened areas such as garbage receptacles,
delivery areas, and outdoor storage areas; and
         c.   Eliminating design elements which allow access to roofs and upper
levels.
      4.   Proper maintenance of landscaping, lighting treatments, and other
features can facilitate the principles of CPTED.
   I.   Miscellaneous Site Considerations: The following considerations shall
be made during initial site planning:
      1.   Outdoor Refuse And Garbage Collection Containers: Outdoor refuse and
garbage collection containers shall be screened from view of a public right-of-
way using the same materials as the building or approved masonry fencing.
Additionally, enclosures should be surrounded by landscaping to further soften
their visual impact. The general public shall be restricted from accessing such
areas.
      2.   Generators; Large Auxiliary Equipment: Generators and other large
auxiliary equipment shall be placed at locations where they will be least
intrusive in terms of noise, appearance, and odors, particularly for occupants
of neighboring properties. Site plans should also consider public utilities
equipment placement and communicate early in the planning process with the
various public utility providers about potential utility equipment placement on
the site.
         a.   Equipment should be kept low to the ground.
         b.   Exhaust systems shall not protrude above the equipment.
         c.   Walls, landscaping, and other screening shall be used to screen
equipment.
      3.   Chainlink Fencing: Chainlink fencing shall not be permitted adjacent
to a public right-of-way, in a required front yard, or in an area that is
visible from a public right-of-way.
      4.   Utilities: All utility distribution facilities, including
electrical, telecommunications, and natural gas services shall be placed
underground. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals and other
necessary appurtenances to the underground facilities may be placed above-
ground where necessary.
      5.   Noise Impact: Site design shall include provisions and strategies
for limiting noise, particularly to adjacent property. The occupants of a
proposed development should be protected from noise from both outside and
within the site through screening, setbacks, and building materials. Noise
generating equipment shall be located and buffered to minimize potential on
site and off-site impacts.
      6.   Screening Walls, Fences, And Other Visual Barriers: Walls, fences,
and barriers that create a continuous surface greater than twenty feet (20') in
length shall be softened visually with acceptable landscaping. All walls and
fences shall conform to the major architectural style of the site plan. (Ord.
2020-09, 3-10-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-18-7: INDUSTRIAL BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Context: All building designs shall consider surrounding or nearby
buildings and developments and implement design solutions which are sensitive
to those nearby buildings and developments.
   B.   Architectural Form and Detail:
      1.   If adjacent to a residential zoning district, an additional building
setback of ten feet (10') shall be provided adjacent to the residential use to
reduce the visual impact of large-scale industrial buildings. The additional
ten feet (10') shall be landscaped with trees to provide buffering and shall
not include parking, vehicular access, or storage areas for equipment or
mechanical systems. Those uses may exist beyond the ten foot (10') buffer.
      2.   The mass and scale of large, box-like industrial buildings shall be
reduced through the incorporation of varying building heights, setbacks, and or
building projections along the front or primary street sides of building
facades.
      3.   Facades of large buildings visible from a street hall include:
         a.   Architectural features such as reveals;
         b.   Windows and openings; and
         c.   Changes in color and either texture or material to add interest
to the building elevation and reduce its visual mass.
      4.   Primary building entries shall be readily identifiable and well
defined through the use of projections, recesses, columns, roof structures, or
other design elements. The primary building entries shall be clearly
articulated to indicate a transition from the exterior to the interior of the
building. Every main entrance shall have a special emphasis when compared to
the other portions of the building. This shall be accomplished through the use
of at least three (3) of the following near entrances:
         a.   A prominent architectural feature that is unique to the overall
building design;
         b.   Complementary yet differing building materials or colors;
         c.   Increased use of windows or glass;
         d.   Pedestrian amenities that may include patios, porches, special
paving treatments, seating areas, or awnings; or
         e.   Increased landscaping.
   C.   Color And Materials:
      1.   A comprehensive material and color scheme shall be developed for
each site. Material and color variations in multi-building complexes must be
complementary and compatible among buildings.
      2.   A minimum of three (3) colors per elevation shall be required.
      3.   Color utilization should be sensitive to existing development within
the vicinity and the natural landscape in which the project is situated.
      4.   Materials that contribute to the aesthetics of the community over
the long term shall be required for all buildings. Permanence in design and
construction will add to the overall value and sustainability of the community.
      5.   Primary Materials: Each exterior wall facade shall include two (2)
of the following primary materials: brick, tilt-up concrete, architectural
block, stone, or glass. Unfinished gray concrete block is not permitted. The
use of non-insulated metal siding exclusively on any wall is prohibited. All
finish material shall be durable to the effects of weather and soiling.
      6.   Expanses of primary materials, or other uniform material shall be
broken up with pop outs, recesses, awnings, staggered facades, metal
structures, glass, change in material or texture, or the addition of other
designed three (3) dimensional architectural features, every one hundred feet
(100').
      7.   The ends or corners of buildings shall be articulated with at least
two (2) prominent architectural feature such as a change in primary material
(i.e. change from tilt-up concrete panel to brick), increased roof projection
of parapet, increased transparency; or
      8.   Bright, contrasting colors should be used for small areas of
building and for accents only.
      9.   Design and colors of wall signs should be compatible with the main
buildings on the site.
      10.   Materials, design, and colors of monument signs shall be compatible
with the main buildings on the site.
   D.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   The design of accessory buildings (e.g., security kiosks,
maintenance buildings, and outdoor equipment enclosures) shall be incorporated
into and be compatible with the overall design of the project and the main
buildings on the site.
      2.   Temporary buildings shall not to be located where they will be
visible from adjoining public streets.
      3.   Modular buildings shall be skirted with material and color that is
compatible with the modular unit and the main buildings on the site. All
temporary and modular structures shall comply with all other applicable
standards of this title for use and duration of use.
   E.   Building Additions:
      1.   All additions to existing buildings shall incorporate the
predominant architectural features, materials, and colors of the existing
building. (Ord. 2020-09, 3-10-2020; amd. Ord. 2024-17, 10-18-2024)
CHAPTER 19
INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
SECTION:
11-19-1: Purpose And Intent
11-19-2: Definition Of Accessory Dwelling Unit
11-19-3: Owner Occupied
11-19-4: Dwelling Unit Occupancy
11-19-5: Zones
11-19-6: Number Of Accessory Dwelling Units
11-19-7: Address
11-19-8: Separate Living Areas
11-19-9: Fire, Building, And Health Codes
11-19-10: Utility Meters
11-19-11: Not Intended For Sale
11-19-12: Accessory Dwelling Unit Registration/Business License
11-19-13: Home Occupation Businesses
11-19-14: Development Standards
11-19-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit (IADU) ordinance is established to provide
areas for the encouragement and promotion of an environment for family life by
providing for the establishment of an accessory unit in conjunction with
single-family detached dwellings on individual lots. This ordinance is hereby
established to promote the use of accessory units; to provide flexibility for
the changes in household size associated with life cycle; to offer financial
security for home buyers; and to offer security against problems associated
with frailty in old age. These provisions are also intended to provide for
affordable housing with reasonable limitations to minimize the impact on
neighboring properties and neighborhoods, and to promote the health, safety,
and welfare of the property owners and residents of accessory dwelling units.
(Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-2: DEFINITION OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT:
A subordinate dwelling, which has its own kitchen, living/sleeping area, and
full bathroom, including, sink, toilet shower/bath which is within or attached
to a single-family residential building. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-3: OWNER OCCUPIED:
For the purpose of this section, the term “owner occupied” shall be defined as
fulltime residency within the home by the bona fide property owner(s) as shown
on the Davis County tax assessment rolls. No accessory dwelling units shall be
created, established, or occupied in a single-family dwelling unless the owner
of the property lives on the property within either the principal dwelling or
accessory dwelling unit. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-4: DWELLING UNIT OCCUPANCY:
The occupants of an accessory dwelling unit shall be limited by one of the
following family categories:
   A.   One person living alone; or
   B.   Two (2) related or unrelated adults and their children.
   C.   Any of the above categories plus a temporary guest. A “temporary guest”
is defined as a person who stays with a family for a period of less than thirty
(30) days within any rolling one-year period and does not utilize the dwelling
as a legal address for any purpose. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-5: ZONES:
An accessory dwelling which meets ordinance requirements may be allowed in a
single- family dwelling unit within all single-family zones on lots greater
than 6,000 square feet. No accessory dwelling unit may be allowed in any multi-
family dwelling or zone. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-6: NUMBER OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
A maximum of one accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed in each owner-
occupied single-family dwelling. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-7: ADDRESS:
The principal dwelling unit and the accessory dwelling unit shall have the same
address number but shall refer to the accessory dwelling unit as unit B.
Addresses must be located in a visible location on the street frontage side of
the home. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-8: SEPARATE LIVING AREAS:
An accessory dwelling unit must provide living areas for eating, sleeping and
full bathroom, including, sink, toilet shower/bath, separate from the principal
dwelling unit. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-9: FIRE, BUILDING, AND HEALTH CODES:
An IADU shall comply with all building construction and fire codes in effect at
the time the IADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled, including
the obtaining of required building and other permits. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-10: UTILITY METERS:
A single-family dwelling with an accessory dwelling shall have one (1) meter
for each water, gas, and electricity utility service, and each meter shall be
in the property owner’s name. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-11: NOT INTENDED FOR SALE:
Accessory dwelling units shall not be sold separately nor subdivided from the
primary dwelling unit or lot. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-12: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT REGISTRATION / BUSINESS LICENSE:
Any person owning an existing accessory dwelling unit that has not previously
been permitted by the city, or any person constructing or causing the
construction of a residence that has an accessory dwelling unit, or any person
remodeling or causing the remodeling of a residence for an accessory dwelling
unit, shall register the accessory dwelling unit with the Community Development
Department. If the accessory dwelling unit is a rental unit a business license
is also required. This shall be in addition to a building permit for the work
to be performed. In order to meet the requirements of the registration, the
applicant shall:
   A.   Submit a fee as identified in the Consolidated Fee Schedule with a
completed registration form/application including a site plan that shows
property lines and dimensions, the location of existing buildings and building
entrances, dimensions from buildings or additions to property lines, the
location of parking stalls, and utility meter.
   B.   Include detailed floor plans with labels on rooms indicating uses or
proposed uses.
   C.   Pay building permit fees, if applicable, for the remodeling of an
existing dwelling, in accordance with the established fees and charges.
   D.   Make all corrections identified as necessary to comply with building
code requirements, as identified by the chief building official or his designee
and provide photos of the life safety items required by building code,
including carbon monoxide detectors, smoke detectors, and earthquake strapping
on water heaters.
   E.   Failure To Complete and Obtain a Land Use Permit: If the property owner
does not obtain a land use permit as outlined this chapter, the IADU shall not
be considered legal or approved. Failure to obtain a land use permit for an
existing dwelling unit within two (2) years of this section may result in a
citation for a code violation as governed by Title 1-16. “Code Enforcement,” of
this Code.
   F.   Failure to complete registration of IADU: If the property owner does
not complete the registration as outlined above, the accessory dwelling unit
shall not be considered legal or approved. Failure to complete the registration
of an existing accessory dwelling unit may result in a fine, which may result
in a lien on the property. After the fine is assessed, the building official or
his designee shall determine an appropriate deadline for compliance. An
additional fine may be assessed for each deadline that is not met. (Ord. 2021-
14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-13: HOME OCCUPATION BUSINESSES:
Home occupation businesses which may be approved in an accessory dwelling unit
shall be restricted to a home office use which creates no customer traffic. No
home occupation business shall be established within an accessory dwelling unit
without the express written permission of the property owner, and approval from
the City Business license official. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
11-19-14: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Size: The total area of the IADU shall be fifty percent (50%) or less
of the total square footage of the primary residence and be located within the
footprint of the home.
   B.   Appearance: The architectural design, color pallet, and materials for
an IADU shall be similar to the primary dwelling unit.
   C.   Location: IADUs shall meet the same setbacks as required for the
primary residence in the zone.
      1.   IADUs and the primary dwelling must be on the same parcel and may
not be subdivided.
      2.   Accessory dwelling units may be allowed as long as the zoning
requirements for properties in a single-family neighborhood are met. The IADU
shall not be within the building front, rear, or side yard setbacks for the
zoning district in which the dwelling lot is located. In addition, the
following standards apply:
      3.   Attached accessory dwelling units are allowed:
         a.    Over an attached garage, provided the accessory unit does not
otherwise disrupt required covered parking.
         b.    Inside the primary residential dwelling through an internal
conversion of the housing unit as an addition or in the basement.
         c.    By an addition to the house, containing an internal connection
between dwelling units provided that the addition will not alter the single-
family character of the building.
   D.   Building Entrances: An accessory dwelling unit shall have a separate
entrance located on any side or rear of the single-family home or at the front
of the home if it is below grade and maintains the characteristics of a single-
family home. The purpose of this requirement is to preserve the single-family
residential appearance of the building.
   E.   Parking: A single-family dwelling with an accessory dwelling unit shall
provide at least one (1) additional off-street parking space for the IADU. In
no case shall the number of off-street parking spaces be less than the number
of vehicles being maintained on the premises. This shall include covered
parking, garages and tandem parking in driveways. Tandem parking within a
driveway is allowed to meet the parking requirement. No parking spaces may be
located within the front or side yard setbacks adjacent to a street, except for
within an approved driveway. At a minimum, all parking areas and driveways
shall be paved with concrete, asphalt, masonry, or concrete pavers. Permitted
accessory parking standards must meet minimum parking requirements. No
accessory dwelling may be allowed on any lot that cannot satisfy the parking
requirements. (Ord. 2021-14, 9-28-2021)
CHAPTER 20
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
SECTION:
11-20-1: Purpose
11-20-2: Applicability
11-20-3: Authority
11-20-4: Definitions
11-20-5: Allowed Facilities
11-20-6: Siting And Design Standards
11-20-7: Required Findings
11-20-8: Application Required
11-20-9: Fees
11-20-10: Revocation Of Permits
11-20-11: Other Considerations
11-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to reasonably regulate the installation,
operation, co-location, modification, and removal of small wireless facilities
(SWFs) in City public rights-of-way, balancing the benefit of wireless services
with other established goals, objectives and values of the City while promoting
and protecting the public health, safety, and welfare. This chapter is not
intended to prohibit or effectively prohibit personal wireless services or to
discriminate among providers of personal wireless services.
   A.   This chapter is intended to meet the following goals:
      1.   Promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare by
reducing the visibility and adverse impacts of SWFs to the fullest extent
possible through the use of integrated design techniques and sensitivity to
placement, height, and overall impacts.
      2.   Provide for the managed development and installation, maintenance,
modification and removal of wireless communication infrastructure in the City
without discriminating against wireless service providers of functionally
equivalent services.
      3.   Encourage the effective deployment of smaller and less intrusive
SWFs where such facilities will have the greatest value to existing wireless
infrastructure and minimize adverse impacts upon other infrastructure, the
rights-of-way, and the public health, safety and welfare.
      4.   Encourage the deployment of SWFs along arterial and collector
streets and limit their deployment along local streets.
      5.   Encourage the location of SWFs in non-residential areas.
      6.   Encourage and support the co-location of SWFs wherever possible on
both existing and new wireless support structures.
      7.   Enhance the ability of wireless service providers to provide
services to the community quickly and efficiently.
      8.   Effectively manage SWFs in the public rights-of-way.
   B.   Nothing herein is intended to waive or limit the City's right to
enforce or condition approval on compliance with generally applicable Building,
Structural, Electrical and Safety Codes or with other laws codifying standards
related to public health and safety. (Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to the construction, modification, removal and
operation of small wireless facilities (SWFs) installed in the public rights-
of-way. All references to SWFs in this chapter shall refer only to SWFs in the
public rights-of-way and not SWFs located anywhere outside of the public
rights-of- way. No person shall install, construct, modify, or otherwise place
any SWF within the public rights-of-way except pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter. The definitions used in this chapter apply only to this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-3: AUTHORITY:
In accordance with Federal and State law, the City may exercise zoning, land
use, planning, placement and permitting authority with respect to wireless
support structures and utility poles. This chapter is enacted pursuant and
subject to the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 (47 USC section 332), the
Spectrum Act (47 USC section 1455) the rules and regulations promulgated by the
Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") under its rulemaking authority
related to the installation and siting of wireless communications facilities,
and title 54 chapter 21 of the Utah Code. To the fullest extent allowed under
Federal and State law, rules and regulations, the City reserves the right to
regulate zoning, land use, planning, placement and permitting related to
wireless communication facilities. (Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases are
interpreted to have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ANTENNA: Communication equipment that transmits or receives an electromagnetic
radio frequency signal used in the provision of wireless service.
APPLICABLE CODES: The International Building Code, the International Fire Code,
the National Electrical Code, the International Plumbing Code, and the
International Mechanical Code, as adopted and amended under Utah Code
Annotated, title 15A, State Construction and Fire Codes Act.
APPLICABLE STANDARDS: The structural standards for antenna supporting
structures and antenna, known as ANSI/TIA-222, from the American National
Standards Institute and the Telecommunications Industry Association.
APPLICANT: A wireless provider or their authorized agent who submits an
application.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by a wireless provider for a permit to co-
locate a small wireless facility in a right-of-way or to install, modify or
replace a utility pole or a wireless support structure.
CO-LOCATE: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a small
wireless facility on an existing wireless support structure.
DESIGN DISTRICT: An area that is zoned or otherwise designated by Municipal
ordinance or this Code, and for which the City maintains and enforces unique
design and aesthetic standards on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis.
DIRECTOR: The Community Development Director or designee.
ELIGIBLE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Any monopole, utility pole, wireless support
structure or related accessory equipment, as defined in this section, provided
that it is existing at the time the relevant application is filed with the
City.
LOCAL STREET: A right-of-way designed primarily to serve land- access functions
and projected trip length less than one mile, with two (2) lanes of ten feet
(10') to twelve feet (12') in width and a design speed of twenty (20) to thirty
(30) miles per hour.
MAJOR ARTERIAL STREET: A right-of-way designed primarily to serve through-
traffic movements and projected trip length between one and two (2) miles, with
six (6) lanes of twelve feet (12') in width and a design speed forty (40) to
forty five (45) miles per hour.
MAJOR COLLECTOR STREET: A right-of-way designed primarily to serve through
traffic movements and projected trip length of one mile, with two (2) to five
(5) lanes of twelve feet (12') in width and a design speed of forty five (45)
to fifty five (55) miles per hour.
MICRO-WIRELESS FACILITY: Refers to a type of very small wireless facility that,
not including any antenna is no larger in dimension than twenty four inches
(24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in width, and twelve inches (12") in
height, on which any exterior antenna is no longer than eleven inches (11"),
and which only provides Wi-Fi service.
MINOR ARTERIAL STREET: A right-of-way designed primarily to serve through
traffic movements and projected trip length of greater than one mile, with four
(4) to five (5) lanes of twelve feet (12') in width and a design speed forty
(40) to forty five (45) miles per hour.
MINOR COLLECTOR STREET: A right-of-way designed primarily to serve through
traffic movements and projected trip length of one mile, with two (2) to three
(3) lanes of eleven feet (11') to twelve feet (12') in width and a design speed
of twenty five (25) to thirty five (35) miles per hour.
MONOPOLE: A structure in the right-of-way erected by an applicant or provider
specifically to support SWFs.
NONDISCRIMINATORY: Describes the equal treatment of similar situated entities
unless there is a reasonable, competitively neutral basis for different
treatment.
PERMIT: Written authorization from the City allowing the provider to perform
work pursuant to the installation of a small wireless facility.
RELATED ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT: Refers to equipment used in conjunction with an
antenna or other component of SWFs which may be attached to a wireless support
structure or located on the ground at or near the base of a wireless support
structure.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Refers to any area within, on, below, or above a public road,
highway, street or alley, and may include sidewalks, park-strips and other
areas associated with them and controlled by the City.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY (SWF): A wireless facility on which each provider's
antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet in
volume and for which all related accessory equipment, whether mounted on the
pole or the ground, is cumulatively no more than twenty eight (28) cubic feet
in volume.
SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION: A modification to an eligible support structure
which: a) increases the height of the structure by more than ten percent (10%)
or more than ten feet (10'), whichever is greater; b) involves adding an
appurtenance to the body of the structure that would protrude from the edge of
the structure more than six feet (6'); c) involves the installation of more
than the standard number of new equipment cabinets for the technology involved,
but not to exceed four (4) cabinets; involves the installation of any new
equipment cabinets on the ground if there are no pre-existing ground cabinets
associated with the structure; or involves the installation of ground cabinets
that are more than ten percent (10%) larger in height or overall volume than
any other ground cabinets associated with the structure; d) entails any
excavation or deployment outside of the current site; or e) would defeat the
concealment elements of the eligible support structure.
TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE: The demonstrated measure of the feasibility of a proposal
as it relates specifically to projected constraints of engineering, impacts to
the signal, spectrum, stability, or practical interference with other
facilities or properties.
UTILITY POLE: A. A pole or similar structure in the public rights-of-way which
is or may be used, in whole or in part, for: 1) wireline communications; 2)
electric distribution; 3) lighting; 4) traffic control; 5) signage; 6)
functions similar to items 1 through 5 of this subsection; or 7) the co-
location of an SWF.
   B.   Utility pole does not include: 1) a wireless support structure; 2) a
structure that supports electric transmission lines; or 3) a City owned
structure that supports electric lines used for the provision of the City's
electric service.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: An existing or proposed structure located in the
right-of-way and designed to support or to be capable of supporting an SWF. A
wireless support structure does not include: a) a structure designed solely for
the co-location of an SWF; b) a utility pole; or c) a City owned structure that
supports electric lines used for the provision of the City's electric service.
(Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-5: ALLOWED FACILITIES:
   A.   Application: All new small wireless facilities (SWFs) are required to
make application to the City, providing information and materials as required
by section
11-20-8 of this chapter. Applications for new SWFs will be reviewed for
compliance with: 1) this section; 2) an applicable franchise agreement, a form
of which is on file with the City; and 3) section
11-13-19 of this title, where applicable. The following facility types are
allowed for SWF applications in the public rights-of-way:
      1.   Omni-directional antennas;
      2.   Radio units;
      3.   UE relays;
      4.   Power distribution modules;
      5.   Monopoles or utility poles where section
11-13-19 of this title and this chapter will allow;
      6.   New or replacement utility poles; or
      7.   Other technology that functions similar to those outlined in
subsections A1 through A6 of this section, as may be subsequently determined by
the Director.
   B.   Sidewalks: No SWFs shall be allowed within a sidewalk.
   C.   Prohibited: The following SWFs are prohibited in the public rights-of-
way:
      1.   SWFs that may materially:
         a.   Interfere with the safe operation of traffic control equipment;
         b.   Interfere with the clear view for traffic and pedestrian safety
as otherwise administered in the Clearfield City land use ordinances;
         c.   Create a public health or safety hazard;
         d.   Interfere with compliance with the Americans With Disabilities
Act, or a similar Federal or State standard regarding pedestrian access or
movement; or
      2.   Wireless communication facilities which do not qualify as SWFs under
this chapter.
   D.   Non-Substantial Modification Permitted: Non-substantial modifications
of existing eligible support structures in the public rights-of-way, which have
been installed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, are deemed to
be allowed if:
      1.   The modification decreases the size or height of the facility;
      2.   The modification does not amount to a substantial modification as
defined in this chapter; and
      3.   The modified facility will still meet applicable requirements of
this chapter.
   E.   Zoning Districts:
      1.   All applications for SWFs must comply with this Code. SWFs are
allowed within public rights-of-way in the different zoning districts according
to table 1 of this section.
      2.   The Form Based Code zoning districts of the City are design
districts. As a condition for approval in these zones, a provider shall adhere
to reasonable design or concealment measures for a new SWF, new monopole or
replacement utility pole. A provider shall also comply with reasonable stealth
measures in these zoning districts, if such stealth measures are technically
and economically feasible, consistent with title 54 chapter 21 of the Utah
Code.
   TABLE 1
   SUMMARY OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES AS BY ZONING DISTRICT AND MOUNTING
TYPES
Key:
   N = Not permitted
   P = Permitted
                                                                SWF       SWF
         SWF               SWF      SWF                         Attached  Attached
         Attached SWF      Attached Attached SWF      SWF       To        To
Zoning   To       Attached To       To New   Attached Ground    Utility   Traffic
District Existing To New   Existing Utility  To Light Equipment Line      Signals
         Monopole Monopole Utility  Pole     Pole               (Micro-   And
                           Pole                                 Wireless  Street
                                                                Facility) Signs
                                                                SWF       SWF
         SWF               SWF      SWF                         Attached  Attached
         Attached SWF      Attached Attached SWF      SWF       To        To
Zoning   To       Attached To       To New   Attached Ground    Utility   Traffic
District Existing To New   Existing Utility  To Light Equipment Line      Signals
         Monopole Monopole Utility  Pole     Pole               (Micro-   And
                           Pole                                 Wireless  Street
                                                                Facility) Signs
A-1, 2   P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
R-1-9    P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
R-1-8    P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
R-1-6    P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
R-2      P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
R-3      P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
R-M      P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
R-1-Open P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
R-3R     P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
B-1      P        N1       P        N1       P        P         P         P
PF       P        N        P        P        P        N         P         P
C-1      P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
C-2      P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
C-R      P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
M-1      P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
D-R      P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
MU       P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
P-D      P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
S-P      P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
FBC      P        P        P        P        P        P         P         P
 
Note:
   1.    Not permitted, with the exception that in cases where the right-of-way
is greater than 60 feet in width, the SWF type is permitted.
(Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-6: SITING AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Submittal To Include Site And Area Assessment: Applications for SWFs in
the public rights-of-way shall include an assessment of the proposed site's
position in relation to other sites and SWFs in the larger area. This
assessment should include future SWFs and future modifications of existing SWFs
which are planned within five (5) years of the application.
   B.   Co-Location And Application For New Monopoles: Wherever possible, the
City encourages the installation of new SWFs in the public rights-of-way be
accomplished by co-location with existing utility poles. Where new monopoles
are necessary, the City strongly encourages designs which facilitate the co-
location of future, additional SWFs.
   C.   Integrated Design Consideration Required: SWFs shall be integrated
harmoniously into the wireless support structure and generally shall be
installed in a manner minimizing or eliminating the visual impact. Such SWFs
should not be readily noticed. To the maximum extent possible, the application
shall consider the surrounding colors, materials, and architectural features to
ensure that the design of the new facility is in harmony with the surrounding
area. These treatments shall apply to all new equipment, extensions of height
to accommodate equipment, and to new monopoles.
   D.   Height And Dimension Of New Monopoles And Replacement Utility Poles:
Where allowed by this section, the height of new monopoles and replacement
utility poles and the antenna they support in the public rights-of-way shall
not exceed thirty feet (30') above ground level along local streets, and forty
feet (40') above ground level on major and minor collector streets and major
and minor arterial streets as identified by the City in the Transportation
Master Plan. New monopoles and replacement utility poles for SWFs under this
section shall not be greater than two feet (2') in diameter. The antenna of an
SWF may not extend more than ten feet (10') above the top of a utility pole
existing on or before September 1, 2018.
   E.   Power Supply: Power to the equipment for SWFs in the right-of- way must
come through the base of the pole or infrastructure acting as the wireless
support structure. Installation shall be accomplished in a manner that reduces
visibility to the maximum extent possible.
   F.   Installation At Street Corners And Intersections: SWFs shall, where
feasible, be located at the corner of street intersections.
   G.   New Poles Constructed Of Metal: New monopoles and replacement utility
poles proposed to be constructed for SWFs under the provisions of this chapter
shall be constructed of metal or other structurally similar material which can
be painted or finished to appear to be metal. No new wood poles shall be
installed or constructed to act as wireless support structures.
   H.   Obstruction Of Other Facilities: An SWF allowed under this chapter may
not obstruct or hinder travel and public safety in the public rights-of-way or
damage, obstruct or interfere with the facilities of another utility or another
utility's use in the public rights-of-way. Construction and maintenance of an
SWF by the wireless provider shall comply with all legal obligations for the
protection of underground and overhead utility facilities.
   I.   Damage And Repair: If a wireless provider's activities of installation
or maintenance to an SWF causes damage to a public right-of-way, the wireless
provider shall repair the public right-of-way to the prior condition. The City
shall notify the wireless provider of the need for repairs in writing.
      1.   If a wireless provider fails to make a repair required by the City
under this section within a reasonable time after written notice, the City may
make the repairs or cause the repairs to be made, and charge the wireless
provider for the cost of the repairs.
      2.   If the damage described in this subsection causes an urgent safety
hazard, the City may make the necessary repairs without notification or time
period for response from the wireless provider, and may charge the wireless
provider for the cost of the repairs.
   J.   Height Of Attached Equipment: SWF equipment on new monopoles, and
replacement and existing utility poles, shall be placed higher than eight feet
(8') above ground level.
   K.   Grounding Rods And Pull Boxes: The grounding rod may not extend above
the top of a sidewalk and must be placed in a pull box. The ground wire between
a pole and ground rod must be inside an underground conduit. All pull boxes
must be vehicle load bearing, and comply with any applicable Utah Department of
Transportation Standards. A concrete apron must be installed around all pull
boxes not located in the sidewalk. No new pull boxes may be located in
pedestrian ramps or sidewalks.
   L.   Wiring: No exposed wiring is permitted. Above the electric meter and
disconnect switch, all wiring shall be located inside the pole or covered by
conduit.
   M.   Additional Clearance Requirements: Wireless provider shall comply with
the National Electric Safety Code regarding clearances from existing power
lines, and shall adhere to a twenty five percent (25%) adder to the existing
clearance table.
   N.   Relocation: In accordance with section 54-21-603 of the Utah Code, and
the terms outlined in the franchise agreement, the City may require a provider
to relocate or adjust an SWF in a public right-of-way in a timely manner and
without cost to the City. (Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-7: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   New Poles: When applying to install or construct new monopoles or
replacement utility poles, the applicant must demonstrate to the reasonable
satisfaction of the City, and the City must make a finding that alternate
locations of antenna, other SWFs on existing utility poles, co-locating with
existing SWFs, or use of related accessory facilities will not meet the
applicant's reasonable communication needs. The applicant may be required to
submit evidence to demonstrate these conditions including but not limited to
the following:
      1.   That no existing poles with a suitable height are located within the
geographic area required to meet the applicant's engineering requirements, even
if the applicant increases the number of poles and antennas it uses;
      2.   That existing poles do not have sufficient structural strength to
support applicant's proposed SWF;
      3.   That the applicant's proposed SWFs would cause electromagnetic
interference with the SWFs on the existing facilities or the existing SWF would
cause interference with the applicant's proposed SWF; and
      4.   That there are other limiting factors that render existing poles,
equipment and other SWFs on or in which applicant might co-locate unsuitable
for co-location. (Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-8: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
No new SWF shall be installed or constructed, and no initial location, co-
location, or modification to any SWF may occur except after submission of a
written request from an applicant, reviewed and approved by the City. All SWFs
shall be reviewed pursuant to the following:
   A.   Franchise Agreement: Prior to the City approving a permit, the
applicant must have entered into a small cell wireless franchise agreement with
the City.
   B.   Application Form: The applicant shall submit an application for an SWF
to the City. The City will provide an application form for use by the
applicant. The form must be signed by an authorized official or employee of an
applicant, and be accompanied by a signal interference letter, required
submittal fees, and the following documents for each proposed SWF:
      1.   An accurately scaled site plan of all of applicant's proposed SWF on
paper and in electronic (pdf) format. The plan shall contain data about the
physical aspects of the SWF required by the City, including but not limited to
height and dimensions of the SWF, range of transmission, type of transmission,
location and dimensions of the pole or support, owner of the pole or support,
and similar information;
      2.   Accurate photo simulation and scaled elevation of the proposed SWF
and the new or existing structure it is to be mounted to;
      3.   Industry standard pole load analysis, including information
demonstrating the structural calculations for the supporting structure;
      4.   Letters, agreements, or other documents showing permissions to
locate SWF on the structure or structures of other owners;
      5.   Letters, reports or memoranda signed by appropriate qualified
professionals showing the location and dimension of all improvements, including
information concerning topography, radio frequency coverage, pole height,
setbacks, drives, parking, landscaping, adjacent uses, drainage, and other
information deemed by the City to be necessary to assess compliance with this
chapter;
      6.   An affidavit that the SWF shall be operational for use by a wireless
service provider within two hundred seventy (270) days after the day on which
the City issues the permit.
         a.   In addition to the affidavit submitted under this subsection B6,
a provider must also submit either a copy of their FCC license, or a letter
signed by an FCC license holder confirming that the SWF will be providing
service through its network.
   C.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Applicants for SWFs shall provide the City
an accurate narrative and map description of all of the applicant's existing or
proposed SWFs within the City, and outside of the City within one mile of the
City boundary.
   D.   Application For New Poles: Applications to erect new monopoles,
replacement utility poles or other wireless support structures in the public
rights-of-way shall be reviewed by the Director or designee for conformance
with the requirements of this chapter, any applicable portions of franchise
agreements or other ordinances of the City. All applications for new monopoles,
replacement utility poles or new wireless support structures shall demonstrate
the necessity for the new pole or structure, showing that alternative design
options or use of existing facilities for co-location is not viable.
   E.   Response And Timing: Within thirty (30) days of receiving an
application for an SWF, the City shall determine whether the application is
complete, and notify the applicant in writing of the determination. If the City
has determined that the application is incomplete, the written communication to
the applicant shall detail the deficiencies of the application and any
additional information needed.
      1.   Expiration: An application for an SWF will expire if the City
notifies the applicant that the application is incomplete and the applicant
fails to respond within ninety (90) days after the date of the notification.
      2.   Complete Application: When an application has been determined to be
complete, the City shall process the application in a timely manner, and
approve or deny the application within sixty (60) days after the application is
complete for an application for co-location of an SWF; or one hundred five
(105) days after the application is complete for an application for new
monopole or replacement utility pole.
      3.   Approval: If the City fails to either approve or deny an application
within the applicable time period, the application is approved.
      4.   Denial And Revised Applications:
         a.   The City may deny an application to co-locate an SWF or to
install, modify or replace a monopole or utility pole that meets the height
limitations of this chapter, only if the action requested in the application:
            (1)   Materially interferes with the safe operation of traffic
control equipment;
            (2)   Materially interferes with a sight line or a clear zone for
transportation or pedestrians;
            (3)   Materially interferes with compliance with the Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 USC section 12101 et seq., or a similar Federal or
State standard regarding pedestrian access or movement;
            (4)   Fails to comply with applicable laws or legal obligations;
            (5)   Creates a public health or safety hazard; or
            (6)   Obstructs or hinders the usual travel or public safety of the
public rights-of-way.
         b.   If an application for an SWF is denied under the provisions of
this chapter, the City shall document the basis of the denial and send notice
including that documentation to the applicant.
         c.   Within thirty (30) days after the denial of the application, the
applicant may cure the deficiency and resubmit the application without
additional fees. The City shall approve or deny a resubmitted application
within thirty (30) days of the revised application.
   F.   Exceptions To Permitting:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided, applications for permits are not
required for:
         a.   Routine maintenance of the SWF or support structures for the SWF;
         b.   The replacement of one SWF with another SWF of substantially
similar or smaller size;
         c.   The installation of a micro wireless facility that is strung on a
cable between two (2) existing utility poles in compliance with the National
Electrical Safety Code; or
         d.   Non-substantial modifications as described in this chapter.
      2.   Notwithstanding the above, a wireless provider shall give the City
ten (10) days' advance notice before conducting any of the activities outlined
in subsection F1 of this section.
   G.   Excavation Permits: Notwithstanding the permitting exceptions outlined
in subsection F of this section, an applicant or entity must apply for a permit
for any work that requires excavation or the closing of sidewalks or vehicular
lanes in a public right-of- way.
   H.   Consolidated Applications:
      1.   The City shall allow an applicant:
         a.   For co-location of SWFs, to file a consolidated application for
the co-location of up to twenty five (25) SWFs, if all of the SWFs in the
consolidated application are substantially the same type, and are proposed for
co-location on substantially the same types of structures;
         b.   For installation, modification or replacement of monopoles or
utility poles, to file a consolidated application for up to twenty five (25)
monopoles or replacement utility poles.
      2.   An applicant may not file within a 30-day period more than one
consolidated application, or multiple applications that collectively seek
permits for a combined total of more than twenty five (25) SWFs and monopoles
or replacement utility poles.
      3.   A consolidated application may not combine applications solely for
co-location of SWFs on existing utility poles with applications for the
installation, modification or replacement of a monopole or utility pole. (Ord.
2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-9: FEES:
   A.   Application Fees:
      1.   The application fee for the co-location of an SWF on an existing or
replacement utility pole is set forth in the City's consolidated fee schedule,
and is applicable for each SWF on the same application.
      2.   The application fee for a permitted use to install, modify or
replace a utility pole associated with an SWF is set forth in the City's
consolidated fee schedule, and is applicable per application.
      3.   The application fee for an activity that is not a permitted use to:
         a.   Install, modify or replace a utility pole; or
         b.   Install, modify or replace a new utility pole associated with an
SWF is set forth in the City's consolidated fee schedule, and is applicable per
application.
   B.   Additional Fees: Application fees for SWFs are in addition to all
applicable fees already set forth in the City's consolidated fee schedule, such
as:
      1.   Pole attachment fees that may be charged to a wireless provider by
the City or another entity which owns a structure upon which the SWF is
located;
      2.   Fees required to occupy the public rights-of-way; or
      3.   Fees for excavation, building or other permits required for
installation or construction.
   C.   Co-Location Fees: The fee to co-locate an SWF on a City utility pole is
set forth in the City's consolidated fee schedule, per City utility pole, and
determined by State law.
   D.   Rights-Of-Way Rates:
      1.   For the right to use or occupy the public rights-of-way, the
wireless provider shall pay the City the greater of:
         a.   3.5 percent of all gross revenue related to the wireless
provider's use of the public right-of-way for its SWF; or
         b.   An amount reflected in the City's consolidated fee schedule to be
paid annually for each SWF.
   E.   Monthly Payments: The wireless provider shall remit the public right-
of-way rate payments to the City on a monthly basis. (Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-10: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
In some circumstances the City may take steps to revoke a permit granted for
the installation of an SWF and to cause the removal or modification of such a
facility.
   A.   Revocation: The City may revoke any permit granted for installation of
an SWF under this chapter if it finds that:
      1.   The SWF was constructed without a permit or is in operation in
violation of the terms of a required franchise agreement.
      2.   The SWF was constructed or installed at an unauthorized location.
      3.   There has been a misrepresentation in the application for the SWF.
      4.   There is a violation of the requirements of this chapter.
      5.   There is a violation of the terms of the permit.
      6.   There is a violation of the requirements of other departments of the
City or of the terms of permits issued by other departments of the City related
to the installation of the SWF.
      7.   There is a failure to pay fees and taxes as required under this
chapter or a pertinent franchise agreement.
      8.   There is demonstrated insolvency or bankruptcy of the permittee.
      9.   Facilities, including any pole, in the public rights-of-way have
been abandoned and have not been removed.
         a.   Abandonment may be presumed to have occurred if the use has been
discontinued for a minimum of one year, or the structure remains vacant for a
period of one year.
         b.   The provider may rebut the presumption of abandonment, and has
the burden of establishing that any claimed abandonment has not occurred.
   B.   Notice: In the event that the City finds that there are grounds for
revocation of a permit, the City shall give written notice of the apparent
violation or noncompliance to the provider or owner of the facility, and
provide a period not to exceed thirty (30) days in which the provider or owner
of the facility may:
      1.   Show that corrective actions have been or are being actively pursued
in order to remedy the violation or noncompliance.
      2.   Provide evidence rebutting the City's findings of noncompliance or
violation.
   C.   City Action: In the event that an applicant holding a permit fails to
show corrective actions or successfully rebut the City's findings of
noncompliance or violation, the City may revoke the permit and take necessary
actions to cause the removal of the SWF or related accessory equipment found to
be in violation or noncompliant. When a permit has been revoked by the City
under this subsection, it shall be considered an unauthorized facility.
   D.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within forty five (45) days of
written notice by the City, a provider or owner of an SWF which has not been
authorized by permit or for which a permit has been revoked under this chapter
shall, at its sole expense, remove any facilities from the public rights-of-
way. If the facilities are not removed from the public rights-of-way within
this time, the City may cause such removal and charge the provider or owner for
the costs incurred. (Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-2018)
11-20-11: OTHER CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   Lighting: SWFs shall not be lighted. In cases where the equipment is
mounted on a light pole, the placement of the equipment shall be considered in
order to minimize visibility when the street light is lit.
   B.   Noise: Noise generated by small cellular technology wireless facilities
shall not exceed levels permitted by the City or the Davis County Health
Department.
   C.   Indemnity And Insurance: A wireless provider shall indemnify the City
as set forth in the franchise agreement. A wireless provider shall also obtain
and provide proof of insurance coverage as required by the franchise agreement.
Each permit issued for an SWF located in the public right-of-way shall be
deemed to have as a condition of the permit a requirement that the applicant
defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City and its officials, officers,
agents, employees, volunteers and contractors from any and all liability,
damages, or charges, including attorneys' fees and expenses, arising out of
claims, suits, demands or causes of action as a result of the permit process, a
granted permit, construction, erection, location, performance, operation,
maintenance, repair, installation, replacement, removal or restoration of the
SWF.
   D.   Damage: No provider or wireless facility owner or any person or entity
acting on their behalf shall take any action or permit any action to be taken
which may impair or damage any public right-of-way or the property of another
located in, on, or adjacent to the public right-of-way.
   E.   Pruning Of Trees And Shrubs: If a provider determines that trees and
vegetation in the right-of-way interfere with the installation, maintenance, or
removal of the provider's SWF or related accessory equipment, a request may be
made to the City for such trimming or pruning to be done by the Public Works
Department. Such a request shall be made with specificity sufficient for the
City's employees to assess the work that may be needed. The provider shall not
perform work, or cause work to be performed, relative to the pruning or
trimming of trees or vegetation in the public rights-of-way unless specifically
directed to do so by the City's Public Works Department after consideration of
a request and according to established standards.
   F.   Replacement Utility Poles: When replacing a utility pole, a provider
must install or construct the new utility pole in the same location, or as
close to the same location as possible, as the pole being replaced unless
another location is authorized in writing by the City. (Ord. 2018-16, 9-11-
2018)
CHAPTER 21
LANDSCAPING STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-21-1: Purpose And Intent
11-21-2: Definitions
11-21-3: Applicability
11-21-4: Commercial, Industrial, Multi-Family, And Public Facility Development
Standards
11-21-5: Single-Family Residential
11-21-6: Irrigation Design Standards
11-21-7: Restrictive Covenants Requiring Turf Or Plant Material With Uniform
Overhead Spray Irrigation
11-21-8: Completion Of Improvements
11-21-9: Tree And Shrub Regulations For Public Ways And Places
11-21-10: Supplementary Standards
11-21-11: Prohibited Watering Practices
11-21-12: Enforcement, Penalty For Violations
11-21-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Landscaping Standards and Requirements ordinance is established to promote
the health, safety, and general welfare of the public by enhancing the
aesthetic quality of residential and commercial areas while promoting water-
efficient landscaping. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set
forth herein:
ACTIVE RECREATION AREA: An area that is dedicated to active play, including
where turf may provide a playing surface.
BUBBLER: An irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding”
the planted area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a
trickle, umbrella, or short stream pattern.
CHECK VALVE: A device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from
draining out of the pipe through gravity flow. Used to prevent pollution or
contamination of the water supply due to the reverse flow of water.
DRIP EMITTER: Drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root
zone of the plant, usually measured in gallons per hour.
EVAPO-TRANSPIRATION (ET): The quantity of water evaporated from adjacent soil
and other surfaces and transpired by plants during a specified time, expressed
in inches per day, month or year.
GRADING PLAN: The Grading Plan shows all finish grades, spot elevations as
necessary and existing and new contours with the developed landscape area.
GROUND COVER: Material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over
the ground.
GROUND PLANE COVERAGE: Vegetative cover of the horizontal surfaces of a
landscaped area. Canopies of deciduous trees shall not be counted toward the
coverage calculation.
HARDSCAPE: Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, stone or brick
pavers, or compacted organic mulch.
IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY: the measurement of the amount of water beneficially
applied, divided by the total amount of water applied. Irrigation efficiency is
derived from measurements and estimates of irrigation system hardware
characteristics and management practices.
IRRIGATION PLAN: The irrigation plan shows the components of the irrigation
system with water meter size, backflow prevention (when outdoor irrigation is
supplied with culinary water), precipitation rates, flow rate and operating
pressure for each irrigation circuit, and identification of all irrigation
equipment.
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT: A person who holds a certificate to practice landscape
architecture in the state of Utah. Only a Landscape Architect can legally
create commercial landscape plans.
LANDSCAPE DESIGNER: A person who may or may not hold professional certificates
for landscape design/architecture and cannot legally create commercial
landscape plans. Landscape Designers generally focus on residential design and
horticultural needs of home landscapes.
LANDSCAPE PLAN: The landscape plan shows the design of the landscape with
natural features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks,
hardscape, and other features to comply with this chapter. Types of plantings
are identified, and quantities included. A landscape and open space percentage
of the site is also included to ensure conformance with the minimum
requirements of the zone in which the development is located.
LANDSCAPE ZONE: A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar
water needs, areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind,
etc.) and soil conditions, and areas that will be similarly irrigated. A
landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve, or a set of valves with
the same schedule.
LANDSCAPED AREA: Improved areas of the property that make up the landscape. The
landscaped area does not include building or structure footprints, sidewalks,
and other non-irrigated natural areas intentionally left undeveloped.
LANDSCAPING: Any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines,
ground covers, flowers, or grass; natural features such as rock, stone, or bark
chips; and structural features, including but not limited to, fountains,
reflecting pools, outdoor art work, screen walls, fences or benches.
LOCALSCAPES®: A locally adaptable and environmentally sustainable urban
landscape style that requires less irrigation than traditional Utah landscapes
(see www.Localscapes.com).
MULCH: Any material such as rock, bark, wood chips or other materials left
loose and applied to the soil.
OPEN SPACE: An area which is completely free and unobstructed from any building
or structure. Landscaping, walkways, covered patios, light poles and other
ornamental features shall not be considered obstructions for the purposes of
this definition. Areas used for storm drainage shall not be eligible for
inclusion in a required open space area. Utility corridors shall only be
counted toward the open space requirement if improved as an accessible amenity
to the project or the community as a whole.
PARK STRIP: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb
and sidewalk.
PLANNED SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT: A planned single-family
development with specific open space and/or amenity standards that are required
by the zone or a development agreement, and in which common open spaces will be
maintained by a homeowner’s association or organization.
PLANTER BED: Any irrigated, non-turf portion of the landscaped area.
PLANTING PLAN: A Planting Plan shall clearly and accurately identify and locate
new and existing trees, shrubs, ground covers, turf areas, driveways,
sidewalks, hardscape features, and fences.
POP-UP SPRAY HEAD: A sprinkler head that sprays water through a nozzle in a
fixed pattern with no rotation.
PRECIPITATION RATE: The depth of water applied to a given area, usually
measured in inches per hour.
PRESSURE COMPENSATING: A drip irrigation system that compensates for
fluctuating water pressure by only allowing a fixed volume of water through
drip emitters.
PUBLIC FACILITY: A government, educational, or non-profit organization that
provides services to the general public.
REHABILITATED LANDSCAPING: Altering, repairing, or adding to a landscape to
make possible a compatible use, increase curb appeal, decrease maintenance,
etc.
ROTOR SPRAY HEAD: A sprinkler head that distributes water through a nozzle by
the rotation of a gear or mechanical rotor.
RUNOFF: Irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to
which it is applied, and which flows onto other areas.
SMART AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION CONTROLLER: An automatic timing device used to
remotely control valves in the operation of an irrigation system using the
internet to connect to a real time weather source or soil moisture sensor.
Smart Automatic Irrigation Controllers schedule irrigation events using either
evapotranspiration or soil moisture data to control when and how long
sprinklers or drip systems operate and will vary based on time of year and
weather/soil moisture conditions.
SPRAY SPRINKLER: An irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
STREAM SPRINKLER: An irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor
in single or multiple streams.
TURF: A surface layer of earth containing grass species with full root
structures that are maintained as mowed grass.
WASTE OF WATER: Includes, but is not necessarily limited to:
   1.   The use of water for any purpose, including outdoor irrigation, that
consumes, or for which is applied substantial excess water beyond the
reasonable amount required by the use, whether such excess water is lost due to
evaporation, percolation, discharges into the sewer system, or is allowed to
run into the gutter or street.
   2.   Washing sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis courts, patios, or
other paved areas except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards.
WATER-CONSERVING PLANT: A plant that can generally survive with available
rainfall once established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or
desirable during periods of dry and warm weather. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-21-3: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all new and rehabilitated
landscaping for public facility projects, commercial and industrial projects,
multi-family residential projects, and landscaping for new single-family
residential dwellings and fully rehabilitated single-family residential
landscapes. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-21-4: COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, MULTI-FAMILY, AND PUBLIC FACILITY DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS:
   A.   Open Space:
      1.   Commercial Developments: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total
lot or parcel area of all commercial developments shall be provided as
landscaped open space. All open space required shall be landscaped with a
minimum of one tree for every six hundred (600) square feet of landscaped area
and one shrub for every two hundred (200) square feet of landscaped area.
Planter beds shall be planted to provide a minimum of 50% ground plane coverage
when plant material reaches maturity. Canopies of deciduous trees shall not
count towards the coverage calculation. Park strips are exempt from the ground
plane coverage requirements.
      2.   Multi-family Developments: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the
total lot or parcel area of multi-family developments located in the R-2 Zone
shall be provided as landscaped open space. A minimum of twenty-five percent
(25%) of the total lot or parcel area of multi-family developments located in
the R-3 Zone shall be provided as landscaped open space. All open space
required shall be landscaped with a minimum of one tree for every six hundred
(600) square feet of landscaped area and one shrub for every two hundred (200)
square feet of landscaped area. Planter beds shall be planted to provide a
minimum of 50% ground plane coverage when plant material reaches maturity.
Canopies of deciduous trees shall not count towards the coverage calculation.
Park strips are exempt from the ground plane coverage requirements.
      3.   Industrial Developments: A minimum of five percent (5%) of the total
lot or parcel area shall be provided as landscaped open space. All open space
required shall be landscaped with a minimum of one tree for every one thousand
(1,000) square feet of landscaped area and one shrub for every six hundred
(600) square feet of landscaped area.
         a.   All yard areas between a street frontage and buildings, parking
areas, or storage areas which are not used for vehicular or pedestrian access
shall be landscaped with a minimum buffer landscaping depth of ten feet (10').
         b.   If adjacent to a residential zoning district, an additional
building setback of ten feet (10') shall be provided adjacent to the
residential use to reduce the visual impact of large-scale industrial
buildings. The additional ten feet (10') shall be landscaped with trees to
provide buffering and shall not include parking, vehicular access, or storage
areas for equipment or mechanical systems. Those uses may exist beyond the ten
foot (10') buffer.
      4.   Developments in the P-F Zone (Public Facilities):
         a.   Public Utility Facilities and Public Works Facilities shall
comply with the open space and landscaping standards of Industrial
Developments.
         b.   All other uses in the P-F Zone shall provide a minimum of fifteen
percent (15%) of the total lot or parcel area as landscaped open space. All
open space required shall be landscaped with a minimum of one tree for every
six hundred (600) square feet of landscaped area and one shrub for every two
hundred (200) square feet of landscaped area. Planter beds shall be planted to
provide a minimum of 50% ground plane coverage when plant material reaches
maturity. Canopies of deciduous trees shall not count towards the coverage
calculation. Park strips are exempt from the ground plane coverage
requirements.
   B.   Landscape Design Standards:
      1.   Plant Selection:
         a.   Plants shall be well-suited to conditions at the project site.
Both native and locally adapted plants are acceptable. Plants with similar
water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible.
         b.   Areas with slopes greater than 33% shall be landscaped with deep-
rooting, water-conserving plants for erosion control and soil stabilization.
         c.    Park strips and other landscaped areas less than eight (8) feet
wide shall not be landscaped with turf and shall be maintained free of weeds.
Any hardscape installed within a park strip shall cover no more than fifty
percent (50%) of the park strip area, unless otherwise required by city code.
         d.   Turf area shall not exceed 15% of the total landscaped area,
outside of active recreation areas.
      Note: Please visit weberbasin.com for a list of recommended water-
conserving plants (not a comprehensive list).
      2.   Mulch: After completion of planting, all irrigated non-turf areas
shall be covered with a minimum three (3) inch layer of mulch to retain water,
inhibit weed growth, and moderate soil temperature. Non-porous material such as
concrete or asphalt shall not be placed under the mulch.
      3.   Tree Selection: Tree species shall be selected based on growth
characteristics and site conditions, including available space, overhead
clearance, soil conditions, exposure, and desired color and appearance. Trees
shall be selected as follows:
         a.   Broad canopy trees shall be selected where shade or screening of
tall objects is desired;
         b.   Low-growing trees shall be selected for spaces under utility
wires;
         c.   Trees shall be selected from which lower branches can be trimmed
to maintain a healthy growth habit where vision clearance and natural
surveillance is a concern;
         d.   Narrow or columnar trees shall be selected where awnings or other
building features limit growth, or where greater visibility is desired between
buildings and the street for natural surveillance;
         e.   Street trees shall be planted within existing and proposed park
strips, and in sidewalk tree wells on streets without park strips. Tree
placement shall provide canopy cover (shade) and avoid conflicts with existing
trees, retaining walls, utilities, lighting, and other obstacles. All street
trees shall comply with the clear vision standards of this Title;
         f.   All trees to be installed on public property or on property to be
maintained by the city shall be subject to approval by the city arborist or
designee;
      4.   Plant Material Size at Installation:
         a.   Deciduous trees shall be installed at a minimum size of two (2)
inches in caliper, measured eight (8) inches above the soil line.
         b.   Evergreen trees shall be installed at a minimum height of six (6)
feet.
         c.   Shrubs shall be installed at a minimum size of three (3) gallon.
         d.   Ornamentals grasses and perennials shall be installed at a
minimum size of one (1) gallon.
         e.   Groundcover shall be installed at a minimum height of three (3)
inches.
   C.   Landscape and Irrigation Plan Submittal: A copy of a landscape and
irrigation plan shall be submitted to and approved by the city prior to the
issue of any permit. The plans shall be prepared by a registered landscape
architect and shall consist of the following items:
      1.   Landscape Plan. A detailed landscape plan shall be drawn at a scale
that clearly identifies the following:
         a.   Project name and address, and landscape architect’s information;
         b.   Location of all plant materials, a legend with botanical and
common names, and size of plant materials;
         c.   Location of landscape features, ground and water forms, walks,
hardscape, mulch, and other features;
         d.   Property lines and street names;
         e.   Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities, paved
areas and other site improvements;
         f.   Existing trees and plant materials to be removed or retained;
         g.   Scale: graphic and written;
         h.   Date of design;
         i.   Designation of a landscape zone; and
         j.   Details and specifications for tree staking, soil preparation,
and other planting work.
      2.   Irrigation Plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the
same scale as the planting plan and shall contain the following information:
         a.   Layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the type
and size of all components of the system, including manufacturer name and model
numbers;
         b.   Static water pressure in pounds per square inch (PSI) at the
point of connection to the public water supply;
         c.   Flow rate in gallons per minute and design operating pressure in
psi for each valve and precipitation rate in inches per hour for each valve
with sprinklers; and
         d.   Installation details for irrigation components.
   D.   Plan Review, Construction Inspection, and Post-Construction Monitoring:
      1.   As part of the land use approval process, a copy of the landscape
and irrigation plans shall be submitted to the city for review and approval
before construction begins.
      2.   All installers and designers shall meet state and local license,
insurance, and bonding requirements, and be able to show proof of such.
      3.   During construction, site inspection of the landscaping may be
performed by the city.
      4.   Following construction and prior to issuing the approval for
occupancy, an inspection shall be scheduled with the Community Development
Department to verify compliance with the approved landscape plans.
   Note: The City reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time
before, during, or after the irrigation system and landscape installation, and
to require corrective measures if requirements of this chapter are not
satisfied. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 4-23-2024)
11-21-5: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
   A.   Open Space:
      1.   Single-family Residential Developments: Each lot or parcel located
within a platted single-family subdivision shall comply with the minimum open
space requirements of the zone in which the property is located.
      2.   Planned Single-family Residential Developments: Developments shall
comply with the open space requirements of the zone in which the property is
located or comply with the requirements of any applicable development
agreement.
   B.   Landscape Design Standards:
      1.   Plant Selection:
         a.   Plants shall be well-suited to the microclimate and soil
conditions at the project site. Both native and locally adapted plants are
acceptable. Plants with similar water needs should be grouped together as much
as possible.
         b.   Areas with slopes greater than 33% shall be landscaped with deep-
rooting, water-conserving plants for erosion control and soil stabilization.
         c.   Park strips and other landscaped areas less than eight (8) feet
wide shall not be landscaped with turf and shall be maintained free of weeds.
Any hardscape installed within a park strip shall cover no more than twenty-
five percent (25%) of the park strip area.
         d.   Turf area shall not exceed 35% of the combined front and interior
side yard landscaped areas of the lot or parcel or 250 square feet, whichever
is greater.
      Note: Please visit weberbasin.com for a list of recommended water-
conserving plants (not a comprehensive list).
      2.   Mulch: After completion of all planting, all irrigated non-turf
areas and all non-irrigated park strip areas shall be covered with a minimum
three (3) inch layer of mulch to retain water, inhibit weed growth, and
moderate soil temperature. Non-porous material shall not be placed under the
mulch.
   C.   Homebuilders and Developers:
      1.   Homebuilders and developers subdividing lots and/or constructing new
single-family residential homes within a planned development with common
ownership and maintenance of landscaped areas shall comply with all of the
water efficient landscaping and irrigation standards of this chapter, and
provide water efficient designs, such as the Localscapes® design style, to
prospective home buyers.
      2.   Any Model Home shall meet the water-efficient landscaping standards
of this chapter and provide an informational brochure on water-efficient
landscaping. Brochures can be obtained from the City Planning Division. (Ord.
2022-06, 2-22-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 4-23-2024)
11-21-6: IRRIGATION DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Irrigation systems shall be designed to maximize irrigation efficiency.
   B.   Landscaped areas shall be provided with a smart automatic irrigation
controller. Smart irrigation controllers shall be WaterSense® labeled and
automatically adjust the frequency and/or duration of irrigation events in
response to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped with
automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.
   C.   Each valve shall irrigate a landscape with similar site, slope, and
soil conditions. Plants watered by a valve should have similar watering needs.
Turf and non-turf areas shall be irrigated on separate valves. Drip emitters
and sprinklers shall be placed on separate valves.
   D.   Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be provided for each tree. Bubblers
shall not exceed 1.5 gallons per minute per device. Bubblers for trees shall be
placed on a separate valve unless specifically exempted by the City due to the
limited number of trees on the project site. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall
be used to irrigate plants in non-turf areas.
   E.   Pop-up spray heads shall be at a minimum of four (4) inches in height
to avoid blockage from lawn foliage.
   F.   Sprinkler heads shall be attached to rigid lateral lines with flexible
material (swing joints) to reduce potential for breakage.
   G.   Check valves shall be required where elevation differences cause low-
head drainage. Pressure compensating valves and sprinklers shall be required
where a significant variation in water pressure occurs within the irrigation
system due to elevation differences.
   H.   Filters shall be required on all secondary water service connections.
Filters shall have as a minimum a 30 mesh screen and shall be cleaned and
maintained by the property owner on a regular basis.
   I.   Drip irrigation lines require additional filtration at or after the
zone valve at a minimum of 200 mesh and end flush valves are required as
necessary for drip irrigation lines.
   J.   Valves with spray or stream sprinklers shall be scheduled to operate in
accordance with local water supplier restrictions to reduce water loss from
wind, evaporation, or other environmental conditions not suitable for
irrigation.
   K.   Program valves for multiple repeat cycles where necessary to reduce
runoff, particularly on slopes and soils with slow infiltration rates. (Ord.
2022-06, 2-22-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 4-23-2024)
11-21-7: RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS REQUIRING TURF OR PLANT MATERIAL WITH UNIFORM
OVERHEAD SPRAY IRRIGATION:
   A.   Any Homeowners Association governing documents, such as bylaws,
operating rules, covenants, conditions, and restrictions that govern the
operation of a common interest development, shall not:
      1.   Require the use of any uniform plant material requiring overhead
spray irrigation in landscape areas less than eight (8) feet wide or require
any uniform plant material requiring overhead spray irrigation in other areas
that exceed 35% of the landscaped area; or
      2.   Prohibit, or include conditions that have the effect of prohibiting,
the use of water-conserving plants as a group; or
      3.   Have the effect of prohibiting or restricting compliance with this
chapter or other water conservation measures. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-21-8: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Completion: All landscaping improvements required by this title shall
be installed in accordance with the approved landscape and irrigation plans as
follows:
      1.   Nonresidential Landscaping: Landscaping for commercial, industrial,
and public facility projects shall be completed prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the building or structure with which it is
associated, or in cases of inclement weather, within six (6) months of the date
of initial occupancy. The date of initial occupancy shall be the date that a
certificate of occupancy is issued for the first building or structure of an
individual phase or plat of the development.
      2.   Multi-family Residential: Landscaping for two-family and multiple-
family dwellings in all zones shall be completed prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the building or structure with which they are
associated, or in cases of inclement weather, within six (6) months of the date
of initial occupancy. Date of initial occupancy will be the date that a
certificate of occupancy is issued for the first dwelling unit.
      3.   Single-family Residential: The front and side yards of all single-
family dwellings in all zones shall be landscaped within twelve (12) months of
the date of initial occupancy for the building or structure with which they are
associated. The rear yard shall be landscaped within eighteen (18) months of
the date of initial occupancy. Date of initial occupancy will be the date that
a certificate of occupancy is issued for the dwelling unit.
   B.   Bond/Escrow required for nonresidential, two-family, and multiple-
family developments: In cases of inclement weather and in order to ensure that
all required landscaping is installed in an acceptable manner, the developer
shall post a separate cash bond with the city or establish an escrow account
with an appropriate financial institution. The cash bond or escrow account
shall be subject to approval by the Community Development Department, and shall
be in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated costs
of construction and installation of all required landscaping, parks,
playgrounds, recreation facilities, fences, walls, and other amenities shown on
the final landscape plan or site plan, as applicable.
      1.   The bond or escrow account shall be posted or established in
accordance with all other city regulations.
      2.   The bond or escrow account shall be posted or established prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the site.
      3.   The bond shall be accompanied by a schedule of anticipated
completion dates for such improvements. In no case shall the time period for
completion exceed the time periods set forth in subsection A of this section.
      4.   In the event that the improvements are not completed in reasonable
conformance with said schedule, the city may undertake to complete the
improvements and pay for such improvements from the bond or escrow account.
      5.   This section shall not pertain to the completion or installation of
private landscaping on individual building lots for single-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-21-9: TREE AND SHRUB REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES:
   A.   Purpose: The city values its open spaces, both natural and enhanced,
and recognizes the importance of trees within the community. Not only do trees
add to the beauty of the community, but they stabilize surface drainage and
soil erosion. A well-designed landscape can reduce air and sound pollution,
regulate solar radiation, and help with wind control.
   B.   City Arborist:
      1.   Created: The Community Services Director or designee shall appoint a
City Arborist.
      2.   Duties And Responsibilities: The City Arborist shall have authority
over all trees and shrubs located within the city’s rights of way, parks, and
public places. On private, commercial, and residential property, the City
Arborist shall have the authority over trees and shrubs which constitute a
public hazard or threat as described in the standards for specification manual.
   C.   Planting Trees, Landscaping in City Right of Way: Tree planting on
public ways shall be coordinated with required open landscaping areas to
achieve the most effective use of these areas and to accomplish the purposes of
aesthetics and conservation. Street trees shall be selected based on growth
characteristics that are well suited to their environment. For a list of
permitted street trees, contact the City Arborist.
   D.   Public Rights of Way Tree and Plant Care: It is the duty of the owner
and occupant of any real property with frontage along a public sidewalk to
maintain any trees, shrubs, and plant material between such property and the
curb line of the street. The city shall have the right, as determined by its
sole discretion, to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees, plants, and
shrubs within rights of way, streets, and public property as may be necessary
to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance public grounds.
   E.   Clear Vision: All trees, shrubs, and other plant material located
within the public rights of way or in public places shall comply with the clear
vision standards of this Title.
   F.   Illegal To Cut, Injure, Or Top Trees:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove trees situated on city
property, including streets and roadways of the city, without obtaining
permission from the city arborist for that purpose.
      2.   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or
city department to top any tree on city property. Topping is the severe cutting
back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the
tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the
tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other cause, or other obstructions
where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this
subsection at the determination of the city arborist.
   G.   Pruning, Corner Clearance: Every owner of any tree or shrub overhanging
any street, sidewalk or right of way within the city, shall prune the branches
so that such branches shall not severely obstruct the light from any
streetlamp, obstruct the view of any street intersection, or obstruct and
create a hazard on a sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or
dangerous trees and shrubs, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any
tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with visibility of any
traffic control device, sign or sight triangle at intersections or constitutes
a hazard on a sidewalk. Any costs incurred by the city will be collected from
the adjacent property owner.
   H.   Appeal: Any person may appeal a decision of the city arborist to the
community service director, who may hear the matter and make a final decision
within sixty (60) days. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-21-10: SUPPLEMENTARY STANDARDS:
   A.   Fee In Lieu of Open Space: A fee in lieu of landscaped open space in
commercial, industrial, multi-family, and public facility developments may be
permitted by the planning commission for required open space that is less than
five thousand (5,000) square feet in size, provided that the development can be
adequately served by existing parks and recreation facilities. The amount of
the fee shall be set forth in the city’s fee schedule. Any fee in lieu paid to
the city shall be set forth in a development agreement. Open space fees in lieu
shall be held by the city in a reserved account to be used solely for
improvements to parks and recreation facilities. Where possible, the fees
collected by the city shall be used to improve the park or open space nearest
the location where those fees were paid.
   B.   Modification: The percentage of required landscaped open space may be
modified through a development agreement, subject to planning commission
recommendation and city council approval. No modification shall be granted,
however, unless the following standards are met:
      1.   The granting of the modification will not adversely affect the
rights of adjacent landowners or residents;
      2.   The modification desired will not adversely affect the public
health, safety, or general welfare; and
   C.   The granting of the modification will not be opposed to the general
spirit and intent of this title or the general plan.
Preservation, Maintenance, And Ownership:
      1.   The planning commission and city council shall require the
preservation, maintenance, and ownership of all required open space for
nonresidential, multi-family, or planned single-family residential developments
through one or a combination of the following:
         a.   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system;
         b.   Dedication of the land as permanent open space on the recorded
plat;
         c.   Granting the city a permanent open space easement on the private
open spaces to guarantee that the open space remain perpetually in recreation
use, with ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of a homeowners’
association; or
         d.   Through compliance with the provisions of the condominium
ownership act as outlined in Title 57 of the Utah code, which provides for the
payment of common expenses for the upkeep of common areas and facilities.
      2.   Landscaping for all single-family residential properties shall be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and applicable
regulations of the zone in which the property is located.
      3.   In the event that open space or other required landscaping
improvements or facilities are not landscaped or maintained in a manner
consistent with the approved site plan or landscaping plan, the city may at its
option cause such landscaping or maintenance to be performed and assess the
costs to the affected property owner(s) or other responsible association or
entity. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-21-11: PROHIBITED WATERING PRACTICES:
Regardless of the age of a development, water shall be properly used. Waste of
water is prohibited. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
11-21-12: ENFORCEMENT, PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
The Community Development Director or designee is authorized to enforce all
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2022-06, 2-22-2022)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Purposes
12-1-3:    Definitions
12-1-4:    Necessity Of Subdivision Plat Approval
12-1-5:    General Responsibilities
12-1-6:    Compliance Required
12-1-7:    Zoning
12-1-8:    Development Agreement
12-1-9:    Concept Plan/Development Review
12-1-10: Administrative Land Use Authority
12-1-11: Modifications; Permitted When; Petition From Subdivider
12-1-12: Penalty
12-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be entitled as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF CLEARFIELD CITY,
UTAH, and may be so cited. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-1-2: PURPOSES:
   A.   The purposes of this title are:
      1.   To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents
of the City.
      2.   To ensure the efficient and orderly subdivision and development of
land within the City.
      3.   To prevent the uncontrolled division and development of real
property, which may be done without considering the rights and best interests
of adjoining property owners and the City as a whole.
      4.   To avoid subdivisions and developments that:
         a.   Do not comply with the City general plan or ordinances,
         b.   Cannot be adequately served by existing utilities or public
services,
         c.   May prove to be dangerous or unsafe due to design, natural or
man-made hazards existing prior to or created by the subdivision and
development,
         d.   May cause an undue burden on existing traffic or transportation
services, or
         e.   May require the future expenditure of public funds to correct
problems caused by the subdivision and development.
      5.   To provide:
         a.   Design standards for public improvements, facilities, and
utilities
         b.   To provide for reasonable access to public rights-of-way, parks,
trails, or open spaces,
         c.   To provide for the dedication of land and streets deemed
necessary for the proper development of the subdivision, and
         d.   To provide for easements or rights-of-way that are necessary to
service the properties created by the subdivision.
   B.   This title is designed to inform the subdivision developer and the
public of requirements for obtaining subdivision plat approval. Because each
parcel of real property has unique site/situational characteristics (whether
natural or man-made), there may be some aspects of subdivision development that
cannot be easily articulated. For this reason, it is not possible to cover
every possible contingency. Therefore, the City Engineer, Planning Commission,
and Community Development Director or designee have the authority to impose
reasonable conditions for the subdivision and development. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-
2023)
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
                                   The Clearfield City Planning Commission for
ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY: preliminary subdivision plats and the
                                   Community Development Director or designee
                                   for final subdivision plats.
                                   A public way which affords a secondary or
ALLEY:                             primary means of vehicular access to an
                                   abutting property or structure.
CITY:                              Clearfield City, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL:                      The Clearfield City Council.
                                   Any individual or firm retained or
CITY ENGINEER:                     designated by Clearfield City as the City
                                   engineer for the purpose of performing
                                   engineering duties.
                                   An individual designated by Clearfield City
                                   as the director of the Community Development
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:    department to oversee the functions and
                                   duties of land use development and licensing
                                   within the City.
                                   A generalized plan indicating the boundaries
CONCEPT PLAN:                      of a tract or tracts identifying proposed
                                   land use and subdivision layout.
CUL-DE-SAC:                        A street closed at one end by an enlarged,
                                   circular vehicular turnaround area.
                                   Is the distance from a survey elevation
                                   stake to a required lower adjacent
CUT:                               elevation. Either excavated material, or the
                                   void resulting from the excavation of earth
                                   material.
                                   A subdivider or any person or organization
DEVELOPER:                         that develops, or intends to develop,
                                   property after it has been divided.
                                   A subdivision lot which has access from an
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT:               interior subdivision street and also abuts
                                   the right-of-way of a collector or arterial
                                   street along the rear lot line.
 
              The area of land set aside or over with a liberty, privilege or advantage in
              land without profit, existing separate from the ownership of the land, is
EASEMENT:     granted to the public, a part of the public, a person(s), or an organization.
              Such liberty, privilege or advantage may be in the way to provide vehicular or
              pedestrian access, park access, the provision of private and public utilities,
              etc.
EXCAVATION:   Either the removal of earth from its natural position, or the cavity resulting
              from the removal of earth.
              Earth materials used either as a manmade deposit or to raise an existing grade
FILL:         and shall mean the depth or volume of such material. The reference for a fill
              is the distance from a survey elevation stake to a required higher adjacent
              elevation.
FINAL PLAT:   A map and supporting documents, prepared in accordance with the provisions of
              this title and prepared for recording in the office of the county recorder.
FRONTAGE:     The portion of a lot which fronts on a dedicated right-of-way or street.
              Either an excavation or fill, or the act of excavating or filling of soil or
GRADING:      gravel material prior to landscaping or the installation of concrete or paving,
              or other required final surfacing material.
              Curbs, gutters, sidewalks, gradings, paving, landscaping, water, sewer and
IMPROVEMENTS: power systems, drainage systems, fences, public facilities, amenities and other
              such requirements of this title.
              Elements of a subdivision development defined under “improvements” that are
              constructed by the developer and dedicated to the City, or another form of
IMPROVEMENTS, government, for the benefit of the general public and continual care of the
PUBLIC:       City or form of government to which the improvements are dedicated. Public
              improvements include but are not limited to public utilities, streets, curb and
              gutter, sidewalk and any landscaped open space and structures therein that will
              be dedicated to the City for future public use and maintenance by the City.
 
LAND USE TITLE: Title 11 of this code.
                A parcel of real property shown as a delineated parcel of
LOT:            land with a number and designation on the final plat of a
                subdivision recorded in the office of the county recorder.
LOT LINE        Relocation of a lot line between adjoining lots or a lot
ADJUSTMENT:     and parcels within a platted subdivision.
                A permanent survey marker established by the county
                surveyor and shown on a final plat with the state plane
MONUMENT:       coordinates, and/or a survey marker set in accordance with
                the City Engineer’s specifications and refenced to county
                survey monuments.
                Any fence that significantly impedes the traversing or
NON-CLIMBABLE   crossing of the fence by means of material or design. A
FENCE:          non-climbable fence does not include any chain link fence
                whether or not barbed wire is provided.
                Includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean
OWNER:          either a person, firm, association, partnership, private
                corporation, public or quasi-public corporation, or any
                combination thereof.
                A portion of real property with the dimension or boundaries
                of which are defined by record in the office of the county
                recorder described by metes and bounds. A parcel of land is
PARCEL:         typically an unsubdivided portion of real property but may
                be part of a final subdivision plat for the purposes of
                designating the real property separate from lots described
                within the subdivision.
                A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining parcels of
PARCEL LINE     land, not located within a platted subdivision, adjusting
ADJUSTMENT:     the mutual line, either by deed or by a parcel line
                agreement.
 
 
PLANNING    The Clearfield City Planning Commission.
COMMISSION:
PRELIMINARY A map and supporting documents, prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
PLAT:       title for the purposes of preliminary review prior to the development of a final plat.
PUBLIC      An agreement between Clearfield City and Subdivider/Developer obligating funds for the
IMPROVEMENT purpose of guaranteeing the completion of public improvements required by code and/or
GUARANTEE   the warranty of said public improvements. Timelines for the performance of work and
AGREEMENT:  warranty period are established within the agreement along with penalties and
            procedures for the use of the guarantee funds by the City if necessary.
PUBLIC      Utilities such as culinary or secondary water, sewer, storm drainage system, natural
UTILITY:    gas, electric power, cable television, telephone, fiberoptic, etc.
REVIEW      As defined in Utah State Code section 10-9a-604.2, a review cycle means the occurrence
CYCLE:      of:
           A.   The applicant’s (subdivider’s) submittal of a complete subdivision land use
            application.
           B.   The municipality’s review of that subdivision land use application.
           C.   The municipality’s response to that subdivision land use application, in
            accordance with this section (10-9a-604.2); and
            D.   The applicant’s (subdivider’s) reply to the municipality’s response that
           addresses each of the municipality’s required modifications or request for additional
            information.
 
 
                   The rise or fall in elevation along a line perpendicular to
                   the contours of the land connecting the highest point of
                   land to the lowest point of land within a lot. (Ex. A
SLOPE:             vertical rise of one hundred feet (100') between two (2)
                   points one hundred feet (100') apart measured on a
                   horizontal plane is a one hundred percent (100%) grade or a
                   one to one (1:1) slope).
STREET:            A right-of-way for the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian
                   traffic.
                   A street, existing or proposed, of significant continuity
STREET, ARTERIAL:  which is the main means of access and connection within and
                   between communities in the region.
                   A street, existing or proposed, of considerable continuity
STREET, COLLECTOR: which is the main means of access to the regional street
                   system.
                   A street, existing or proposed which is supplementary to a
STREET, LOCAL:     collector or arterial street which serves or is intended to
                   serve the local needs of a neighborhood.
                   A street, existing or proposed, which has been reserved by
                   dedication unto the subdivider or lot owners, to be used as
STREET, PRIVATE:   private access to serve the lots platted within the
                   subdivision and complying with the adopted street cross
                   section standards of the City and maintained by the
                   subdivider or other private agency.
                   Any person who: a) having an interest in land, causes it,
                   directly or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision ;
                   or who b) directly or indirectly, sells, leases, or
                   develops, or offers to sell, lease, or develop, or
                   advertises for sale, lease or development, any interest,
SUBDIVIDER:        lot, parcel, site, unit, or plat in a subdivision; or who c)
                   engages directly, or through an agent, in the business of
                   selling, leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease, or
                   development a subdivision; or who d) is directly or
                   indirectly controlled by, or under direct, or indirect
                   common control with any of the foregoing.
 
             As defined in title 10, chapter 9, Utah State Code, “means any land that is
             divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into two or more lots or other
SUBDIVISION: division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
             lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
             plans, terms, and conditions.”
SUBDIVISION  As defined in title 10, chapter 9, of Utah State Code, “means an amendment to a
AMENDMENT:   recorded subdivision in accordance with Section 10-9a-608", and prepared in
             accordance with the provisions of this title, that:
            A.   Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
            B.   Alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
            C.   Changes the number of lots within the subdivision;
            D.   Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure
             within the subdivision; or
            E.   Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
             Culinary or secondary water, sewer, storm drainage system, natural gas, electric
UTILITIES:   power, cable television, telephone, fiberoptic, and other services deemed to be
             of public utility nature by the City. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
 
12-1-4: NECESSITY OF SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   Terms: Any division of real property within the City is subject to the
terms of this title. The division of real property includes the sale, gift,
transfer, conveyances, split or other division that results in changing the
boundaries or legal descriptions of a given parcel of real property and results
in the creation of a new parcel of real property.
   B.   Unlawful Subdivision: No person or entity shall subdivide any tract or
parcel of land which is located wholly or in part within the limits of the
City, nor shall any person or entity sell, exchange, offer for sale, purchase
or offer to purchase, or gift any subdivided parcel of land unless there shall
first be recorded a subdivision plat of such land which has been prepared and
recorded in compliance with the requirements of this title.
      1.   A parcel of real property is subdivided when it is divided into two
(2) or more parts for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or
building development.
      2.   Any person or entity desiring to develop real property that has been
subdivided illegally must comply with the requirements of this title before
developing the property, regardless of whether the person or entity was the
illegal subdivider.
      3.   Exemptions from plat requirements shall only be allowed as provided
in Utah State code and may be processed as outlined in this Title.
   C.   City Approval of Modifications: It is unlawful to amend, vacate, alter
or modify any plat which has been approved and recorded, without first
obtaining City approval for the amended, vacated, altered, or modified plat.
(Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-1-5: GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The subdivider shall prepare a plat(s) and plans consistent with the
standards contained herein and shall pay for the design, construction and
inspection of the public improvements required. The City shall process said
plat(s) and plans in accordance with the regulations set forth herein. The
subdivider may not alter the terrain or remove any vegetation from the proposed
subdivision site or engage in any site development until subdivider has
obtained the necessary approvals as outlined herein. The subdivider is
responsible to obtain and be familiar with all applicable ordinance rules and
standards of the City.
   B.   The Community Development Director or designee shall review the plat(s)
and plans for vehicular and pedestrian design; for conformity with the general
plan and Title 11 of this code; for the environmental quality of the
subdivision design and shall process the subdivision plat(s) and plans as
provided for in this title.
   C.   Plats and/or plans of proposed subdivisions may be referred by the
Community Development Director or designee to any City departments, special
service districts, governmental boards or bureaus, utility companies, and other
agencies which will provide public and private facilities and services to the
subdivision for their information and comment.
   D.   The City Engineer or designee shall review the plat(s) and plans with
specifications to determine if the proposed City-required improvements are
consistent with this title and other applicable ordinances, Clearfield City
Public Works Standards, and shall be responsible for inspecting the City-
required improvements. Review of street layout and lot design shall be
coordinated between the City Engineer and the Community Development Department.
   E.   The City Engineer or designee shall review the engineering plans and
specifications for the public improvements.
   F.   The Planning Commission shall act as the administrative land use
authority to review and approve preliminary subdivision plats and plans with
relation to the code requirements and design standards for public improvements.
The Planning Commission shall review the subdivision for conformance to the
general plan and Title 11 of this code. The Planning Commission shall review
preliminary subdivision plats in accordance to the standards outlined in
chapter
12-4  of this title.
   G.   The Community Development Director or designee and the City Engineer or
designee shall review and make recommendations to the Planning Commission on
preliminary subdivision plats and improvement plans. The Community Development
Director shall act as the administrative land use authority on final
subdivision plats with the assistance of the City Engineer. The final
subdivision plat review shall be in accordance to the standards outlined in
chapter
12-5  of this title.
   H.   The City Attorney shall verify that the subdivider dedication land for
use of the public is the owner of record, that the land is free and clear of
unacceptable encumbrances according to the title report submitted by the
subdivider, and may review other matters which may affect the City’s interests.
   I.   The Mayor may sign, as a non-discretionary and ministerial act, final
subdivision plats for the acceptance of lands and public improvements that may
be proposed for dedication to the City. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-1-6: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person or entity to subdivide a tract or parcel of
land which is located wholly or in part in the City except in compliance with
this title.
      1.   Plat Approval Required: A plat of any subdivision may not be
recorded until it has been approved by the City as herein provided.
      2.   Plat Must Not Conflict with Plans, Ordinances or Laws: A preliminary
plat shall not be approved by the Planning Commission, or a final plat shall
not be approved by the Community Development Director or designee if either
party determines that such plat to be in conflict with any provision or portion
of the general plan, Title 11 of this code, this title, and any other state law
or City ordinance.
      3.   Adequate and Available Public Utilities: The City may deny or delay
approval of a development project if there is not adequate capacity or
availability of public utilities for a proposed development.
   B.   Land may not be transferred or sold, nor shall a building permit be
issued for a structure thereon, until a final plat of a subdivision has been
recorded in accordance with this title and any applicable provisions of state
law, and until the improvements required in connection with the subdivision
have been installed or guaranteed as provided herein.
   C.   All lots or parcels located within a subdivision are subject to this
title whether the tract of land is owned by the subdivider or a subsequent
purchaser, transferee, devisee, or contract purchaser of the land. (Ord. 2024-
01, 6-13-2023)
12-1-7: ZONING:
If a rezone of the property is required, an application for the zoning map
amendment shall be made and approved prior to the receipt of a subdivision
application. All subdivision applications shall comply with the development
standards of the underlying zone and all applicable development standards of
Title 11. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-1-8: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
Similar to a rezone, if a development agreement is required or is part of the
development of any land within the City, the agreement shall be approved and
executed by the City and the subdivider/applicant prior to the receipt of a
subdivision application. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-1-9: CONCEPT PLAN/DEVELOPMENT REVIEW:
At the request of the subdivider, a concept plan review or development review
of a proposed subdivision may be scheduled with Community Development Staff,
the City Engineer, and any other City or agency staff necessary to aide the
subdivider in the planning of a proposed subdivision. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-1-10: ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY:
The Clearfield City Planning Commission shall act as the administrative land
use authority on all matters pertaining to the preliminary subdivision plat.
The Community Development Director or designee along with the City Engineer or
designee and other departments or agencies as deemed necessary, shall act as
the administrative land use authority on all matters pertaining to the final
subdivision plat and final approval of the subdivision. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-
2023)
12-1-11: MODIFICATIONS; PERMITTED WHEN; PETITION FROM SUBDIVIDER:
Whenever the land involved in any proposed subdivision is of such size or
shape, or is subject to such title limitations of record, or is affected by
such topographical location or conditions or is to be devoted to such use that
it is impossible, impractical or undesirable in a particular case for the
subdivider fully to comply with the regulations contained in this title, the
Community Development Staff and City Engineer may recommend that the Planning
Commission permit such modifications as may be reasonably necessary if such
modifications are in conformity with the spirit and purpose of this title,
applicable land use regulations, the general plan, and will not be detrimental
to the public welfare or safety, or injurious to other property in the
territory in which the property is situated. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-1-12: PENALTY:
Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty of a
class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction of any such violation, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 2
EXEMPTIONS FROM PLAT; PARCEL AND LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Purpose
12-2-2:    Parcel Line Adjustments
12-2-3:    Lot Line Adjustments
12-2-4:    Boundary Line Agreements
12-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to outline the requirements and procedures for
parcel line adjustments ,lot line adjustments, and boundary line agreements in
accordance with Utah State Code and local land use regulations. The intent of
this chapter is to allow for owners of real property to adjust common property
lines while minimizing delay and expense without the need of a subdivision
plat. With compliance with the following procedures, a subdivider application
may be exempted from the requirement to produce and record a subdivision plat.
Exemptions from the plat requirements that are not outlined herein shall follow
the procedures established in State Code sections 10-9a-605 “Exemptions form
plat requirement” and 10-9a-608 “Subdivision amendments”. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-
2023)
12-2-2: PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Approval Required: Prior to the recording of a parcel line adjustment
between adjoining properties not located within a platted subdivision, the
adjustment must first be approved by the Community Development Director or
designee and the City Engineer or designee if any of the properties involved
includes a dwelling unit.
      1.   Exemption: Approval is not required prior to recording of a parcel
line adjustment if the properties involved do not contain any structure and is
vacant land.
   B.   Review: Application and the review of a proposed parcel line adjustment
shall follow the procedures listed below:
      1.   Application: A subdivider, either an owner of one of the properties
or a representative of the owners, shall submit a complete application which
shall include:
         a.   Property owner(s) affidavit acknowledging the consent of each
party for the proposed adjustment;
         b.   Property survey(s) with all existing improvements to the
properties;
         c.   A legal description of the proposed parcel line and of each
parcel after the boundary line is changed;
         d.   A site plan or exhibit serving as a visual depiction of the
parcel line adjustment;
         e.   Any necessary improvement plans, agreements, or additional
materials needed for review as determined by the Community Development
Director, City Engineer, or designees.
      2.   Review Procedure: Upon receipt and payment of a complete
application, the Community Development Director or designee and the City
Engineer or designee shall commence the review of the parcel line adjustment
request. The review shall be completed, with a written response returned to the
subdivider, within fourteen (14) business days from the date of complete
application. The reviewing parties shall review the adjustment for compliance
with City zoning and public works standards.
      3.   Final Approval: If the proposed parcel line adjustment is in
compliance with all City ordinances and development standards, written approval
shall be provided to the subdivider by the Community Development Director or
designee.
   C.   Final Approval: If the proposed parcel line adjustment is in compliance
with all City ordinances and development standards, written approval shall be
provided to the subdivider by the Community Development Director or designee.
   D.   Recording: Upon final approval from the Community Development Director
or designee, the subdivider shall record the approved documents at the office
of the Davis County Recorder to complete the parcel line adjustment. The parcel
line adjustment may be completed by a quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement
and shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   The written notice of approval of the parcel line adjustment by
Clearfield City that recites the legal descriptions of both the original
parcels and the parcels resulting from the exchange of title;
      2.   The approved site plan or exhibit depicting the new parcel
boundaries and adjacent properties if deemed necessary; and
      3.   Any other documents deemed necessary as part of the parcel line
adjustment approval.
   E.   All parcel line adjustments shall comply with applicable state code
regulations found under sections 10-9a-523 (property boundary adjustment) and
10-9a-524 (boundary line agreement). A parcel line adjustment shall follow the
procedures provided herein unless excepted from local land use authority review
as provided in the forementioned state code sections. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-2-3: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Approval Required: Prior to the recording of a lot line adjustment
between adjoining properties within a platted subdivision, the adjustment must
first be approved by the Community Development Director or designee and the
City Engineer or designee.
   B.   Review: Application and the review of a proposed lot line adjustment
shall follow the procedures listed below:
      1.   Application: A subdivider, either an owner of one of the properties
or a representative of the owners, shall submit a complete application which
shall include:
         a.   Property owner(s) affidavit acknowledging the consent of each
party for the proposed adjustment between the lots;
         b.   Property survey(s) with all existing improvements to the lots and
reference to the subdivision within which the properties are located including
easements located on the lots;
         c.   A legal description of each of the proposed lots after the lot
line is changed including any changes to platted easements associated with the
lots;
         d.   A site plan or exhibit serving as a visual depiction of the lot
line adjustment. Although not a plat, the site plan or exhibit shall
sufficiently represent the new lots and include adjacent lots within the
subdivision;
         e.   Any necessary improvement plans, agreements, or additional
materials needed for review as determined by the Community Development
Director, City Engineer, or designees.
      2.   Review Procedure: Upon receipt and payment of a complete
application, the Community Development Director or designee and the City
Engineer or designee shall commence the review of the parcel line adjustment
request. The review shall be completed, with a written response returned to the
subdivider, within fourteen (14) business days from the date of complete
application. The reviewing parties shall review the adjustment for compliance
with City zoning and public works standards.
   C.   Final Approval: If the proposed lot line adjustment is in compliance
with all City ordinances and development standards, written approval shall be
provided to the subdivider by the Community Development Director or designee.
   D.   Recording: Upon final approval from the Community Development Director
or designee, the subdivider shall record the approved documents at the office
of the Davis County Recorder to complete the lot line adjustment. The lot line
adjustment may be completed by a quitclaim deed and shall be accompanied by the
following:
      1.   The written notice of approval of the lot line adjustment by
Clearfield City that recites the legal descriptions of both the original lots
and the lots resulting from the exchange of title;
      2.   The approved site plan or exhibit depicting the new lot boundaries
along with adjacent lots within the subdivision; and
      3.   Any other documents deemed necessary as part of the lot line
adjustment approval.
   E.   All lot line adjustments shall comply with applicable state code
regulations found under section 10-9a-608 (5). A lot line adjustment shall
follow the procedures provided herein unless an amended plat is required per
state statute. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-2-4: BOUNDARY LINE AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Approval Required: Prior to the recording of a boundary line agreement
between adjoining properties the agreement must first be approved by the
Community Development Director or designee and the City Engineer or designee if
either of the adjoining properties contain a dwelling unit. If neither of the
adjoining properties contain a dwelling unit, then the procedures outlined in
State Code for boundary line agreements shall be followed.
   B.   Review: Application and the review of a proposed boundary line
agreement shall follow the procedures listed below:
      1.   Application: The adjacent property owners, or a representative of
the owners, shall submit a complete application which shall include:
         a.   Property owner(s) affidavit acknowledging the consent of each
party for the proposed boundary line agreement;
         b.   Property survey(s) with all existing improvements to the
properties and easements located on the properties;
         c.   A legal description of each of the proposed properties after the
boundary line agreement is recorded including any changes to easements
associated with the properties;
         d.   A site plan or exhibit serving as a visual depiction of the
boundary line agreement;
         e.   Any necessary improvement plans, agreements, or additional
materials needed for review as determined by the Community Development
Director, City Engineer, or designees.
      2.   Review Procedure: Upon receipt and payment of a complete
application, the Community Development Director or designee and the City
Engineer or designee shall commence the review of the boundary line agreement
request. The review shall be completed, with a written response returned to the
property owners or representative(s), within fourteen (14) business days from
the date of a complete application. City Staff shall review the agreement for
compliance with City zoning and public works standards.
   C.   Final Approval: If the proposed boundary line agreement is in
compliance with all City ordinances and development standards, written approval
shall be provided to the property owners or representative(s) by the Community
Development Director or designee.
   D.   Recording: Upon final approval from the Community Development Director
or designee, the property owners or representative(s) shall record the approved
documents at the office of the Davis County Recorder for the boundary line
agreement. The boundary line agreement may be completed by a quitclaim deed and
shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   The written notice of approval of the boundary line agreement by
Clearfield City;
      2.   The approved site plan or exhibit depicting the new property
boundaries; and
      3.   Any other documents deemed necessary as part of the boundary line
agreement approval.
   E.   All boundary line agreements shall comply with applicable state code
regulations found under section 10-9a-524. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 3
PRELIMINARY PLATS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Purpose
12-3-2:    Application
12-3-3:    Preliminary Plat Submittal
12-3-4:    Initial Review of Application
12-3-5:    Planning Commission Review
12-3-6:    Preliminary Plat Remains Effective
12-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the preliminary plat is to require formal preliminary review of
a subdivision by the Planning Commission as provided herein in order to minimum
changes and revisions on the final plat. The preliminary plat and all
information and procedures relating thereto shall in all respects be in
compliance with the provisions of this title, the general plan, and any other
applicable City ordinances. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-3-2: APPLICATION:
The subdivider of a subdivision, after completing a concept/development review
(if chosen), shall file an application for preliminary plat approval with the
Community Development Department on a form prescribed by the City, together
with on digital set of the preliminary plat and subdivision improvement plans.
An application may not be forwarded to or scheduled before the Planning
Commission until all required information has been received by the City and the
application is determined complete. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMITTAL:
A preliminary plat and subdivision improvement plans shall be prepared, stamped
and signed by a professional engineer licensed by the State of Utah. The
preliminary plat submittal shall include the following information in
accordance with Clearfield City Public Works Standards:
   A.   Preliminary Plat:
   B.   Grading and drainage plan:
   C.   Utility Plan:
   D.   The subdivider shall provide the following documents with the
application:
      1.   Geotechnical soils report prepared within the last six (6) months
from the date of application in accordance with Clearfield City Public Works
Standards;
      2.   A traffic study when required by the Community Development Director
or designee or the City Engineer or designee;
      3.   Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding
storm drainage, utility provisions, access, or other matters pertinent to
subdivision approval;
      4.   Preliminary or ‘not for construction’ stamp.
   E.   The subdivider shall comply with all federal, state, and local laws and
regulations, and shall provide evidence of such compliance if requested by the
City. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-3-4: INITIAL REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Timeline: The initial review of a preliminary plat application shall be
completed by the Community Development Director or designee and the City
Engineer or designee along with any other necessary departments or local
agencies no later than fifteen (15) business days after the day on which a
complete application has been submitted.
   B.   Written Response: Upon completion of the initial review by the City and
local agencies as deemed necessary, the Community Development Director or
designee shall provide a written response to the subdivider of all the comments
provided by the reviewers of the plat and improvement plans. The comments may
be compiled in one written document or within separate written documents from
the respective representatives: i.e., Community Development Director or
designee, City Engineer or designee, North Davis Fire District, North Davis
Sewer District, etc. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-3-5: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
   A.   Review: The Planning Commission shall review the submitted preliminary
plat and determine compliance with the standards and criteria set forth in this
title and all other ordinances of the City, including, but not limited to,
Title 11 of this code and the general plan. The Planning Commission shall
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the submitted preliminary plat.
   B.   Denial Permitted, Conditions of Denial: If denied, the Planning
Commission shall make findings specifying an inadequacy in the application,
such as noncompliance with City regulations, questionable or undesirable design
and/or engineering. A denial of a preliminary subdivision plat may only be made
if conditions cannot be applied to the plat that will result in compliance with
City regulations. A denial of an application is unlawful if based upon opinion,
public clamor, or reasons that are not based upon fact or that cannot be
addressed with additional study or analysis such as a traffic impact study.
   C.   Preliminary Plat Approval: Completion of preliminary plan review and
approval by the Planning Commission does not constitute final subdivision plat
approval, and does not create any vested rights for the subdivider.
   D.   Lot Threshold: Preliminary subdivision plat review is required for all
subdivisions that exceed four (4) lots. Subdivisions that have four (4) or
fewer lots may proceed directly to final subdivision plat review without a
preliminary subdivision review conducted by the Planning Commission. Any
subdivision that includes a flag lot, shall follow the procedures for
preliminary and final subdivision plat review and shall not be excepted from
the preliminary plat approval process under this provision. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-
13-2023)
12-3-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT REMAINS EFFECTIVE:
   A.   Effective Preliminary Plat Duration: A completed preliminary plat must
be submitted for final approval within one (1) year from the date of the
Planning Commission meeting at which the preliminary plat is approved. The
Community Development Director or designee may grant a one (1) year extension
if the plat complies with all applicable ordinances the extension is sought and
has not been altered in a way that would necessitate a new preliminary plat
review by the Planning Commission. The extension must be requested prior to the
preliminary plat expiration. If a preliminary subdivision plat expires, a new
preliminary subdivision plat application must be submitted for review and
approval prior to final subdivision plat review and approval.
   B.   Plat Phasing: If a subdivision is proposed to be in phases, preliminary
plat approval for the remaining portions of the subdivision shall not be voided
if final plat for the first or initial phases is approved and recorded within
one (1) year of the date of preliminary plat approval. The validity of the
remaining phase(s) of the preliminary plat shall be extended for one (1) year
from the date of the recording of the final plat.
   C.   Lot Increases; Street Changes: The preliminary plat shall be amended if
the developer desires to increase the number of lots in the subdivision or
change the grade or location of the streets within the subdivision. The amended
preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission for approval
prior to advancing to a final plat.
   D.   Lot Decreases: Minor Changes: The preliminary plat need not be amended
to decrease the number of lots in the subdivision, to make minor lot boundary
changes, or to make other minor changes if the Community Development Director
or designee and the City Engineer or designee find that amending the plat is
not necessary to protect the interest of the City or adjoining property owners.
(Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 4
FINAL PLATS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Purpose
12-4-2:    Application Comprehensive
12-4-3:    Final Plat Submittal
12-4-4:    Review Procedure And Review Cycles
12-4-5:    Approval Of Plat; Recording
12-4-6:    Acceptance Of Offers Of Dedication By Mayor
12-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the final plat is to require formal final review of a
subdivision by the City Staff as provided herein in order to assure compliance
with code standards and conditions of the preliminary plat approval. The final
plat and all information and procedures relating thereto shall in all respects
be in compliance with the provisions of this title, the general plan, and any
other applicable City ordinances. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-4-2: APPLICATION:
The subdivider of a subdivision, after obtaining preliminary plat approval,
shall file an application for final plat approval with the Community
Development Department on a form prescribed by the City, together with one (1)
digital set of the final plat and subdivision improvement plans. The review of
a final plat application will not commence until all required information has
been received by the City and the application is determined complete. (Ord.
2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-4-3: FINAL PLAT SUBMITTAL:
A preliminary plat and subdivision improvement plans shall be prepared, stamped
and signed by a professional engineer licensed by the State of Utah. The final
plat submittal shall include the following information in accordance with
Clearfield City Public Works Standards:
   A.   Final Plat (all facilities within 100 feet of the plat shall be shown);
   B.   Grading and drainage plan;
   C.   Utility Plan;
   D.   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in accordance with
Clearfield City Public Works Standards;
   E.   The subdivider shall provide the following documents with the
application:
      1.   Geotechnical soils report prepared within the last six (6) months
from the date of application in accordance with Clearfield City Public Works
Standards;
      2.   A traffic study when required by the Community Development Director
or designee or the City Engineer or designee;
      3.   Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding
storm drainage, utility provisions, access, or other matters pertinent to
subdivision approval;
      4.   Maintenance agreements for privately-owned storm drain systems,
water lines, and sewer lines serving the subdivision.
   F.   The subdivider shall comply with all federal, state, and local laws and
regulations, and shall provide evidence of such compliance if requested by the
City. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-4-4: REVIEW PROCEDURE AND REVIEW CYCLES:
   A.   Timeline: The review of a final plat application shall be completed by
the Community Development Director or designee and the City Engineer or
designee along with any other necessary departments or local agencies no later
than twenty (20) business days after the day on which a complete application
has been submitted.
   B.   Written Response: Upon completion of the review by the City and local
agencies as deemed necessary, the Community Development Director or designee
shall provide a written response to the subdivider of all the comments provided
by the reviewers of the plat and improvement plans. The comments may be
compiled in one written document or within separate written documents from the
respective representatives: i.e., Community Development Director or designee,
City Engineer or designee, North Davis Fire District, North Davis Sewer
District, etc.
   C.   Subdivider Response: Upon receipt of the City review comments, the
subdivider shall have corrections or changes made to adequately address the
review comments. The subdivider shall provide a written response to the
comments that indicates how each comment has been addressed on the revised plan
set. The subdivider shall submit the written response along with the revised
plan set and any other necessary documents such as a geotechnical soils report
or an environmental assessment to the Community Development Director or
designee for review.
      1.   Review Cycles: The City shall not require more than four (4) review
cycles of the final subdivision plat prior to granting approval in accordance
with Utah State Code section 10-9a-604.2. If the subdivider fails to address a
review comment in the written response and within the revised plans, the review
cycle is not complete and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all
comments are addressed. A review cycle shall be considered complete when: A
complete subdivision land use application is submitted in accordance with
section
12-4-3  of this title. A review cycle is considered complete with the
following:
         a.   The City’s review of the subdivision land use application;
         b.   The City’s response to the subdivision land use application is
provided to the subdivider;
         c.   The subdivider’s reply/resubmittal to the City’s response
including a written response to each of the City’s required modifications or
requests for additional information.
   D.   Appeal Process: If the City fails to respond within twenty (20)
business days of the fourth or final review, then upon request of the property
owner, and within ten business days after the request for an appeal panel is
received, the City shall assemble an appeal panel to review and approve or deny
the final revised set of plans. The appeal panel shall include: one licensed
engineer designated by the City, one licensed engineer designated by the
subdivider, and one licensed engineer, agreed upon, and designated by the two
designated engineers. The subdivider is responsible for the cost of the hours
and review time of the two designated engineers. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-4-5: APPROVAL OF PLAT; RECORDING:
   A.   Final approvals; Recording: After final approval is granted by the
City, the subdivider shall have the final subdivision plat printed on mylar and
delivered to the Community Development Director or designee for signatures by
the City Engineer, the Planning Commission Chair, the Mayor, and the City
Attorney. Prior to delivering the mylar plat to the City the subdivider shall
have completed the owner’s dedication, surveyor certificate, and any other
necessary signatures from private or public utility companies, or affected
entities identified in the review process. The final plat, bearing all official
approvals shall be filed by the Community Development Director or designee for
recording, at the expense of the subdivider, of the subdivision plat in the
office of the Davis County Recorder. No construction or building of any
habitable structures shall begin until after the recording of the final plat.
   B.   Recording Required Prior to Sales: No lots included in a final plat
shall be sold or exchanged unless and until the plat is so approved, signed and
accepted by the City and recorded with the office of the Davis County Recorder.
   C.   Alteration of Plat Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
change the lines, drawings, lot sizes or shapes, or any other provision of a
plat after it has received final approval. Any plat that is changed in
violation of this subsection is void and the City may require the withdrawal of
the plat from the office of the Davis County Recorder for recording, or the
City may file a notice, with the County Recorder that the recordation of the
plat is void. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-4-6: ACCEPTANCE OF OFFERS OF DEDICATION BY MAYOR:
Before a final plat may be recorded in the office of the Davis County Recorder,
the Mayor shall perform the non-discretionary and ministerial act of signing
the plat solely to accept offers of dedication and for acknowledgment of the
subdivision with the City. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 5
AMENDED PLATS
SECTION:
12-5-1:    Amended Plat Required
12-5-2:    Public Hearing Required
12-5-3:    Application; Submittal; Planning Commission Review
12-5-4:    Approval Of Plat; Recording
12-5-1: AMENDED PLAT REQUIRED:
After a plat has been approved by the City and recorded in the office of the
Davis County Recorder, any changes to lot lines, sizes, shapes, easements,
streets, rights-of-way or any publicly dedicated portions of the plat, that
either adds or subtracts from the total lots on the subdivision shall only be
allowed if reviewed and approved by the City with an amended plat. Minor
adjustments to a recorded subdivision plat that can be addressed under the
standards for lot line adjustments shall adhere to those standards and are
exempt from the amended plat requirement. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-5-2: PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:
A public hearing shall be held in the instance that an amended plat meets one
of the following:
   A.   A public hearing for an amended plat shall be held if the amended plat
includes the vacation, alteration, or amendment of public street or alley,
right-of-way, easement, or any public property in any other form.
   B.   In accordance with Utah State Code subsection 10-9a-608 (1)(d), A
public hearing shall also be held if any owner within the plat notifies the
City of the owner’s objection in writing withing 10 days of the application, or
if a public hearing is required because all of the owners in the subdivision
have not signed the revised plat (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-5-3: APPLICATION; SUBMITTAL; PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
Applications and the submittal for an amended plat shall follow the same
process as established for final subdivision plats outlined in Section
12-4-3  of this title. The Planning Commission shall review each application to
amend a recorded final plat and approve the request if the amended plat
complies with the standards outlined within Titles 11 and 12 of Clearfield City
Code. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing for any amended plat
that includes the changes outlined under Section
12-5-2  of this title. The review cycle and recording for an amended plat shall
follow the process for a final plat outlined in Sections
12-4-4  of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-5-4: APPROVAL OF PLAT; RECORDING:
The approval, recording, and limitations of alterations to the amended plat
shall follow the standards outlined in Section
12-4-5  of this Title. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN STANDARDS AND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Preparation Of Standards, Rules, And Regulations
12-6-2:    General Requirements
12-6-3:    Lots And Parcels
12-6-4:    Street Design, Layout, And Access
12-6-5:    Streets And Stub Streets
12-6-6:    Curb, Gutter, Park Strip And Sidewalk
12-6-7:    Protection Strip Not Allowed
12-6-8:    Public Utility Easements
12-6-9:    Utilities Required
12-6-10: Utilities To Be Underground
12-6-11: Storm Water
12-6-12: Ditches
12-6-13: Inspections
12-6-14: Engineering And Design Standards
12-6-15: Parks, Schools, And Other Public Places
12-6-16: Trails
12-6-17: Hazardous Areas To Be Fenced
12-6-18: Street Lighting
12-6-19: Street Trees
12-6-20: Floodplain Requirements
12-6-21: Improvements: As-Built Plan Filed On Completion
12-6-22: Development Activity Prior To Plat Recording
12-6-23: Improvements Completion Assurance, Guarantee Of Performance, And
Direct Costs
12-6-24: Development Activity After Plat Recording
12-6-1: PREPARATION OF STANDARDS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS:
The City Engineer shall prepare or have prepared, standards for design,
construction, specifications, and mandatory inspection of street improvements,
curbs and gutters, sewers, sidewalks, street signs, surface and subsurface
drainage facilities, water distribution facilities, fire hydrants, sewage
disposal facilities and all other public improvements. These standards, rules
and regulations and any amendments thereto shall be known as the “Clearfield
Development, Design, and Construction Standards” and may be referred to as the
“Clearfield Public Works Standards” or “Standards” and shall govern the
construction and installation of public improvements within the City. (Ord.
2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All improvements and infrastructure related to a Subdivision shall be
installed according to the requirements of the Clearfield City Code, the
Clearfield Public Works Standards, and all other applicable federal, state or
other local regulations.
   B.   The Subdivider shall be responsible for extending all utilities and
improvements and infrastructure to the Subdivision if they are not already
adjacent to or on the site including all elements of a street such as pavement,
utilities, curb, gutter, and sidewalk on streets operated by the City or the
Utah Department of Transportation.
   C.   When connecting to aging infrastructure there may be situations where
replacement of the existing infrastructure is required as determined by the
City. When the City is to take ownership of public infrastructure and
improvements, the City shall require the Subdivider to install such
improvements in a manner that does not cause excessive liability or maintenance
costs for the City at the convenience or advantage of the Subdivider. (Ord.
2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-3: LOTS AND PARCELS:
The lot and parcel design of properties within a subdivision shall comply with
the following standards:
   A.   Minimum Area, Width and Frontage: The minimum area, width, and frontage
dimensions of all lots shall conform to the requirements of Title 11 of City
Code for the zone in which the subdivision is located. In calculating the lot
area for purposes of this Title and Title 11, the square footage of any street,
whether public or private shall not be included.
   B.   Side Lot Lines: The side lines of all lots, so far as possible, shall
be designed to be at right angles to the street (whether public or private)
which the lot faces, or approximately radial to the center of curvatures, if
such street is curved. Side lines of cul-de-sac lots shall be designed to be
approximately radial to the center of the curvature of the turnaround.
   C.   Corner Lots: Corner lots have more than one side which must maintain a
required setback, and therefore shall be platted wider than interior lots in
order to permit conformance with the required setback requirements of Title 11.
   D.   Flag Lots: Flag lots shall comply with the development standards of
Section
11-13-9  “Flag Lots” of City Code.
   E.   Buildable Lots: All subdivisions shall result in the creation of lots
which comply with applicable regulations established in Title 11. A subdivision
may not create lots which would make improvements and services impractical due
to size, shape, steepness of terrain, location of water bodies, problems with
sewerage, driveway grades, or other physical conditions. Only common area
parcels or lots used for open space or pedestrian ways may be of irregular
shape. All lots that are to contain a dwelling unit shall be a buildable lot as
described herein.
   F.   Remainder Parcels: Remainder parcels shall only be permitted as
follows:
      1.   May be used for agricultural purposes but shall not be eligible for
habitation, commercial uses, or primary structures; and
      2.   Shall not be eligible for building permits and shall not be eligible
for other permitted uses. All limitations and restrictions shall be clearly
noted on the final plat.
   G.   Unusable Parcels Prohibited: All land within the subdivision shall be
attached to adjacent lots or made part of the common area governed by a
Community/Homeowners Association, rather than allowed to remain as unusable
parcels. The City, at its sole discretion may elect to maintain such common
areas if deemed in the best interest of the City. All remainder parcels shall
comply with the standards of Subsection F.
   H.   Developable Area Limitation: The Administrative Land Use Authority
recommend that all undevelopable portions of proposed lots be identified by
shading and notations upon the final plat. This provision may be invoked to
protect, among other things, natural slopes or vegetation, special natural
topographic features, faults, or visual factors. Lots shall not contain
peculiarly shaped elongations solely to provide necessary square footage or
frontage, which would be unusable for normal purposes.
   I.   Double Frontage Lots: Lots, other than corner lots, having double
frontage may not be approved except where necessitated by topographic,
transportation corridor requirements, or other unusual conditions. Double
frontage lot improvements shall include a masonry wall and related landscape
improvements as follows. This section does not apply to subdivision lots
created by plat which received preliminary approval prior to the effective date
hereof.
      1.   A solid masonry buffer wall is required on the rear lot line of
double frontage lots which abut collector or arterial streets.
      2.   Sidewalk and park strip improvements in accordance with Public Works
Standards are required adjacent to the rear lot line buffer wall of double
frontage lots.
      3.   A subdivision plan may not receive final approval for recording
unless the design plan for the buffer wall and related sidewalk and park strip
improvements have been designed in accordance with Public Works Standards and
approved by the Community Development Department and Public Works Department.
Guarantee and/or warranty of these improvements shall be included with all
other public improvements of the subdivision.
      4.   The masonry buffer wall and related sidewalk and park strip
improvements shall comply with Public Works Standards and the following
criteria:
         a.   The buffer wall shall comply with fencing / clear view standards
of the Title 11;
         b.   The buffer wall shall be constructed of brick, concrete block or
similar masonry materials approved by the Community Development Department;
         c.   Unpaved areas between the inside edge of the sidewalk and the
buffer wall are not permitted; any of these gaps shall be covered by widening
the sidewalk to the edge of the buffer wall;
         d.   The subdivider shall, as a part of the development, install curb
and gutter along the street, along with sleeves underneath the sidewalk to
accommodate sprinkling systems to the park strip;
         e.   Trees shall be provided at the intervals outlined for Street
Trees in Section
12-6-19  of this Title. On corner lots, the first tree nearest the intersection
shall be located forty feet (40') from the intersection. Tree selection shall
be approved by the City Arborist;
         f.   The park strip abutting the collector or arterial street shall
comply with all other regulations of
Chapter 11.21  “Landscaping Standards and Requirements” of City Code;
         g.   The subdivider shall warranty that all required landscaping shall
survive the initial planting season and shall be in a hardy living condition,
as determined by the City Arborist, within one year of the initial planting
season;
         h.   A property owners association or the adjacent property owner
shall maintain the landscaping required for the park strip unless the City
agrees to maintain the landscaping. The City at its discretion may add, remove,
replace, or maintain landscaping within the park strip if the maintenance is
provided by the City. If the subdivider requests City maintenance, the
following standards apply:
            (1)   Acceptance of maintenance shall be based on the determination
that the public interest is best served by City maintenance. The City may
require an additional assessment on the subject properties for ongoing
maintenance;
            (2)   Installation of all landscaping improvements shall be per
City standards outlined in
Chapter 11-21  of City Code;
         (3)   Installation of all landscaping and improvements shall be part
of the public improvements and included in the warranty of said improvements;
         (4)   The subdivider shall maintain the improvements for at least one
year following the construction acceptance by the City, and thereafter until
the City has granted final acceptance for maintenance.
         i.   It shall be unlawful to remove any landscaping required in a park
strip which is required by the provisions of this section of code unless
approved by the Community Development Director. This provision does not apply
to routine maintenance of park strip landscaping such as the mowing, trimming,
or pruning of said landscaping. Landscaping shall comply with the water
efficient landscaping standards of Title 11;
         j.   Along high traffic volume collectors or arterials with limited
access by adjacent property owners, the Administrative Land Use Authority may
grant the use of pavers and/or finished concrete in place of irrigated
landscaping. Street trees are still required to be provided in accordance with
the standards of this Title.
      5.   The Community Development Director or designee may approve minor
modifications to the requirements of this section to better achieve the intent
and address specific site conditions. Upon request by the subdivider, an
alternative landscape plan may be approved if it is determined the proposed
alternative plan accomplishes the purposes of this section equally well or
better than would a plan which complies with the standards of this section.
   J.   For Subdivisions containing more than two (2) residential building
lots, no lots shall directly access an arterial or collector street.
   K.   A lot shall not be divided by a City limit or county limit line. Such
boundary lines shall be made at lot lines. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-4: STREET DESIGN, LAYOUT, AND ACCESS:
The following minimum standards and design criteria shall apply unless deemed
unwarranted by written recommendation of the City Engineer or designee. These
standards and criteria shall be supplemented by other applicable engineering
and construction requirements and standards as specified by the City Engineer.
   A.   General: All streets shall conform, unless otherwise determined by the
City Engineer and Community Development Director, to the adopted General Plan,
Transportation Master Plan, and the Public Works Standards.
   B.   Approval: Overall street layout and access shall be reviewed and
approved as part of the Preliminary Subdivision Plat. At the recommendation of
the City Engineer, the Administrative Land Use Authority shall have authority
to require stub roads, additional access into the development, and adjustments
to the street layout, street cross-sections, and right of way widths. Such
adjustments to the Subdivision plan may be required to provide connectivity
between developments, provide for public safety and emergency access, minimize
public infrastructure maintenance and liability, and align with the General
Plan, the Transportation Master Plan, and the Public Works Standards.
   C.   Street Pattern: The street pattern in the subdivision shall be most
advantageous to the development of adjoining areas and the entire neighborhood
or district. The following design standards shall be adhered to with the
proposed street layout:
      1.   Proposed streets should be continuous and in alignment with existing
planned or platted streets.
      2.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the land
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
or unless, in the opinion of the City Engineer, the road extension is not
desirable for the coordination of the subdivision with the existing layout or
most advantageous to the future development of adjacent land.
      3.   Proposed streets shall intersect other streets as nearly at right
angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit.
      4.   Alleys shall not normally be permitted in residential single-family
subdivisions but may be permitted in multi-family or nonresidential
subdivisions. The allowance of alleys for residential single-family
subdivisions shall be subject to approval by the City Engineer and the
Administrative Land Use Authority.
   D.   Maximum Dwelling Units; Access: Residential subdivisions must have
adequate access to and from streets.
      1.   Single- And Two-Family Dwellings: Any residential subdivision
development of more than thirty (30) single- or two-family dwellings shall have
access to and from at least two (2) existing or proposed (as part of the
subdivision) streets. The total dwelling count shall include all existing,
planned, or vacant lots included in the subdivision.
      2.   Multi-Family Dwellings: Any residential subdivision development of
two hundred (200) or more multi-family dwellings shall have at least two (2)
access points to and from an existing or proposed (as part of the subdivision)
street(s).
      3.   Greater Access Requirements: Access requirements should not be
construed to limit the City’s authority to impose greater access requirements
for residential areas if, in the opinion of the City Engineer or the local Fire
Marshal, the extent of existing and anticipated residential development in a
given area requires additional street access.
      4.   Exceptions: The Administrative Land Use Authority at the
recommendation of the City Engineer may waive these access requirements for
more than thirty (30) single-family residential dwellings with one point of
improved ingress/egress when unique topographic circumstances or “landlocked”
(physically restrained from other access points) from adjacent, existing
developments circumstances exist. A waiver of these regulations may require
additional development requirements to ensure public safety standards are met.
   E.   Private Rights-Of-Way: Private rights-of-way may be used for
development purposes in all zoning districts subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   Private rights-of-way shall be designed and built as per the Public
Works Standard Drawings. For residential subdivisions, roadway Section A is the
default private roadway section to be used. Section B may be used if the
residential units are provided with a minimum twenty foot (20') deep driveway
(excluding the sidewalk) or if a parking area is provided to meet the minimum
parking standards outlined in Title 11 of City Code.
      2.   Shall not be permitted for any portion of road that is contained on
the Clearfield City Transportation Map.
      3.   Private rights-of-way shall not be permitted if the road serves to
connect to other rights-of-way or subdivisions.
      4.   Private rights-of-way shall meet all requirements of the
International Fire Code, Appendix D.
      5.   All development on private rights of way of two (2) lots or more
shall establish a homeowners’ association or similar organization that will be
responsible for the care and maintenance of any common property or utilities. A
complete set of covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) shall outline
the care and maintenance of all private utilities, street improvements and
common spaces. The CC&Rs shall also set forth the funding mechanism for that
maintenance. The CC&Rs shall be recorded and run with the land.
      6.   An easement for all public utilities shall be provided and dedicated
to the City.
      7.   Private Rights-Of-Way; Maintenance: The City shall not be
responsible in any way for maintenance or upkeep of surface improvements for
private rights-of-way and does not guarantee services such as but not limited
to, mail, garbage collection, or snow removal will extend to the residences on
such streets.
   F.   Subdivision Adjacent to Arterials, Highways, or Freeways: Subdivisions
should be designed according to the following guidelines:
      1.   Street design shall have the purpose of making adjacent lots, if for
residential use, desirable for such use by mitigating the impact of heavy
traffic and of minimizing the interference with traffic on arterials;
      2.   The number of intersecting streets along arterials shall be held to
a minimum;
      3.   Frontage roads, if required or existing, shall be separated from the
arterial, highway, or freeway by a strip of permanent landscaping not less than
ten feet (10') wide. A landscaping plan for the strip shall be submitted for
approval by the Community Development Department and the Parks and Open Space
Manager. Frontage roads shall enter arterials by means of intersections design
with turning and stacking capacity adequate for the traffic volume as estimated
by the City Engineer or designee.
   G.   Rear Access Restriction: If the rear of any lot borders a public
street, the subdivider shall be required to have access restricted on the plat,
prohibiting the right of ingress and egress from said public street to that
lot. In addition, a masonry wall and related improvements must be installed as
provided in this chapter under double-frontage lots. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-5: STREETS AND STUB STREETS:
   A.   Streets: Streets shall conform to the width designated on the
transportation master plan and the public works standards. The subdivider may
be required either to provide land for widening of established streets within
or adjacent to a proposed subdivision or to provide land for new streets
necessitated by the development.
   B.   Stub Street: A stub street shall not exceed one hundred and fifty feet
(150') in length unless a temporary turnaround is provided as shown in the
public works standards.
   C.   Half Streets: Half streets are not permitted within the City and the
subdivider, at their own expense, shall provide a full width right of way as
provided in the public works standards. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-6: CURB, GUTTER, PARK STRIP AND SIDEWALK:
Curb, Gutter, Park Strips and Sidewalk are required to be provided by the
Subdivider to each lot within the subdivision. Connections to any of these
unfinished improvements within adjacent subdivisions or on adjacent properties
shall be completed by the subdivider to remove gaps in infrastructure and
pedestrian means of travel by sidewalk. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-7: PROTECTION STRIP NOT ALLOWED:
If a new subdivision street is contiguous to undeveloped property, the
subdivider shall not retain a protection strip between the street and the
adjacent property. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-8: PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS:
A minimum ten foot (10') public utility easement shall traverse the frontage(s)
of each lot. The Administrative Land Use Authority may require additional
easements to accommodate utility planning and future access. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-
13-2023)
12-6-9: UTILITIES REQUIRED:
The following utilities are required to be provided by the Subdivider to each
lot:
   A.   Culinary Water: The water source shall be provided by Clearfield City
unless an alternative permanent source is approved by the City Engineer and the
Davis County Health Department. All lots shall be served by the City’s culinary
water system. Water system improvements are to be installed by the subdivider
and then relinquished to the City following satisfactory inspection. In
addition, City water connection fees assessed to each lot must be paid before
any water service is provided.
   B.   Sewer: The sewer service shall be provided by Clearfield City through
gravity collection lines. The sanitary sewer system shall be designed by a
licensed engineer and constructed by the subdivider. After satisfactory
inspection in made, all sewer improvements will be accepted by the City.
      1.   Public sewer lift stations are not generally permitted. Public sewer
lift stations may be granted by exception by the Administrative Land Use
Authority and the City Engineer when a lift station is deemed to be in the best
the interest of the City and gravity sewer is not feasible;
      2.   As determined by the Administrative Land Use Authority and the City
Engineer, some property may not be developed if gravity sewer cannot be
reasonably provided.
   C.   Secondary/Irrigation Water (Secondary Water): Secondary water service,
as an independent service, is not required by the City. Culinary water is
allowed to be used for outdoor purposes as provided for in the Public Works
Standards, or as otherwise approved by the City. If relocation or alteration of
existing private secondary water infrastructure is necessary, the subdivider
shall coordinate and have approved the changes by the private secondary water
provider. Connections to said secondary water infrastructure shall also be
coordinated and approved by the subdivider and secondary water provider.
   D.   Land Drain: The land drain system must be installed in areas with
shallow groundwater. If basements are eliminated and the geotechnical report
can provide sufficient documentation that groundwater levels (including
historical) are deep enough to eliminate the need for the land drain system,
the Administrative Land Use Authority and the City Engineer may allow this
requirement to be waived.
   E.   Electrical Power: The subdivider shall have installed, within the
subdivision, electric power to each lot in accordance with the rules and
policies of Rocky Mountain Power (RMP) or their successors. The subdivider
shall make arrangements RMP to adjust all existing overheard or underground
electric power facilities within the subdivision that are in conflict with the
layout of the subdivision or are otherwise required to be adjusted. Such
adjustments shall be one at the subdivider’s expense.
   F.   Natural Gas: The natural gas service will be provided by Dominion
Energy, or their successors and all installations must follow Dominion Energy
Standards.
   G.   Telecommunications: A telecommunication service shall be provided.
   H.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be provided at locations determined
by the North Davis Fire District in accordance with International Fire Code
standards. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-10 UTILITIES TO BE UNDERGROUND:
All utilities shall be placed underground in all subdivisions. The Subdivider
shall establish final utility grades prior to utilities being placed
underground. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-11: STORM WATER:
Storm water plans shall meet the requirements of the Public Works Standards and
the City Code. The City Engineer shall determine the appropriate implementation
strategy for meeting the City’s storm water-related standards, using the
current Capital Facilities Plan as a guide; this may include decisions
regarding ownership and access to storm water basins, and where and how the
water shall flow as part of the City’s overall storm water system. (Ord. 2024-
01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-12: DITCHES:
   A.   Open gravity flow ditches are not permitted within the boundary of a
subdivision.
   B.   All existing irrigation ditches, whether used for the purpose of
transporting irrigation or waste flow water, must be replaced with a pipe
having a minimum diameter of fifteen inches (15") or larger as otherwise
required by the water company or users.
      1.   Pipe shall comply with reasonable engineering standards and shall be
satisfactory to the affected irrigation company or users both upstream and
downstream of the subdivision.
      2.   Irrigation ditches which are no longer needed may, with the
permission of the irrigation water users, be abandoned and filled.
      3.   In all cases, the Developer shall show proof in writing that the
proposed system is satisfactory to the water users.
   C.   Open gravity flow ditches located adjacent but not within a subdivision
shall be restricted to access from residents of the proposed subdivision with a
fence. The fence shall be located on the subdivision side of the ditch and
shall be constructed along the entirety of the subdivision boundary which abuts
the ditch.
   D.   “Water Users”, as used in this section, means private persons,
companies, associations, or any other business organization as the case may be
which have a legal interest in the affected ditch or irrigation system. (Ord.
2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-13: INSPECTIONS:
All improvements and infrastructure shall receive inspections by the City
Engineer or designee as required in the Public Works Standards and as necessary
to verify conformance with the City Code and the Public Works Standards.
Failure to obtain the necessary inspections may necessitate removal and re-
installation of the improvements and infrastructure at the Subdivider’s cost if
such removal and re-installation are determined by the City Engineer or
designee. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-14: ENGINEERING AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Access: All lots shall be accessed by a fully improved City street and
shall meet the frontage requirements outlined in Title 11. It shall be the
responsibility of the Subdivider to provide proper road access to the
Subdivision as required in City Code, the Public Works Standards, and (where
applicable) the Utah Department of Transportation. The mere existence of a
public road or right-of-way to the proposed Subdivision does not mean that
adequate access exists. It shall be the Subdivider’s responsibility to
construct and dedicate all public roads required by the City to provide access
to the Subdivision.
   B.   Design Standards: All Subdivisions shall comply with the current
adopted design standards set forth in City Code and in the Clearfield Public
Works Standards.
   C.   Public Infrastructure and Improvements: The City Engineer shall have
authority to require adjustments to the utility plan associated with a proposed
Subdivision including adjustments to the type, manner, and location of
utilities. Such adjustments to the utility plan may be required to provide
connectivity between developments, provide for public safety, and minimize
public infrastructure maintenance and liability.
   D.   Additional Reports and Studies:
      1.   Geotechnical reports as required by the Public Works Standards and
the City Engineer.
      2.   A traffic study may be required by the City Engineer depending on
his/her judgment regarding the size of the Subdivision, complex traffic
movements involved with the proposal, interaction of streets with State roads,
new traffic patterns, traffic volume in or near the Subdivision, history of
crashes or expected crashes in the area, general safety, or anticipated traffic
delays due to the Subdivision.
      3.   Storm water pollution protection as required by the Public Works
Standards and City Code.
      4.   Wetland delineation and mitigation may be required as determined by
the City Engineer or as otherwise required by the Army Corp of Engineers.
   E.   Preservation of Natural Conditions: The design and development of
Subdivisions shall preserve insofar as possible the natural terrain, natural
drainage, existing topsoil, and trees as determined by the Administrative Land
Use Authority for Preliminary Subdivision Applications. Replacement and
construction of new bridges, culverts or piping of the natural tributaries and
open manmade channels, except irrigation canals, shall be designed as approved
by the City Engineer.
   F.   Hazards: Land subject to hazardous conditions such as slides, mud
flows, shallow water table, floods, and polluted or non-potable water supply
shall not be subdivided until complete mitigation of the hazards has been
properly identified and included in the Subdivision Improvement Plans. (Ord.
2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-15:`PARKS, SCHOOLS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Access: All subdivisions shall provide at a minimum pedestrian access
to existing or planned adjacent parks, schools, and other public places.
Vehicular access shall be provided if deemed necessary by the City Engineer and
the Planning Commission.
   B.   Required: Where a proposed Subdivision includes or adjoins an existing
or planned park as specified in the City’s General Plan or Parks Master Plan
the Subdivision plat shall include and provide for the development of the park
in accordance with said Plan. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-16: TRAILS:
   A.   Required: Where a proposed Subdivision includes or adjoins an existing
or planned public trail system as specified in the City’s General Plan or
Trails Master Plan the Subdivision plat shall include and provide for the
development of public trail infrastructure in accordance with said Plan.
   B.   Improvements: Trails shall be developed in accordance with applicable
AASHTO standards with sufficient width, and to safely accommodate two-way
bicycle and pedestrian traffic along the trail corridor. In absence of
applicable AASHTO standards, or local standards hereby adopted and applied.
      1.   The Administrative Land Use Authority, when feasible, may allow the
trail right-of-way to be substituted for a required sidewalk and park strip
area on one side of the street right-of-way dedicated within the Subdivision.
      2.   All trail improvements shall be dedicated to the City or an agreed
upon non-profit third party, for the operation and maintenance after final
acceptance. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-17: HAZARDOUS AREAS TO BE FENCED:
All areas of the subdivision or features adjacent to the subdivision, which
present a potential threat to the public safety, shall be fenced with a six
foot (6') non-climbable fence or masonry wall as required by the Administrative
Land Use Authority. Such hazardous areas may include, but are not limited to
rivers and streams, canals, steep drop offs or slopes, arterial or collector
streets, and railroad rights-of-way. The fence or wall shall be constructed and
included as part of the subdivision improvements and be included in the public
improvements financial guarantee. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-18: STREET LIGHTING:
   A.   The subdivider shall pay for all outdoor street lighting fixtures and
warranty for the street lighting following installation.
   B.   The placement and installation of street lighting shall be in
accordance with the adopted Public Works Standards.
   C.   The subdivider is responsible for ordering and installing the
streetlights as specified in Public Works Standards. The streetlights shall
then be maintained by the City.
   D.   The subdivider shall be required to get power installed into the
subdivision and notify the City when power is available. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-
2023)
12-6-19: STREET TREES:
For residential subdivisions and as elsewhere identified by the City, the
subdivider shall provide street trees for all streets in a subdivision. Unless
elsewhere specified in City Code, the number of street trees shall be
calculated on the basis of one tree at a minimum of every forty (40) linear
feet or a maximum of every sixty (60) linear feet of frontage including double
frontage lots or as otherwise specified in City Code. The City shall approve
the locations and varieties of the trees to be planted. Ongoing maintenance of
the street trees shall be the responsibility of the owner of the lot. It is
unlawful to remove in whole any street tree without the full replacement of the
tree with a new street tree. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-20: FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENTS:
If the subdivision is located in an identified floodplain area, the subdivision
design shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local regulations
related to development within a floodplain area. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-21: IMPROVEMENTS: AS-BUILT PLAN FILED ON COMPLETION:
A complete improvement plan “as-built” shall be filed with the City Engineer
upon completion of said improvements. Such “as-built” plans shall be certified
as to accuracy and completeness by the subdivider’s licensed contractor and
engineer. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-22:   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY PRIOR TO PLAT RECORDING:
   A.   Pre-Construction Meeting: Upon Final Land Use Approval of the Final
Plat and Improvement Plans and prior to commencing any construction activity,
the Subdivider shall schedule and attend a pre-construction meeting as required
in the Public Works Standards.
      1.   If the General Contractor changes at any time during construction,
an additional pre-construction meeting shall be held before additional work
commences.
   B.   Inspections: All construction shall be subject to inspections as
required in the Public Works Standards.
   C.   Improvement Completion Assurance: At any time after receiving final
approval, the Applicant may post an improvement completion assurance as
outlined in this chapter for:
      1.   Completion of one hundred percent (100%) of the required public
improvements or infrastructure; or
      2.   If the City has inspected and accepted a portion of the public
improvements, one hundred percent (100%) of the incomplete or unacceptable
public improvements or infrastructure. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-23: IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETION ASSURANCE, GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE, AND
DIRECT COSTS:
   A.   Purpose: To assure the completion of required improvements and
infrastructure as required by the approved plans, Public Works Standards, and
all applicable ordinances, the Subdivider shall establish a 1) cash escrow
account guarantee with a federally insured financial institution, or 2) a cash
bond with the City, or 3) a surety bond with a reputable bond provider who is
licensed to issue surety bonds in the State of Utah. The City reserves the
right to review any proposed bond provider’s performance and may reject a
proposed provider whose past performance has been questionable or who has been
in business less than five (5) years.
      1.   This completion assurance shall be established prior to recording
the Subdivision plat. If the Subdivider installs the infrastructure and
improvements and such infrastructure and improvements are inspected and
approved by the City prior to recording the plat, then only warranty portion of
the completion assurance shall be required.
      2.   The provisions of this section do not supersede the terms of a valid
Development Agreement, an adopted phasing plan, or the State Construction Code.
   B.   Cost Estimate: The Subdivider shall submit an Engineer’s Cost Estimate
for all improvements and infrastructure required within the Subdivision. The
cost estimate shall include quantities, units, and costs for all improvements
and infrastructure required, and shall indicate which items, if any, have
already been installed.
      1.   The City Engineer shall review and approve the cost estimate and may
adjust the costs to meet current industry standards. Those items that are
deemed “direct costs” shall be removed from the guarantee amount and shall be
accounted separately.
   C.   Guarantee Amount: The guarantee shall be equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the cost estimated and approved by the City Engineer.
      1.   One hundred percent (100%) shall be for the cost of those
improvements and infrastructure not yet installed; and
      2.   Ten percent (10%) shall be for a required one-year (1) warranty
period. The warranty amount calculated shall be based upon the total cost of
all required improvements and infrastructure.
   D.   Liability: The Subdivider and/or contractor shall indemnify and hold
harmless the City and its officers, directors, members, partners, agents,
employees, and consultants from all claims, damages, losses, and expenses,
including attorney’s fees, arising out of, or resulting from the installation
of the required improvements and infrastructure. The indemnity required hereby
shall be included in the applicable public improvement guarantee agreement.
   E.   Default: In the event the Subdivider is in default with any provision
of this Section, or fails or neglects to satisfactorily install the required
improvements and infrastructure within two (2) years from the date of approval
of the final plat, or to pay all liens in connection therewith, or to correct
deficiencies or damages to the improvements and infrastructure required for
final acceptance (see Subsection 18 hereof), the City may declare the financial
guarantee forfeited and the City may install, repair, or cause the required
improvements and infrastructure to be installed or repaired, using the proceeds
from the collection of the financial guarantee to defray the expense thereof.
      1.   The City may apply all sums deposited as part of the financial
guarantee against the cost of completing all required improvements and
infrastructure and to pay all expenses, including, but not limited to, all
unreimbursed engineering expenses related to the development, a ten percent
(10%) administration fee for the securing of contracts, and court costs and
attorney fees. The default provisions required hereby shall be included in the
applicable public improvement guarantee agreement.
         a.   Should the cost of completing all required improvements exceeds
the total or remaining financial guarantee available to the City at the time of
default, the Subdivider shall pay for the difference and all costs incurred by
the City in collecting said difference, including but not limited to the
professional services and labor costs incurred by the City to complete all
required improvements, as well as all costs incurred by the City resulting from
any legal action taken by the City related to the default of the Subdivider.
   F.   Release of Funds: The Subdivider shall be responsible for the quality
of all materials and workmanship. If improvements and infrastructure are
properly installed and verified via City inspections and testing, liens are
paid, and other conditions are found to be satisfactory, then the City shall
authorize the money held for the specific improvements completed (except for
the 10% held during the hereinafter described warranty period) to be released.
If the conditions of material or workmanship show unusual depreciation, or do
not comply with the acceptable standards of durability, or if required
inspections or testing have not been done, or if any outstanding liens are not
paid, then the City may withhold releasing the money and the City may declare
the Subdivider in default. The City shall have exclusive control over the
release of the funds, and they may be released only upon written approval by
the City.
   G.   Direct Costs: The Subdivider shall pay the following direct costs at
the time they establish the required public improvements guarantee. The funds
collected for each item will be used for the construction and installation of
said items by the City; thus removing the Subdivider’s responsibility for the
installation of these items as part their development:
      1.   Funds for the current Public Works Standard seal coat treatment. The
amount shall be established by the City Engineer in accordance with recent bid
prices received for similar treatment(s).
      2.   Funds associated with any cost agreement(s) (such as a development
agreement) with the City that was established as a condition of approval. (Ord.
2024-01, 6-13-2023)
12-6-24: DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY AFTER PLAT RECORDING:
   A.   Improvements and Infrastructure Required for Building Permit: No
building permit shall be issued by the City unless all required improvements
are installed, inspected, and approved, with the exception of sidewalk, asphalt
pavement, streetlights, and street signs.
   B.   Improvements and Infrastructure Required for Occupancy: No occupancy
permit shall be issued by the City unless all required improvements are
installed, including all streetlights, street signs, asphalt pavement, and the
sidewalk along the frontage of the building lot in question. If necessary, any
damaged improvements shall be replaced prior to the issuance of occupancy.
   C.   Conditional Acceptance of Improvements and Infrastructure: The City
Engineer or designee shall issue conditional acceptance upon the following:
      1.   Completion of all required improvements and infrastructure.
      2.   The site has been left in an orderly and clean condition following
construction. Construction waste, debris, excess fill material, or any other
similar material shall not be left or abandoned on the site or on other nearby
properties.
      3.   The final plat has been recorded.
      4.   The Subdivider makes a written request for inspection of
improvements and infrastructure for the purpose of conditional acceptance.
         a.   The City will generate a written punchlist of items needing
repair, replacement or yet to be completed.
         b.   Improvements and infrastructure are inspected by the City and
found to be acceptable and in compliance.
         c.   Completion of all items identified on the punchlist.
         d.   Reproducible as-built drawings have been submitted to and
accepted by the City Engineer.
   D.   Warranty Period: Upon receipt of Conditional Acceptance, all required
improvements and infrastructure shall be warranted by the Subdivider for a
period of one (1) calendar year (12 months).
   E.   Final Acceptance: Following the completion of the Warranty Period, the
City Engineer or designee shall issue final acceptance of the Subdivision
improvements and infrastructure when:
      1.   The Subdivider makes a written request for inspection of
improvements and infrastructure for the purpose of Final Acceptance.
      2.   The City will generate a written punchlist of items needing repair
or replacement.
      3.   Improvements and infrastructure are inspected by the City and found
to be acceptable and in compliance.
      4.   Completion of all items identified on the punchlist.
   F.   Release of Remaining Financial Guarantee: Upon receiving final
acceptance, the City shall authorize the release of all remaining guarantee
funds. (Ord. 2024-01, 6-13-2023)
TITLE 13
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
AUTHORITY, FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
SECTION:
13-1-1: Findings Of Fact
13-1-2: Statement Of Purpose
13-1-3: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
13-1-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   Periodic Inundation: The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   B.   Cumulative Effect Of Obstructions: These flood losses are caused by the
cumulative effect of obstructions in areas of special flood hazard which
increase flood heights and velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage
uses in other areas. Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord.
89-1, 1-10-1989)
13-1-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions to specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   Protection: To protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize Expenditures: To minimize expenditure of public monies for
costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize Need For Rescue Efforts: To minimize the need for rescue and
relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense
of the general public;
   D.   Minimize Interruptions: To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize Damage: To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities,
such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and
bridges located in areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   Maintain Stable Tax Base: To help maintain a stable tax base by
providing for the sound use and development of areas of special flood hazard so
as to minimize future flood blight areas;
   G.   Notification To Potential Buyers: To ensure that potential buyers are
notified that property is in an area of special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure Responsibility: To ensure that those who occupy the areas of
special flood hazard assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-
1989)
13-1-3: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this Title includes methods and provisions
for:
   A.   Restricting Uses: Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous
to health, safety and property due to water or erosion, or flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Protection Of Facilities: Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods,
including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood at the
time of initial construction;
   C.   Controlling Alterations: Controlling the alteration of natural flood
plains, streams, channels and natural protective barriers, which help
accommodate or channel flood waters;
   D.   Development Control: Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other
development which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase
flood hazards in other areas. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Definitions
13-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this title its most reasonable application:
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
depositions; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated zone A on the flood hazard insurance boundary map
(FHIBM). After detail ratemaking has been completed in preparation for
publication of the FIRM, zone A is usually refined into zone A, AE, AH, AO, A1-
99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zone V1-30, VE, or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or sheer walls parallel to the floor of the water, and b) adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of
up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99,
AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated
by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-
30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting
the definition of "elevated building" even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section
63.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purpose of determining rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installations of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevations
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of depths
of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventative measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinances and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior.
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system, which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structure, such as closure, and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: For floodplain management purposes, a
parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more
manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: Means, for purposes of the national flood insurance program,
the national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
PLANNING COMMISSION 1 : An official body established by the city council of
Clearfield City, which shall administer this title.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (pub. L.97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The "actual start" means either
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the "actual start of construction"
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this title when
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this title. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or river
areas. (Ord. 2007-16, 6-12-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
13-3-1: Development Permit Established
13-3-2: City Engineer
13-3-3: Variance Procedure
13-3-1: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT ESTABLISHED:
A development permit or building permit shall be obtained before construction
or development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in
section
13-4-2 of this title. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
   A.   Application: Application for a development or building permit shall be
made on forms furnished by the city and may include, but not be limited to:
(Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989; amd. 2000 Code)
      1.   Plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question;
      2.   Existing or proposed structures, fill, storage materials and
drainage facilities; and
      3.   The locations of the foregoing.
   B.   Information Required: Specifically, the following information is
required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure will
be located or floodproofed; (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
      3.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured home, will be reasonably safe
from flooding;
      4.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 13-5-2B of this title; and
      5.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 2007-20, 7-10-2007)
13-3-2: CITY ENGINEER:
   A.   Administration: The city engineer is hereby appointed to administer and
implement this title by granting or denying development permit applications in
accordance with its provisions.
   B.   Duties: Duties of the city engineer shall include, but not be limited
to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this title have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
         c.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
         d.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this title, "adversely affects" means
damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to
physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas. (Ord. 2007-20,
7-10-2007)
            (1)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building or structure, then the permit shall be granted
without further consideration.
            (2)   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer) for the
proposed development shall be required.
            (3)   If the proposed development is a building, then the
provisions of this title shall apply.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with section
13-4-2 of this title, the city engineer shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data available, FIRM draft and preliminary map
from a federal, state or other source in order to administer section
13-5-1 of this title.
      3.   Information Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) to which the structure has been floodproofed. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
            (2)   Verify and record elevation in relation to mean sea level to
which any nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed.
            (3)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection 13-3-1B4 of this chapter.
            (4)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 2007-20, 7-10-2007)
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the Utah state division of water
rights prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management agency.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
         c.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use. (Ord. 2007-20, 7-10-2007)
      5.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary, shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in section
13-3-3 of this chapter). (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
13-3-3: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeal Board:
      1.   The planning commission, as established by the city, shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this title.
      2.   The planning commission shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the city engineer.
      3.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the planning commission or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the city council.
      4.   In passing upon such applications, the planning commission shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this title and: (Ord. 2008-14, 12-9-2008)
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         f.   The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and
anticipated development;
         g.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         h.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         i.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
         j.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets and
bridges. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection A4 of this section
and the purposes of this title, the planning commission may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this title. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989; amd. Ord. 2008-14, 12-9-2008)
      6.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
      7.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors of this chapter have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      8.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      9.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria outlined in this section are met, and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to
public safety. (Ord. 2007-20, 7-10-2007)
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this subsection.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
as identified in subsection A4 of this section or conflict with existing local
laws or ordinances.
      5.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built in accordance with the
conditions established by the increased risk of flooding. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-
1989)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-4-1: Applicable Lands
13-4-2: Basis For Establishing Flood Hazard Areas
13-4-3: Compliance Required
13-4-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
13-4-5: Interpretation
13-4-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
13-4-7: Penalty
13-4-1: APPLICABLE LANDS:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city as established by the national flood insurance
program. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
13-4-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study For The City Of Clearfield", dated June 18, 2007, with an
accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM), is hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this title. The flood insurance study is on file
at 55 South State Street, Clearfield, Utah. (Ord. 2007-16, 6-12-2007)
13-4-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and
other applicable regulations. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
13-4-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this title or another
ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 89-1, 1-
10-1989)
13-4-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the city council; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
13-4-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall
not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee thereof,
or the federal emergency management agency for any flood damages that result
for reliance on this title or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
13-4-7: PENALTY:
Violations of this title shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each and every day any obstruction is placed or
maintained in any natural watercourse, shall be a distinct and separate
offense. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
13-5-1: General Standards
13-5-2: Specific Standards
13-5-3: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
13-5-4: Floodways
13-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   Required: All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes must be installed using
methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top and frame ties to ground anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   Resistant To Damage: All substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   Minimize Damage: All substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
      3.   Prevent Damage: All new construction or substantial improvements
shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding. (Ord. 2007-20, 7-10-2007)
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   Water System: All new and replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      2.   Sewage System: New and replacement sanitary sewer systems shall be
designated to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      3.   Waste Disposal System: On site waste disposal systems shall be
located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals: The planning commission shall review all
subdivision, planned residential unit development (PRUD), condominium,
manufactured home park, etc., proposals near a flood hazard area and shall
enforce the following provisions:
      1.   Minimize Flood Damage: All subdivision, PRUD, condominium,
manufactured home park, etc., proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      2.   Public Facilities: All subdivision, PRUD, condominium, manufactured
home park, etc., proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
      3.   Drainage: All subdivision, PRUD, condominium, manufactured home
park, etc., proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood damage.
      4.   Base Flood Elevation Data: Base flood elevation data shall be
provided for subdivision, PRUD, condominium, manufactured home park, etc.,
proposals and other proposed development which contains two (2) or more lots.
      5.   Area: All subdivision, PRUD, condominium, manufactured home park,
etc., proposals shall be designated such that no building or structure will be
located within an established 100-year flood hazard area as outlined in section
13-4-2 of this title. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
13-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in subsection 13-3-2B2 or section
13-4-2 of this title, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: Substantial improvement of any residential
structure within any 100-year flood hazard area indicated on the FIRM map shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation. New construction shall not be allowed within any
designated 100-year flood hazard area. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
   B.   Nonresidential Construction:
      1.   Substantial Improvement: A registered professional engineer or
architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator. Substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure shall
either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the level of the
base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall: (Ord. 2007-20, 7-10-2007)
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall
be provided to the official as set forth in subsection 13-3-1B4 of this title.
      2.   New Construction: No new construction of nonresidential structure
shall be allowed within any 100-year flood hazard area. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989)
   C.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes are required to be placed
within zone A on the city's FIRM and shall be installed using methods and
practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirement for resisting wind
forces. (Ord. 2007-20, 7-10-2007)
13-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with chapter 1 of this title.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of sections
13-3-1 and
13-3-2 of this title and the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which are greater than fifty (50) lots or four (4)
acres, whichever is less, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
13-4-2 and subsection 13-3-2B2 of this title.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 2007-20, 7-10-2007)
13-5-4: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
13-4-2 of this title are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   Prohibit Encroachment: Prohibit encroachment, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   Dumping Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to dump or place
any garbage, trees, brush, dirt, refuse, rubbish or other waste material in the
bed or channel or any natural stream, or in any watercourse, ravine or gulley
which usually carries storm water or spring runoff waters so as in any way to
obstruct or interfere with the flow of such waters without first obtaining a
permit to do so from the planning commission. (Ord. 89-1, 1-10-1989; amd. Ord.
2007-20, 7-10-2007)
TITLE 14
IMPACT FEES
CHAPTER 1
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
14-1-1: Findings And Authority
14-1-2: Definitions
14-1-3: Applicability
14-1-4: Service Areas
14-1-5: Calculation Of Fees Based On Schedule
14-1-6: Exemptions
14-1-7: Offsets To Fees
14-1-8: Development Agreements
14-1-9: Collection Of Fees
14-1-10: Fund Accounting
14-1-11: Refunds
14-1-12: Use Of Funds
14-1-13: Fees Supplemental To Other Methods
14-1-14: Updates And Revisions To Impact Fees Or Service Areas
14-1-15: Independent Fee Calculations
14-1-16: Appeals
14-1-17: Penalty
14-1-1: FINDINGS AND AUTHORITY:
The city council finds and determines that growth and development activity in
the city will create additional demand and need for sanitary sewer, publicly
owned parks, open space and recreational facilities, storm drainage and
culinary water facilities in the city; and the city council finds that growth
and development activity should pay a proportionate share of the cost of such
planned facilities needed to serve the growth and development activity. The
city council further finds that impact fees are necessary to achieve an
equitable allocation to the costs borne in the past and to be borne in the
future, in comparison to the benefits already received and yet to be received.
Therefore, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated, title 11, chapter 36a (the "impact
fees act"), the city council adopts this chapter to assess impact fees for
planned facilities. The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed
in order to carry out the purposes of the city council in establishing the
impact fee program. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply for purposes of this chapter, unless the
context clearly requires otherwise. Terms otherwise not defined herein shall be
defined by their usual and customary meaning.
ACT: The impact fees act as set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter
36a, as in existence on the effective date hereof or as hereafter amended.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official document or certification which is issued by the
building official and which authorizes the construction, alteration,
enlargement, conversion, reconstruction, remodeling, rehabilitation, erection,
demolition, moving or repair of a building or structure. For purposes of this
chapter, "building permit" also includes a mobile home permit.
CAPITAL FACILITIES: The facilities or improvements included in a capital
budget.
CITY: The city of Clearfield.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Clearfield.
CITY ENGINEER: The officially appointed and acting city engineer for the city.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of Clearfield City.
CLEARFIELD CITY CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE: The schedule of fees charged by the
city, adopted by ordinance, for various activities occurring within the city.
DEVELOPER: An individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation,
association, municipal corporation, state agency or other person undertaking
development activity, and their successors and assigns.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any construction or expansion of a building or structure;
or the siting of a mobile home; or any change in use of a building or structure
or mobile home; or the subdivision of land; or the seeking of plat approval, PD
approval, site plan approval; boundary line adjustment or conditional use
permit approval; or any other change in use of land that creates additional
demand and need for sanitary sewer, publicly owned parks, open space and
recreational facilities, storm drainage or culinary water facilities.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written authorization from the city, other than
building permit, which authorizes the commencement of a development activity,
including, but not limited to, plat approval, PD approval, site plan approval,
mobile home park approval, boundary line adjustment and a conditional use
permit.
ENCUMBERED: To reserve, set aside or otherwise earmark the impact fees in order
to pay for commitments, contractual obligations or other liabilities incurred
for planned facilities. A pledge to retire debt, or an allocation to a current
purchase order or contract.
FEE PAYER: A person, corporation, partnership, an incorporated association or
any other similar entity, or department or bureau of any governmental entity or
municipal corporation commencing a development activity which creates the
demand for planned facilities and which requires development approval and/or
the issuance of a building permit. "Fee payer" includes an applicant for an
impact fee credit.
IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed by the city on development activity
pursuant to this chapter as a condition of granting development approval and/or
a building permit in order to pay for the planned facilities needed to serve
new growth and development activity. "Impact fee" does not include a tax, a
special assessment, a hookup fee, a fee for project improvements, a reasonable
permit or application fee, the administrative fee for collecting and handling
impact fees, the cost of reviewing independent fee calculations or the
administrative fee required for an appeal.
IMPACT FEE ACCOUNT OR ACCOUNTS: The account or accounts established for the
planned facilities for which impact fees are collected.
IMPACT FEE ADMINISTRATORS: Those designated by the city manager who have
primary responsibility for administering this chapter. At minimum,
administrators in which the fees are related to that department, including, but
not being limited to, the following: public works director, community services
director, building official, zoning administrator and others as indicated.
IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS (OR IFA): The written analysis required by section 11-36a-
201 of the act.
IMPACT FEE FACILITIES PLAN: The plan required by section 11-36a-301 of the act.
INDEPENDENT FEE CALCULATION: The impact calculation and/or economic
documentation prepared by a fee payer, to support the assessment of an impact
fee other than by the use of the schedules attached in the appendices to this
title, or the calculations prepared by the building official or city engineer
where none of the impact fee categories or impact fee amounts in the appendices
accurately describe or capture the impacts of the development activity on
public streets and roads, publicly owned parks, open space and recreational
facilities, storm drainage and culinary water facilities.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Shall have the same meaning as set forth in title 11 of this
code.
OWNER: The owner of record of real property, or a person with an unrestricted
written option to purchase property; provided, that if the real property is
being purchased under a recorded real estate contract, the purchaser shall be
considered the owner of the real property.
PARKS AND RECREATION IMPACT FEES: The impact fee designated to pay for publicly
owned parks, open space and recreational facilities.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OR PD: Shall have the same meaning as set forth in title 11
of this code.
PLANNED FACILITIES: Sanitary sewer facilities, parks, open space, recreational
facilities and trails, storm drainage and flood control facilities, and
culinary water rights, supply, treatment and distribution facilities included
in the capital improvements plan of Clearfield City.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: Site improvements and facilities that are planned and
designed to provide service for development resulting from a development
activity and are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or uses
of development resulting from a development activity. "Project improvements" do
not include "system improvements" (as defined herein).
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: An amount that is roughly proportionate and reasonably
related to the service demands and needs of a development activity.
QUALIFYING IMPROVEMENTS: An improvement which is part of the planned facility
for which an impact fee is required.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation,
as required by the city, for not more than one family and including site built
buildings, mobile/manufactured homes and modular homes.
ROADWAY: Any public highway, road or street constructed and maintained by
Clearfield City.
SERVICE AREA: A geographic area designated by the city based on sound planning
and engineering principles in which a defined set of the city's public
facilities provides service.
SEWER IMPACT FEE: The impact fee designated to pay for sanitary sewer
collection, treatment, storage, collection lines and other associated
improvements.
STANDARD OF SERVICE: The quantity and quality of service which the city council
has determined to be appropriate and desirable for the city. A measure of the
standard of service may include, but is in no way limited to, maximum levels of
the sanitary sewer system, maximum commute times, maximum wait at stops,
minimum water pressure and volume, minimum fire suppression capabilities,
minimum park space of per capita for a variety of types of parks, minimum
distance from residences to parks, minimum stormwater runoff control systems
and any other factor the city council may deem appropriate.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STORM DRAINAGE IMPACT FEE: The impact fee designated to pay for storm drain
lines, basins and other associated improvements.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: Both existing public facilities designed to provide
services within the service area and future public facilities identified in a
reasonable plan for capital improvements adopted by the city that are intended
to provide service to the service area. "System improvements" do not include
"project improvements" (as defined herein).
WATER IMPACT FEE: The impact fee designated to pay for water rights, supply,
treatment, storage and distribution facilities, distribution lines and other
associated improvements. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Impact Fees: The collection of impact fees shall apply to all new
development in the city unless otherwise provided herein. Until any impact fee
required by this chapter has been paid in full, no building permit, electrical
permit, certificate of compliance, certificate of occupancy, or other permit
subsequent to development plan approval for any development shall be issued. A
stop work order shall be issued on any development for which the applicable
impact fee has not been paid in full.
      1.   Parks And Recreation Impact Fees: Parks and recreation impact fees
shall apply only to new residential development.
      2.   Storm Drainage Impact Fees: Storm drainage impact fees shall apply
to new residential, commercial, industrial, institutional or any other land use
which creates additional runoff through the placement of any hard surface.
      3.   Water Impact Fees: Water impact fees shall apply to any connection
to the culinary water system, placing additional demand for storage facilities
and distribution lines.
      4.   Sewer Impact Fees: Sewer impact fees shall apply to any connection
to the sanitary sewer system, placing additional demand for collection lines,
storage and treatment facilities and all associated improvements.
   B.   Moved Structures: The movement of a structure onto a lot shall be
considered development and shall be subject to the impact fee provisions,
unless otherwise provided herein.
   C.   Excluded Activities: The impact fee provisions shall not apply to the
following activities:
      1.   Placing on a lot in the city a temporary construction trailer or
office, but only for the life of the building permit issued for the
construction served by the trailer or office; and
      2.   Any development, including, but not limited to, the mere subdivision
of land, installation of utilities, or the use of land for limited
recreational, agricultural, filling or degrading purpose, which in the opinion
of the building official, will not result in a net increase in demand on the
city's parks and recreation, roadways, storm drainage, sewer facilities and
water facilities. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-4: SERVICE AREAS:
   A.   Established: The following impact service areas are hereby established:
      1.   For the purpose of parks and recreation impact fees, the service
area shall be all of the incorporated area of the city.
      2.   For the purpose of storm drainage impact fees, the service area
shall be all of the incorporated area of the city.
      3.   For the purpose of water impact fees, the service area shall be all
of the incorporated area of the city.
      4.   For the purpose of sewer impact fees, the service area shall be all
of the incorporated area of the city.
   B.   New Development Within Service Area: Impact fees shall be assessed only
on new development located within the service area.
   C.   Use Within Service Area: Impact fees collected within the service area
shall be spent within the service area.
   D.   Review; Amendment: The appropriateness of the designation and
boundaries of the service areas shall be reviewed periodically by the city as
part of the impact fee revision process. Following such review and a public
hearing, the service areas may be amended. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-
2013)
14-1-5: CALCULATION OF FEES BASED ON SCHEDULE:
Impact fees shall be calculated as follows:
   A.   Basis: Unless an applicant requests an individual assessment as set
forth in this section, the impact fees shall be calculated for the proposed
development based on the development plan approval or permit allowing the use,
according to the applicable fee schedule.
   B.   Schedules Adopted: The impact fee schedule and formulas are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference to the city’s consolidated fee
schedule as set forth in title 2, chapter 5 of this code, as amended.
   C.   Interpretation Of Units: The units of development specified in the fee
schedule shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   Single Family Residential impact fees will be collected as 1
Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). For the purpose of this chapter, mobile or
manufactured homes are considered residential.
      2.   Multi-family units (apartments, townhomes, condos, etc.) will be
assessed at 0.82 ERU.
      3.   Nonresidential units (commercial, schools, churches, etc.) will be
assessed on Drainage Fixture Unit count (DFU).
      4.   Manufacturing/Industrial units will be assessed by DFU or estimated
daily meter usage as outlined in the Consolidated Fee Schedule, whichever is
greater.
   D.   Unspecified Categories: For categories of uses not specified in the
applicable impact fee schedule, the impact fee administrator will apply the
category of use set forth in the applicable fee schedule that is deemed to be
most similar to the proposed use.
   E.   Mixed Uses: If the development plan approval or permit for the proposed
development indicates a mix of uses in the development, the impact fees shall
be calculated separately for each use according to the fee schedule and the
results aggregated.
   F.   Additions, Remodeling, Change Of Use: For an addition to or remodeling
or replacement of existing structures, or for a change of use of an existing
structure, the impact fee to be paid shall be the difference, if any, between:
      1.   The fee, if any, that would be payable for existing development on
the site or, in the case of demolition or removal of a structure, the previous
development on the site; provided, that the demolition or removal has occurred
within one year of the date of submittal of the application for which impact
fees are assessed; and
      2.   The fee, if any, that would be payable for the total development on
the site for the new development.
   G.   Estimate By Impact Fee Administrator: Upon written request of an
applicant, the impact fee administrator shall provide an estimate of the
current fee based on the date provided by the applicant. However, the impact
fee administrator shall not be responsible for determining at such preliminary
date, the accuracy of the information provided, nor shall such estimate provide
any vested rights. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013; amd. Ord. 2016-05,
9-13-2016, eff. 12-13-2016; Ord. 2023-11, 7-25-2023)
14-1-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   All Fees: The following shall be exempted from the payment of all
impact fees:
      1.   Replacement of a structure or mobile home with a new structure or
mobile home of the same size and use at the same site or lot when such
replacement occurs within twelve (12) months of the demolition or destruction
of the prior structure or the removal of the mobile home.
      2.   Alterations, expansion, enlargement, remodeling, rehabilitation or
conversion of an existing unit where no additional units are created and the
use is not changed.
      3.   The construction of accessory structures that will not create
significant impacts on the planned facilities.
      4.   Miscellaneous accessory improvements to use, including, but not
limited to, fences, walls, swimming pools and signs.
      5.   Demolition or moving of a structure.
   B.   Parks And Recreation Fees: The following shall be exempted from the
payment of the parks and recreation impact fees:
      1.   The construction of public school facilities.
      2.   The construction of private school facilities; provided, that
comparable open space or recreational facilities are made available to the
public at such facility.
      3.   Nonresidential construction.
   C.   Voluntary Agreement Between City And Developer: Except as otherwise
provided, pursuant to the terms of a voluntary agreement entered into between
the city and a developer, the payment of fees, the dedication of land, or the
construction of planned facilities by the developer pursuant to the terms of a
voluntary agreement negotiated with the city, with specific reference to the
improvements identified in the capital facilities plan and in anticipation of
the imposition of impact fees, and entered into between the city and a
developer prior to the effective date hereof, shall be deemed to be complete
mitigation for the impacts of the specific development on the planned
facilities. The units in such development may be charged a reduced fee pursuant
to an independent fee calculation under section
14-1-15 of this chapter. The developer shall provide to the building official
documentation demonstrating compliance with the terms of the voluntary
agreement.
   D.   Determination Of Exemption: The impact fee administrator shall be
authorized to determine whether a particular development activity falls within
an exemption identified in this section, in any other section or under other
applicable law. Determinations of the impact fee administrator shall be in
writing and shall be subject to the appeals procedures set forth in this
chapter.
   E.   Low Income Housing: Upon the determination of the city council, low
income housing, as defined by the state, and other development activities with
broad public purposes, may be exempted from the payment of an impact fee,
provided one or more sources of funds, other than impact fees, can be
identified to pay for the exempted development activity. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-
2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-7: OFFSETS TO FEES:
Offsets, which are reductions from the impact fee that would otherwise be due
from a development, shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Applicability: An offset shall be applied against impact fees otherwise
due for qualifying improvements that are required to be made by a developer as
a condition of development approval.
   B.   Restricted To Impact Fees: Offsets shall be allowable and payable only
to offset impact fees otherwise due for the same category of improvements and
shall not result in reimbursement from, credit for future fees, nor constitute
a liability of, the city for any deficiency in the offset, unless specifically
agreed to in writing, by the city.
   C.   Qualifying Improvements: Offsets shall be given only for the value of
any construction of improvements or contribution or dedication of land or money
by a developer or his predecessor in title or interest for qualifying
improvements of the same category for which an impact fee was imposed.
   D.   Documentation Submitted By Applicant: The person applying for an offset
shall be responsible for providing appraisals of land and improvements,
construction cost figures, and documentation of all contributions and
dedications necessary to the computation of the offset claimed. The building
official shall have no obligation to grant offsets to any person who cannot
provide such documentation in such form as the building official may reasonably
require.
   E.   Appraisal Of Land Value: The value of land dedicated or donated shall
be based on the appraisal land value of the parent parcel (which land value is
based on the date of transfer of ownership to the city) as determined by a
certified appraiser who was selected and paid for by the applicant, and who
used generally accepted appraisal techniques. If the city disagrees with the
appraised value, the city may engage another appraiser at the city's expense,
and the value shall be an amount equal to the average of the two (2)
appraisals. If either party rejects the average of the two (2) appraisals, a
third review appraisal shall be obtained, with the cost of such third appraisal
being shared equally by the property owner and the city. The review appraiser
shall be selected by the first two (2) appraisers, and the review appraisal
shall be binding on both the city and person applying for offset.
   F.   Term: Offsets provided, for qualifying improvements, meeting the
requirements of this section, shall be valid from the date of approval until
six (6) years after the date of approval or until the last date of construction
within the project, whichever comes first.
   G.   Right To Claim: The right to claim offsets shall run with the land and
may be claimed only by owners of property within the development area for which
the qualifying improvement was required.
   H.   Submittal Of Claim: Any claim for offsets must be made in writing, no
later than the time of submittal of a building permit application or
application for another permit subsequent to development plan approval that is
subject to impact fees. Any claim not so made shall be deemed waived. (Ord.
2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-8: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   At the sole discretion of the city council through a development
agreement, impact fees assessed against new developments may be delayed or
contributed to by the city to achieve its goals and policies, including, but
not limited to, retaining or generating employment or other economic activity
in the community.
   B.   Where a development includes or requires a qualifying improvement, the
city and the developer may agree in writing to have the developer participate
in the financing or construction of part or all of the qualifying compensation
to the developer for the developer's participation in the financing and/or
construction of the improvements. The agreement shall include:
      1.   Estimated Cost: The estimated cost of the qualifying improvements,
using the lowest responsible bid by a qualified bidder, which bid is approved
by the building official or, if no bid is available, the estimated cost
certified by a licensed Utah engineer and approved by the building official;
      2.   Schedule: A schedule for initiation and completion of the
improvement;
      3.   Design; Compliance: A requirement that the improvement be designed
and completed in compliance with any applicable city or state laws or
regulations; and
      4.   Other Necessary Conditions: Such other terms and conditions as
deemed necessary by the city. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-9: COLLECTION OF FEES:
The collection of impact fees shall be as follows:
   A.   Permit Issuance Or Plan Approval: Except as set forth in subsection B
of this section, the impact fees for all new development shall be calculated
and collected in conjunction with the application for the first building permit
or electrical permit, certificate of compliance or occupancy permit, or other
permit subsequent to development plan approval for such development, whichever
occurs first in time.
   B.   Development Plan Approval: For other uses not ultimately requiring a
building permit, electrical permit, certificate of compliance or occupancy, or
other permit subsequent to development plan approval, the fee shall be
calculated and collected at the time of approval of the development plan. (Ord.
2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-10: FUND ACCOUNTING:
   A.   Fund Established: The city shall establish a separate interest bearing
accounting fund in which the impact fees collected for a particular type of
public facility within the service area shall be credited. Such fees shall be
invested by the city and the yield on such fees, at the actual rate of return
to the city, shall be credited to such accounting fund periodically in
accordance with the accounting policies of the city. Such funds need not be
segregated from other city monies for banking purposes.
   B.   Yield: Any yield on such accounting fund into which the fees are
deposited shall accrue to that fund and shall be used for the purposes
specified for such fund.
   C.   Records Maintained: The city shall maintain and keep financial records
for such accounting fund showing the source and amount of all monies collected,
earned and received by the fund and the disbursements from such fund, in
accordance with normal city accounting practices. The records of such funds
shall be open to public inspection in the same manner as other financial
records of the city.
   D.   Expend, Encumber; Time Limit: Impact fees shall be expended or
encumbered within six (6) years of receipt, unless the city council identifies
in written findings extraordinary and compelling reasons to hold the impact
fees beyond the six (6) year period. Under such circumstances, the city council
shall establish an absolute date by which the impact fees shall be expended or
encumbered. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-11: REFUNDS:
   A.   Failure To Expend: If the city fails to expend or encumber the impact
fees within six (6) years of when the impact fees were paid, or where
extraordinary or compelling reasons exist, the current owner of the property on
which impact fees have been expended or encumbered, may be entitled to a refund
of the unexpended or unencumbered impact fees. Impact fees shall be considered
expended or encumbered on a first in, first out basis.
   B.   Notification: The city shall notify potential claimants by first class
mail deposited with the United States postal service at the last known address
of such claimants. A potential claimant or claimant must be the owner of the
property.
   C.   No Application For Refund: Any impact fees for which no application for
a refund has been made within this one year period shall be retained by the
city and expended on the appropriate planned facilities.
   D.   Interest Included In Refund: Refunds of impact fees under this section
shall include any interest earned on the impact fees by the city, calculated at
the average interest rate earned by the city on the impact fees account over
the preceding fiscal year.
   E.   Termination Of Program: When the city seeks to terminate any or all
components of the impact fee program, all unexpended or unencumbered funds from
any terminated component or components, including interest earned, shall be
refunded pursuant to this section. Upon the finding that any or all impact fee
requirements are to be terminated, the city shall place notice of such
termination and the availability of refunds in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated § 11-36A-601 et seq., as amended. All funds available for a refund
shall be retained for a period of one year. At the end of one year, any
remaining funds shall be retained by the city, but must be expended for the
appropriate planned facilities. This notice requirement shall not apply if
there are no unexpended or unencumbered balances within the impact fee account
being terminated.
   F.   Developers: The city shall also refund to the developer on a
development activity for which impact fees have been paid, including interest
earned on the impact fees, if the development activity for which the impact
fees were imposed did not occur; provided, that if the city has expended or
encumbered the impact fees in good faith prior to the application for a refund,
the city can decline to provide the refund. If within a period of three (3)
years, the same or subsequent owner of the property proceeds with the same or
substantially similar development activity, the owner can petition the city for
an offset. The petitioner must provide proof of payments of impact fees
previously paid for a development of the same or substantially similar nature
on the same property or some portion thereof. The building official shall
determine whether to grant an offset. Determinations of the building official
shall be in writing and shall be subject to the appeals procedures set forth in
section
14-1-16 of this chapter.
   G.   Owners: Owners seeking a refund of impact fees must submit a written
request for a refund of the impact fees to the building official within one
year of the date the right to claim the refund arises or the date that notice
is given, whichever is later.
   H.   Administrative Fee: The city shall charge an administrative fee for
verifying and computing the refund of three percent (3%) of the amount of the
refund. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 6-14-2022)
14-1-12: USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   As pursuant to this chapter:
      1.   Impact fees collected for sanitary sewer facilities, impact fees for
publicly owned parks, open space, recreational facilities and trails, and
impact fees for storm drainage facilities or water facilities, shall be used
solely for those respective purposes and only those that will reasonably
benefit the development activity.
      2.   Impact fees shall not be imposed to make up for deficiencies in
existing facilities serving existing developments.
      3.   Impact fees shall not be used for maintenance or operation.
   B.   Impact fees may be spent for planned facilities, including, but not
limited to, planning, land acquisition, construction, engineering,
architectural, permitting, financing and administrative expense, applicable
impact fees or mitigation costs, capital equipment pertaining to planned
facilities, and any other similar expenses which can be capitalized.
   C.   Impact fees may also be used to recoup city improvement costs
previously incurred by the city to the extent that new growth and development
activity will be served by the previously constructed improvements or incurred
costs.
   D.   Impact fees may be used to recoup the cost of studying, analyzing and
preparing the impact fees.
   E.   In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments are to have been
issued for the advanced provision of city improvements for which impact fees
may be expended, impact fees may be used to pay debt service on such bonds or
similar debt instruments to the extent that the facilities or improvements
provided are consistent with the requirements of this section and are used to
serve the development activity. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-13: FEES SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER METHODS:
   A.   Specified: Except as herein otherwise provided, impact fees are in
addition to any other requirements, taxes, fees or assessments imposed by the
city on development or the issuance of building permits or certificates of
occupancy which is imposed on and due against property within the jurisdiction
of the city. Impact fees are intended to be consistent with the city's general
plan, capital improvements plan, land development ordinances and other city
policies, ordinances and resolutions by which the city seeks to ensure the
provision of capital facilities in conjunction with development.
   B.   Bonds, Other Authorized Mechanisms: In addition to the use of impact
fees, the city may finance qualifying capital improvements through the issuance
of bonds, the formation of assessment districts or any other authorized
mechanism, in such manner and subject to such limitations as may be provided by
law. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-14: UPDATES AND REVISIONS TO IMPACT FEES OR SERVICE AREAS:
   A.   Adjustment Of Fee Or Service Areas: The city may adjust the impact fees
or service areas periodically, for an impact fee, after a study and proper
notice as provided in Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 36a, as amended.
   B.   Schedule Adjustment: The city may adjust the standard impact fee in the
schedule of impact fees to:
      1.   Respond to unusual circumstances in specific areas.
      2.   Ensure the impact fees are imposed fairly. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013,
eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-15: INDEPENDENT FEE CALCULATIONS:
   A.   Authorized: If the impact fee administrator believes in good faith that
none of the impact fee categories or impact fee amounts set forth in the
schedules in the appendices accurately describe or capture the impacts of a
development activity on planned facilities, the impact fee administrator may
conduct independent fee calculations. The impact fee administrator may impose
alternative impact fees on a specific development activity based solely on
these calculations. The alternative impact fees and the calculations shall be
set forth in writing and shall be mailed to the fee payer.
   B.   Fee Payer; Submission Of Calculation: If a fee payer opts not to have
the impact fees determined according to the schedules set forth in the
appendices, then the fee payer shall prepare and submit to the impact fee
administrator an independent fee calculation for the development activity for
which final plat, PD, site plan, or other development approval, or a building
permit is sought. The documentation submitted shall show the basis upon which
the independent fee calculation was made. The appropriate city staff persons
shall review the independent fee calculation and provide an analysis to the
building official concerning whether the independent fee calculation should be
accepted, rejected or accepted in part. The building official may adopt, reject
or adopt in part the independent fee calculation based on the analysis prepared
by appropriate city staff persons and based on the specific characteristics of
the development activity, and/or principles of fairness. The impact fees or
alternative impact fees and the calculations shall be set forth in writing and
shall be mailed to the fee payer.
   C.   Fee For Review By City Staff: Any fee payer submitting an independent
fee calculation will be required to pay the city a fee to cover the cost of
reviewing the independent fee calculation. The amount of the fee shall be in
accordance with the city's current consolidated fee schedule.
   D.   Consideration By City: While there is a presumption that the
calculations set forth in the city capital improvements plan are valid, the
building official shall consider the documentation submitted by the fee payer
and the analysis prepared by the appropriate city staff persons, but is not
required to accept such documentation or analysis which the building official
reasonably deems to be inaccurate or not reliable, and may, in the alternative,
require the fee payer to submit additional or different documentation for
consideration. The building official is authorized to adjust the impact fees on
a case by case basis based on the independent fee calculation, the specific
characteristics of the development activity, and/or principles of fairness. The
impact fees or alternative impact fees and the calculations shall be set forth
in writing and shall be mailed to the fee payer.
   E.   Appeal Of Determination: Determinations made by the building official
pursuant to this section may be administratively appealed to the city council,
subject to the procedures set forth in state law and in section
14-1-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-16: APPEALS:
   A.   Authorized: Any fee payer may pay the impact fees imposed by this
chapter under protest in order to obtain the development approval and/or a
building permit. Appeals regarding the impact fees imposed on any development
activity may only be taken by the fee payer of the property where such
development activity will occur. No appeal shall be permitted unless and until
the impact fees at issue have been paid.
   B.   Determinations Appealable: The impact fee administrator's
determinations with respect to the applicability of the impact fees to a given
development approval and/or a building permit, the availability of an
exemption, the availability or value of a credit, or the building official's
decision concerning the independent fee calculation which is authorized in
section
14-1-15 of this chapter, or the impact fees imposed by the impact fee
administrator pursuant to section
14-1-5 of this chapter, or any other determination which the impact fee
administrator is authorized to make pursuant to this chapter, can be
administratively appealed to the city council pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 11-36a-703, as amended.
   C.   Time Limit; Filing; Fee: Administrative appeals shall be taken within
thirty (30) days after payment of an impact fee. Appeals shall be taken to the
city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city recorder,
specifying the grounds thereof, and depositing an administrative fee in the
amount set forth by the city's current consolidated fee schedule. The person
appealing the fee shall also submit, in writing, a request for information
relative to the fee. The impact fee administrator shall transmit to the city
council and within two (2) weeks of the written request for information, to the
person appealing the fee, all papers constituting the record for the
determination, including the written analysis required by title 11, chapter 36a
of the Utah code (the act), as amended, and any other relevant information
relating to the impact fee.
   D.   Conduct Of Hearing: The city council shall fix a time for the hearing
of the appeal, give notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same. At
the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. If the
matter which is the subject of the appeal requires development approval which
also requires a hearing before the city council, both the appeal and the
development approval hearing may be combined in a single hearing.
   E.   Findings Of Fact: The city council is authorized to make findings of
fact regarding the applicability of the impact fees to a given development
activity, the availability or amount of the credit or the accuracy or
applicability of an independent fee calculation. The decision of the city
council shall be final, except as provided in subsection J of this section and
shall be made within thirty (30) days from the date the appeal was filed.
   F.   Decision: The city council may, so long as such action is in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or
part, or may modify the determination of the impact fee administrator with
respect to the amount of the impact fees imposed or the credit awarded upon a
determination that is proper to do so based on principles of fairness, and may
make such order, requirements, decision or determination as ought to be made,
and to that end shall have the powers which have been granted to the impact fee
administrator by this chapter.
   G.   Reconsideration: Any fee payer who believes that the decision of the
city council is based on erroneous procedures, errors of law or fact, error in
judgment, or has discovered new evidence which could not be reasonably
available at the prior hearing, may make a written request for reconsideration
by the city council within ten (10) working days of the date the decision is
rendered. Such fee payer is the "appellant" for the purpose of this subsection.
This request shall set forth the specific errors or new information relied upon
by such appellant, and the city council may, after review of the record, take
further action as it deems proper.
   H.   Stay Of Appeal: The filing of a request for reconsideration shall
effectively stay the appeal period until the city council takes further action.
   I.   Flaws In Program: Where the city council determines that there is a
flaw in the impact fee program or that a specific exemption or credit should be
awarded on a consistent basis or that the principles of fairness require
amendments to this chapter, they shall issue a decision requiring that such a
modification, change or elimination of a fee or fee requirement, as is deemed
necessary to correct the flaw, be made.
   J.   District Court Review: Any fee payer aggrieved by a decision of the
city council may submit an appeal of the decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction as set forth in title 11, chapter 36a of the Utah code (the act),
as amended. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
14-1-17: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted in the same manner as class B
misdemeanors are prosecuted and upon conviction, the violator shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; however, in addition to or in lieu of any criminal
prosecution, the city shall have the power to sue in civil court to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-07, 5-28-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
CHAPTER 2
REIMBURSEMENT FOR IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
14-2-1: Reimbursement From Property Owners And/Or Developers For Improvements
14-2-1: REIMBURSEMENT FROM PROPERTY OWNERS AND/OR DEVELOPERS FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Improvement Costs: The city shall be entitled to collect from property
owners and/or developers of property, prior to the issuance of any permit or
approval, the costs of any improvements for which either the city or another
developer has paid for and constructed which would constitute a project
improvement to the property owner's/developer's development activity. The
project improvements shall include any improvement which specifically benefits
the development activity by providing improvements which would need to be
installed by the property owner/developer prior to development. The property
owner's/developer's reimbursement costs shall be calculated by the city
engineer, based upon the city's and/or the other developer's actual costs for
property acquisition, design, construction and installation of the
improvements. The city may withhold the issuance of a permit or final approval
until such time as the property owner's/developer's share of the costs
previously incurred by the city and/or another developer has been paid.
   B.   Reimbursement Agreements:
      1.   The city is authorized to enter into reimbursement agreements with
developers for improvements to water, sewer, stormwater, roads, or parks which
extend, expand, or improve the city's water, sewer, stormwater, roads, or
parks, beyond what is required to service or benefits the subdivision or
development proposed by the developer. Such reimbursement agreements are not
mandatory, but instead may be used at the discretion of the city council upon
advice from the city engineer, public works director, city manager, and city
attorney. The amount to be reimbursed to the developer shall be set forth in
the reimbursement agreement as determined by the city engineer, subject to the
review and approval of the city council, giving consideration to the
improvements required for and/or benefiting the developer's development as well
as those improvements which extend, expand or improve the city's water, sewer,
stormwater, roads, or parks beyond what is required for the development.
      2.   The city shall, in all cases, be immune and not liable for any
payments to the developer if a reimbursement agreement is determined to be
unenforceable. Unless otherwise specifically agreed to pursuant to a
reimbursement agreement approved by the city council and fully executed by all
parties thereto, the responsibility for payment of costs incurred by a
developer for property acquisition, design, construction and installation of
the required improvements or facilities shall rest entirely with the developer.
The city shall have no obligation to reimburse a developer for any amounts
unless and until funds have actually been received by the city from other
property owners/developers pursuant to this section. Developers shall only be
eligible to receive reimbursement funds for those costs actually incurred and
expended by the developer for property acquisition, design, construction and
installation of the required improvements or facilities which are in excess of
the developer's own share of said costs, as determined by the city.
      3.   Reimbursement agreements shall not confer a benefit upon any third
party and shall be in a form approved by the city attorney. Prior to entering
into a reimbursement agreement with a developer pursuant to this section, the
city will first hold a public hearing on the matter after providing ten (10)
days' written notice to property owners upon whose property the reimbursement
agreement would subject future development activity to reimbursing either the
city or another developer for improvements previously installed. (Ord. 2014-07,
4-22-2014)
TITLE 15
PUBLIC ART
CHAPTER 1
ORIGINAL ART MURALS
SECTION:
15-1-1: Purpose
15-1-2: Scope
15-1-3: Interpretation
15-1-4: Definitions
15-1-5: Allowed Original Art Murals
15-1-6: Prohibited Murals
15-1-7: Permit Process
15-1-8: Enforcement
15-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter and the policy of Clearfield City is to permit and
encourage original art murals on a content-neutral basis on certain terms and
conditions. Original art murals comprise a unique medium of expression which
serves the public interest. Original art murals have purposes distinct from
signs and confer different benefits. Such purposes and benefits include:
improved aesthetics; avenues for original artistic expression; public access to
original works of art; community participation in the creation of original
works of art; community building through the presence of and identification
with original works of art; and a reduction in the incidence of graffiti and
other crime. (Ord. 2018-15, 9-11-2018)
15-1-2: SCOPE:
The intent of this chapter is to permit the placement of original art murals,
which are separate and distinct from wall signs as set forth in section
11-15-8 of this Code. Murals containing text, logos, slogans, or advertising
messages of any kind are considered wall signs that must comply with the
requirements set forth in title 11, chapter 15 of this Code. Any mural not
expressly allowed by this chapter is prohibited. (Ord. 2018-15, 9-11-2018)
15-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the mural
regulations contained herein are declared to be the maximum allowable for the
purposes set forth. If the City Manager's designee determines that an
application needs further interpretation, he or she may request further review
of the application by the City Manager.
If the City Manager's designee makes the determination that an application be
denied, the City Manager shall, upon written request submitted by the applicant
to the City Recorder's Office, within five (5) business days after receipt of
such request, review and make a determination on the designee's determination.
If the City Manager affirms the designee's determination, in whole or in part,
the person may appeal the final determination to the Second District Court in
accordance with the Utah Administrative Procedures Act, Utah State Code section
63G-4-101, et seq. (Ord. 2018-15, 9-11-2018)
15-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
ALTERATIONS: Any change to the permitted original art mural, including but not
limited to any change to the image(s), materials, colors or size of the
permitted original art mural. "Alteration" does not include naturally occurring
changes to the permitted original art mural caused by exposure to the elements
or the passage of time. Minor changes to the permitted original art mural which
result from the maintenance or repair of the permitted original art mural shall
not constitute "alteration" of the permitted original art mural within the
meaning of this chapter. This can include slight and unintended deviations from
the original image, colors or materials that occur when the permitted original
art mural is repaired due to the passage of time, or as a result of vandalism
such as graffiti.
CHANGING IMAGE MURAL: A mural that, through the use of moving structural
elements, flashing or sequential lights, lighting elements, or other automated
method, results in movement, the appearance of movement or change of mural
image or message. Changing image murals do not include otherwise static murals
where illumination is turned off and back on not more than once every twenty
four (24) hours.
COMPENSATION: The exchange of something of value. It includes, without
limitation, money, securities, real property interest, barter of goods or
services, promise of future payment, or forbearance of debt. "Compensation"
does not include:
   A.   Goodwill; or
   B.   An exchange of value that a building owner (or leaseholder with a right
to possession of the wall upon which the mural is to be placed) provides to an
artist, muralist or other entity where the compensation is only for the
creation and/or maintenance of the mural on behalf of the building owner or
leaseholder, and the building owner or leaseholder fully controls the content
of the mural.
ORIGINAL ART MURAL: An original work of visual art which is tiled; computer
generated print or images including digitally printed vinyl; or painted by hand
directly upon, or affixed directly to an exterior wall of a building. Original
art mural does not include:
   A.   Murals containing electrical or mechanical components; or
   B.   Changing image murals.
PERMITTED ORIGINAL ART MURAL: An original art mural for which a permit has been
issued by Clearfield City pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2018-15, 9-11-2018)
15-1-5: ALLOWED ORIGINAL ART MURALS:
Original art murals that meet all of the following criteria and which are not
prohibited will be allowed upon satisfaction of the applicable permit
requirements:
   A.   No mural shall be affixed on the front-facing facade of a building.
   B.   No mural shall contain any text, logos or trademarks, with the
exception of an artist's signature.
   C.   No mural shall extend more than six inches (6") from the plane of the
wall upon which it is tiled or hand-painted or to which it is affixed.
   D.   The mural shall remain in place, without alterations, for a period of
five (5) years. The applicant shall certify in the permit application that the
applicant agrees to maintain the mural in place for a period of five (5) years
without alteration. (Ord. 2018-15, 9-11-2018)
15-1-6: PROHIBITED MURALS:
The following are prohibited:
   A.   Murals for which compensation is given or received for the display of
the mural or for the right to place the mural on another's property. The
applicant shall certify in the permit application that no compensation will be
given or received for the display of the mural or the right to place the mural
on the property.
   B.   Murals which would result in a property becoming out of compliance with
the provisions of title 11, "Land Use", of this Code or land use conditions of
approval for the development on which the mural is to be located.
   C.   Murals which depict obscene or other material, not constitutionally
protected under the First Amendment. (Ord. 2018-15, 9-11-2018)
15-1-7: PERMIT PROCESS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful for any person to affix an original art mural on any property
located within the City without first obtaining a permit from the City. A fee
for the permit shall be paid by the applicant in accordance with the City's
consolidated fee schedule.
   B.   Original Art Mural Permit Application Process: The City Manager or
designee shall approve any application for an original art mural that fully
complies with the following standards:
      1.   Completed "Original Art Mural" application form, including the
signature of the property owner and mural artist.
      2.   Three 8.5 inch x 11-inch copies of a concept plan drawn to scale,
suitable for photocopying, that identify:
         a.   Property lines;
         b.   Building location and facade on which the mural will be located;
         c.   Names of street that abut site;
         d.   North arrow.
      3.   Three 8.5 inch x 11-inch copies of building elevations, drawn to
scale, suitable for photocopying, that identify:
         a.   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed mural;
         b.   The building eave/cornice and roof line.
      4.   Details about how the mural is affixed to building facade.
      5.   Written description of material(s) used for the mural.
      6.   Stamped and addressed envelopes provided to the City, for the
properties adjacent to the proposed mural location. The envelopes should
include a copy of the application of the proposed mural and a copy of the
concept plan.
      7.   Original art mural permit fee in accordance with the City's
consolidated fee schedule. (Ord. 2018-15, 9-11-2018)
15-1-8: ENFORCEMENT:
The City Manager or designee shall enforce all rules and regulations necessary
to the operation and enforcement of this chapter. The City Manager or designee
shall be empowered and directed to:
   A.   Issue Permits: Issue permits for original art murals that conform to
the provisions of this chapter. The expiration date for such permits shall be
one hundred eighty (180) days from the time the permit is issued. Permitted
original art murals must be completed within sixty (60) days from the date the
first tile, image or paint is affixed to the building facade.
   B.   Determine Conformance: Ensure that all murals are executed in
conformance with this chapter. Clearfield City will perform:
      1.   Initial Inspection After Mural Application: The City Manager or
designee may make an initial inspection upon the completion of the application
of the original art mural.
      2.   Re-Inspection (When Necessary): The City Manager or designee may
perform a re-inspection of any mural for which a permit was issued but which
upon primary inspection was not affixed in conformance with the regulations of
this chapter.
   C.   Legal Action: The City Manager or designee shall institute any
appropriate action or proceeding in any case where any mural is illegally
affixed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or in any case where any
mural is tiled or hand-painted in violation of any City ordinance including,
but not limited to, the provisions of this chapter by:
      1.   Issuing Notices Of Violations And Citations: The City Manager or
designee may issue a written notice of violation to the person having charge or
control or benefit of any mural found to be unsafe or dangerous or in violation
of this Code, particularly when the City is contemplating removal of said
mural. Such official may also issue civil citations and swear to information
against violators.
      2.   Abating And Removing Illegal Murals:
         a.   Murals tiled, affixed, or painted on private property in
violation of this chapter shall be brought into conformance within thirty (30)
calendar days of written notice by the City, either through removal of the
mural or by obtaining a mural permit. Any mural not brought into compliance
within the time period given in the notice may at once be abated and removed by
the City Manager or designee. The person responsible for any such illegal mural
shall be liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof, and the City is
authorized to effect the collection of said cost.
         b.   Any murals tiled, affixed, or painted upon public property may be
removed by the City without notice.
      3.   Abating And Removing Non-Maintained, Or Abandoned Mural: The City
Manager or designee shall require each non-maintained or abandoned mural to be
removed from the building or premises when such mural has not been repaired or
put into use by the owner, person having control or person receiving benefit of
such structure within forty five (45) calendar days after written notice has
been given to the owner, person having control, or person receiving benefit of
such structure.
   D.   Failure To Remove Or Abate Any Illegal Mural: In no case shall failure
to remove or abate any illegal murals constitute approval by the City of such
mural. (Ord. 2018-15, 9-11-2018)
