TOWN CODE
of
CORINNE CITY, UTAH
2007
Code current through:
Ord. 23-01, passed 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Corinne City, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 23-01, passed 2023. Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE # 23-02
 
AN ORDINANCE OF CORINNE CITY AMENDING
TITLE 4 HEALTH AND SANITAION OF THE CITY CODE
 
WHEREAS, Corinne City has reviewed Title 4 of Health and Sanitation of the City
Code; and
 
WHEREAS, the amended sections have been included and are necessary; and
 
WHEREAS, the Corinne City Council finds that neither the public nor any person
will be materially injured by such amendment, that there is a good cause for
such amendment and that such amendment is desirable and in the best interests
of the citizens of Corinne City and will protect the health, safety, and
welfare of Corinne City residents.
 
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT AND IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF CORINNE
CITY, UTAH:
 
Section 1. Title 4 Health and Sanitation of the City Code is hereby amended.
See attached
 
Section 2.  This ordinance shall take effect five (5) days after publication or
posting.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF CORINNE CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THIS
______ DAY OF _______________, 2023
 
                     CORINNE CITY
 
                     ___________________________
                     SHANE BATON, MAYOR
ATTEST:
 
______________________________________
KENDRA NORMAN, CITY RECORDER
 
ORDINANCE NO. 24-01
TOWN OF CORINNE CITY, UTAH
IMPACT FEE ENACTMENT ORDINANCE
 
May 21, 2024
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE TOWN OF CORINNE CITY, BOX ELDER
COUNTY, UTAH, ADOPTING IMPACT FEE ANALYSES AND IMPOSING AN IMPACT FEE FOR THE
FOLLOWING FACILITIES: CULINARY WATER AND SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION; PROVIDING
FOR THE CALCULATION AND COLLECTION OF SUCH FEES; PROVIDING FOR APPEAL
PROCEDURES, ACCOUNTING AND SEVERABILITY OF THE SAME; AND OTHER RELATED MATTERS
 
   WHEREAS, the Town of Corinne City, Utah, (“Corinne City”) is a political
subdivision of the State of Utah, organized under the provisions of Utah law
and authorized pursuant to the Impact Fees Act, Utah Code Ann. § 11-36a-101 et
seq., to adopt impact fees pursuant to Corinne Town Code 8-5-6 C.; and
 
   WHEREAS, Corinne City has a population and serves a population of less than
5000 as of the last federal census as criteria as provided in Utah Code Ann. §
11-36a-301; and
 
   WHEREAS, on February 16, 2024, Corinne City posted notice of its intent to
prepare or amend an impact fee facilities plan and impact fee analyses for
culinary water and sanitary sewer collection and invited all interested parties
to participate in the impact fee preparation process, consistent with Utah Code
Ann. §§ 11-36a-501 and 11-36a-503; and
 
   WHEREAS, on May 17, 2022, City provided written notice of its choice to
prepare an impact fee facilities element in the general plan; and
 
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of Corinne City (the “Town Council”)   met in
regular session on March 19, 2024, to consider, among other things, contracting
for the preparation of a master plan for needed future capital facilities and
impact fee analyses for purposes of adopting an impact fee for facilities for
culinary water and sanitary sewer collection; and
 
   WHEREAS, on August 20, 2022, Corinne City engaged Sunrise Engineering, (the
“Engineers”) to prepare a master plan for needed future capital improvements
for Corinne City’s culinary water (the “Culinary Water Master Plan”), sanitary
sewer collection (the “Wastewater System Master Plan”) and related impact fee
analyses; and
 
   WHEREAS, on March 29, 2024, Corinne City posted notice of a public hearing
on Utah’s Public Notice Website, Corinne City’s Website, and the local
newspaper to consider adopting the Culinary Water Master Plan, the Wastewater
System Master Plan, and the impact fee analyses; and
 
   WHEREAS, on March 29, 2024, Corinne City published on Utah’s Public Notice
Website and Corinne City’s website, a notice of public hearings to be held on
May 21, 2024, to hear public comment on the Impact Fee Analyses and this
Ordinance; and
 
   WHEREAS, on January 16, 2024, Corinne City made a copy of the Culinary Water
Master Plan, the Wastewater System Master Plan, the Impact Fee Analyses,
together with a layperson’s summary of such analyses, and this Ordinance
available to the public at the Corinne City offices and on Corinne City’s
website; and
 
   WHEREAS, on or before May 1, 2024, Corinne City posted notice of the May 21,
2024, public hearings in at least three public places within Corinne City and
on Utah’s Public Notice Website; and
 
   WHEREAS, on April 10, 2024, the Engineers certified their work under Utah
Code Ann. § 11-36a-306(1); and
 
   WHEREAS, on May 21, 2024, after considering the input of the public and
stakeholders and relying on the professional advice and certification of the
Engineers, Corinne City adopted the findings, conclusions, and recommendations
of the Culinary Water Master Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as
EXHIBIT A, and the Wastewater System Master Plan, a copy of which is attached
hereto as EXHIBIT B; and
 
   WHEREAS, the Town Council deems and accepts both the Culinary Water Master
Plan and the Wastewater System Master Plan as “reasonable plans” for purposes
of Utah Code Ann. Subsection 11-36a-301(3)(a) of the Impact Fees Act, relieving
Corinne from having to comply with the capital facilities plan requirements the
Act; and
 
   WHEREAS, on behalf of Corinne City, the Engineers prepared impact fee
analyses for the culinary water facilities and sanitary sewer collection
facilities (the “Impact Fee Analyses”), a copy of which is attached hereto as
EXHIBIT C; and
 
   WHEREAS, on May 21, 2024, the Town Council held a public hearing regarding
the Impact Fee Analyses and this Ordinance; and
 
   WHEREAS, after careful consideration and review of the comments received at
the public hearings, the Town Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of Corinne City
to (a) approve the Impact Fee Analyses as proposed, and (b) adopt impact fees
for the following facilities: culinary water and sanitary sewer collection,
provide for the calculation and collection of such fees, and provide for
appeal, accounting, and severability of the same.
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Corinne City Town Council as follows:
 
   Section 1   Findings. 
 
   The Town Council finds and determines as follows:
 
   1.1.   All required notices have been given and public hearings conducted as
required by the Impact Fees Act with respect to the Culinary Water Master Plan
and the Wastewater System Master Plan, the Impact Fee Analyses, and this
Ordinance.
 
   1.2.   Growth and development activities in Corinne City will create
additional demands on its culinary water system and sanitary sewer collection
system. The facility improvement requirements which are analyzed in the
Culinary Water Master Plan, the Wastewater System Master Plan, and the Impact
Fee Analyses are the direct result of additional facility needs caused by
future development activities. The persons responsible for new growth and
development activities should pay a proportionate share of the costs of Corinne
City’s culinary water system and sanitary sewer collection system facilities
needed to serve new growth and development activity.
 
   1.3.   Impact fees are necessary to achieve an equitable allocation of the
costs borne in the past and to be borne in the future, in comparison with the
benefits already received and yet to be received.
 
   1.4.   In enacting and approving the Impact Fee Analyses and this Ordinance,
the Town Council has taken into consideration, and in certain situations will
consider on a case-by-case basis in the future, the future capital facilities
needs of Corinne City, the capital financial needs of Corinne City which are
the result of Corinne City's future capital facilities needs, the distribution
of the burden of costs to different properties within Corinne City based on the
use of culinary water and sanitary sewer collection facilities of Corinne City
by such properties, the financial contribution of those properties and other
properties similarly situated in Corinne City at the time of computation of the
required fee and prior to the enactment of this Ordinance, all revenue sources
available to Corinne City, and the impact on future facilities that will be
required by new growth and development activities in Corinne City.
 
   1.5.   The provisions of this Ordinance shall be liberally construed in
order to carry out the purpose and intent of the Town Council in establishing
the impact fee program.
 
   Section 2   Definitions.
 
   2.1.   Except as provided below, words and phrases that are defined in the
Impact Fee Act shall have the same meaning in this Ordinance.
 
   2.2.   “Service Area” shall mean that geographic area consisting of the
entirety of Corinne City.
 
   Section 3   Adoption.
 
   The Town Council hereby approves and adopts the Impact Fee Analyses attached
as Exhibit C and the analyses reflected therein. Based on the Town Council's
approval and adoption of the Culinary Water Master Plan and Wastewater System
Master Plan, the Town Council imposes a requirement that developers install the
necessary project improvements as a condition to (a) connection to Corinne
City's current or future culinary water and wastewater systems and (b) delivery
of water services from Corinne City. Based on its approval and adoption of the
master plans, the Impact Fee Analyses are incorporated herein by reference and
adopted as though fully set forth herein.
 
   Section 4   Impact Fee Calculations.
 
   4.1.   Impact Fees. The impact fees imposed by this Ordinance shall have one
or two components depending upon the fee; an equity buy-in and a future
facilities impact fee. The Impact Fee shall be calculated as set forth below.
 
   4.2.   Developer Credits/Developer Reimbursements. A developer, including a
school district or charter school, may be allowed a credit against or
proportionate reimbursement of impact fees if the developer dedicates land for
a system improvement, builds and dedicates some or all of a system improvement,
or dedicates a public facility that Corinne City and the developer agree will
reduce the need for a system improvement. A credit against impact fees shall be
granted for any dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of
any system improvements provided by the developer if the facilities are system
improvements to the respective utilities or are dedicated to the public and
offset the need for an identified system improvement.
 
   4.3.   Adjustment of Fees. The Town Counsil may adjust either up (but not
above the maximum allowable fee) or down the standard impact fees at the time
the fee is charged in order to respond to an unusual circumstance in specific
cases and to ensure that the fees are imposed fairly. The Town Council may
adjust the amount of the fees to be imposed if the fee payer submits studies
and data clearly showing that the payment of an adjusted impact fee is more
consistent with the true impact being placed on the system.
 
   4.4   Impact Fee Accounting. Corinne City shall establish a separate
interest-bearing ledger account for cash impact fees collected pursuant to this
Ordinance. Interest earned on each such account shall be allocated to that
account:
 
(a)   Reporting . At the end of each fiscal year, Corinne City shall prepare a
report generally showing the source and amount of all monies collected, earned
and received by the fund or account and of each expenditure from the fund or
account. The report shall also identify impact fee funds by the year in which
they were received, the project from which the funds were collected, the
capital projects from which the funds were budgeted, and the projected schedule
for expenditure, and be provided to the State Auditor on the appropriate form
found on the State Auditor’s Website.
 
(b)   Impact Fee Expenditures . Funds collected pursuant to the impact fees
shall be deposited in such account and only be used by Corinne City to
construct and upgrade the respective facilities to adequately service
development activity or used as otherwise approved by law.
 
(c)   Time of Expenditure. Impact fees collected pursuant to this Ordinance are
to be expended, dedicated, or encumbered for a permissible use within six (6)
years of receipt by Corinne City, unless the Town Council directs otherwise.
For the purposes of this calculation, the first funds received shall be deemed
to be the first funds expended.
 
(d)   Extension of Time. Corinne City may hold previously dedicated or
unencumbered fees for longer than six (6) years if it identifies in writing,
before the expiration of the six-year period, (i) an extraordinary and
compelling reason why the fees should be held longer than six (6) years; and
(ii) an absolute date by which the fees will be expended.
 
   4.5.   Refunds. Corinne City shall refund any impact fee paid when: (a) the
fee payer has not proceeded with the development activity and has filed a
written request with the Town Council for a refund within one (1) year after
the impact fee was paid; (b) the fees have not been spent or encumbered within
six (6) years of the payment date; and (c) no impact has resulted.
 
   4.6.   Additional Fees and Costs. The impact fees authorized hereby are
separate from and in addition to user fees and other charges lawfully imposed
by Corinne City for new development, such as engineering and inspection fees,
building permit fees, review fees, hookup fees, fees for project improvements,
and other fees and costs that may not be included as itemized component parts
of any impact fee.
 
   4.6.   Fees Effective at Time of Payment. Unless Corinne City is otherwise
bound by a contractual requirement, the impact fee shall be determined from the
impact fee schedule in effect at the time of payment in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5 below.
 
   Section 5    Impact Fees Imposed.
 
   Impact fees are hereby imposed as a condition of the issuance of a building
permit by Corinne City for any development activity which creates additional
demand and need for public facilities in order to mitigate the impact of such
development on public facilities. Impact fees shall be paid at the time of the
building permit application and no building permit shall be issued unless or
until the impact fees required by this Ordinance have been paid.
 
   The fees imposed are as follows:
 
   5.1   Culinary Water Impact Fee (per connection based on meter size).
 
 
Water Service Diameter       1”    1 ½ “2”    3”    4”    6”
Multiplication Factor        1       1.5     2       3       4       6
                                                                      
Projects
New Well Development Project $18,900 $28,350 $37,800 $56,700 $75,600 $113,400
4800 W Fire Flow Loop        $0      $0      $0      $0      $0      $0
10” Transmission Line      $0      $0      $0      $0      $0      $0
Replacement
Fire Hydrant Additions       $0      $0      $0      $0      $0      $0
40-Year Water Right Plan     $90     $135    $180    $27     $360    $540
Water Master Plan            $360    $540    $720    $1,080  $1,440  $2,160
Total                        $19,350 $29,025 $38,700 $58,050 $77,400 $116,100
 
5.2   Wastewater Impact Fee (per ERC’s)
 
 
Residential Commercial Other
1 ERC       See Chart  See Chart
$15,200     Exhibit C  Exhibit C
   Section 6   Fee Exceptions and Adjustments.
 
   6.1.    Waiver for Public Purpose. The Town Council may, on a project-by-
project basis, authorize exceptions or adjustments to the then impact fee rate
structure for those projects the Town Council determines to be of such benefit
to the community as a whole to justify the exception or adjustment. Such
projects may include low-income housing.
 
   6.2.    Adjustments. The Town Council may adjust impact fees imposed
pursuant to this Ordinance as necessary in order to respond to unusual
circumstances in specific areas, ensure that impact fees are imposed fairly,
and permit the adjustments of the amount of the impact fees based upon studies
and data submitted by an applicant in order to ensure that the impact fee
represents the proportionate share of the cost of providing such public
facilities which are reasonably related to and necessary in order to provide
the services in question to anticipate future growth and development
activities. The Town Council may also adjust impact fees to respond to a
request for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for the development
activity of an agency of the State of Utah, school district, or charter school.
 
   Section 7   Appeal Procedures.
 
   7.1.    Application. The appeal procedures set forth herein apply both to
challenges to the legality of impact fees of Corinne City and to the
interpretation and/or application of those fees.
 
   7.2.    Declaratory Judgment Action. Any person or entity residing in or
owning property within Corinne City, and any organization, association or
corporation representing the interests of persons or entities owning property
within Corinne City may file a declaratory judgment action challenging the
validity of an impact fee only after having first exhausted their
administrative remedies as provided in this Section 7.
 
   7.3.   Request for Information Concerning the Fee. Any person or entity
required to pay or who has paid an impact fee under this Ordinance may file a
written request for information concerning the fee (the “Request for
Information”) with Corinne City. Corinne City will provide the person or entity
with Corinne City's Impact Fee Analyses, the Culinary Water Master Plan, the
Wastewater System Master Plan, the Capital Facilities Plan, and other relevant
information relating to the impact fee within fourteen (14) days after receipt
of the Request for Information.
 
   7.4.   Appeal to Corinne City before Payment of the Impact Fee. Any affected
or potentially affected person or entity who wishes to challenge an impact fee
under this Ordinance prior to payment thereof shall file a written Request for
Information concerning the fee and proceed under Corinne City's appeal
procedures as set forth in Section 7.6 herein.
 
   7.5.   Appeal to Corinne City after Payment of the Impact Fee; Statute of
Limitations for Failure to File. Any person or entity that has paid an impact
fee under this Ordinance and wishes to challenge the fee shall file a notice of
appeal with the Corinne City Town Clerk/Recorder that contains the following:
 
(a)    the appellant’s name, mailing address and daytime phone number;
 
(b)    a copy of the written Request for Information and a brief summary of the
grounds for appeal; and
 
(c)    the relief sought.
 
   The notice of appeal shall be filed as provided below:
 
(a)    if the appellant is challenging compliance with the notice requirements
of Title 11, Chapter 36a of the Impact Fees Act with respect to the imposition
of the impact fee, the notice of appeal must be filed within thirty (30) days
after payment of the impact fee;
 
(b)    if the appellant is challenging compliance with other, non-notice,
procedural requirements of Title 11, Chapter 36a of the Impact Fees Act with
respect to the imposition of the impact fee, the notice of appeal must be filed
within one hundred and eighty (180) days after payment of the impact fee; and
 
(c)    if the appellant is challenging the impact fee, the notice of appeal
must be filed within one year after payment of the impact fee.
 
   7.6.   Appeals to Corinne City. Any developer, landowner or affected party
desiring to challenge the legality of any impact fee under this Ordinance shall
appeal directly to Corinne City by filing a notice of appeal with Corinne City
either prior to payment of the impact fee but within thirty (30) days of the
decision or action to which the appeal relates or after payment of the impact
fee and within the applicable time period set forth in Section 7.5 herein. If a
notice of appeal is not filed with Corinne City Town Clerk/Recorder within the
applicable time period set forth above, the person or entity is barred from
proceeding with an administrative appeal to Corinne City:
 
(a)   Hearing.  An informal hearing will be held not sooner than five (5) days
nor more than fifteen (15) days after the written notice of appeal is filed.
 
(b)   Decision . After the conclusion of the informal hearing, the Mayor shall
affirm, reverse, or take action with respect to the challenge or appeal as the
mayor deems appropriate. The decision of the Mayor will be issued within thirty
(30) days after the date the written notice of appeal was filed. In light of
the statutorily mandated time restriction, Corinne City shall not be required
to provide more than three (3) working days’ prior notice of the time, date,
and location of the informal hearing and the inconvenience of the hearing to
the challenging party shall not serve as a basis of appeal of Corinne City's
final determination.
 
   7.7.    Denial Due to Passage of Time. Should Corinne City, for any reason,
fail to issue a final decision on a written challenge to an impact fee, its
calculation or application, within thirty (30) days after the filing of the
notice of appeal, the challenge shall be deemed to have been denied and any
affected party to the proceedings may seek appropriate judicial relief from
such denial.
 
   7.8.    Judicial Review. Any party to the administrative action who is
adversely affected by Corinne City's final decision must petition the district
court for a review of the decision within thirty (30) days of Corinne City's
final decision upholding an impact fee, its calculation or application, or
within sixty (60) days after the written challenge to the impact fee, its
calculation or application, was filed with Corinne City, whichever is earlier.
After having been served with a copy of the pleadings initiating the court
review, Corinne City shall submit to the court the record of the proceedings
before Corinne City, including minutes, and if available, a true and correct
transcript of any proceedings.
 
   Section 8.    Severability .
 
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, clause, or phrase of this ordinance
shall be declared invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect the
remaining provisions of this Ordinance, which shall remain in full force and
effect, and for this purpose, the provisions of this Ordinance are declared to
be severable.
 
   Section 9.    Record of Proceedings.
 
   The Town Clerk/Recorder is hereby directed to complete and execute the
Record of Proceedings attached hereto as EXHIBIT D to officially record the
proceedings at which this Ordinance was considered for adoption.
 
   Section 10.   Exhibits.
 
   All exhibits to this Ordinance are hereby incorporated herein by reference
and are made a part hereof as though fully set forth herein.
 
   Section 11.    Effectiveness.
 
   This ordinance shall become effective on August 21, 2024, a date which is at
least 90 days after the adoption of this ordinance.
 
**Signatures on Following Page**
 
APPROVED AND ADOPTED this ______ day of May 2024.
 
                     
 
                     TOWN OF CORINNE CITY, UTAH
   
 
   ______________________________________
                  Mayor
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
______________________________________
Town Clerk/Recorder
EXHIBIT A
 
(Culinary Water Master Plan)
EXHIBIT B
 
(Wastewater System Master Plan)
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
(Impact Fee Analyses)
EXHIBIT D
 
(Record of Proceedings)
 
   The Town Council (the “Town Council”) of the Town of Corinne City, Box Elder
County, Utah, met in public session at the regular meeting place of the Town
Council at 2420 North 4000 West in Corinne, Utah, on May 21, 2024 (the
“Meeting”), at the hour of 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as feasible, with
the following members of the Town Council being present:
 
Shane Baton    Mayor
Karen Caldwell Town Councilmember
Ann Whitaker   Town Councilmember
Greg Harris    Town Councilmember
Tom Little     Town Councilmember
Wade Layton    Town Councilmember
 
Also present:
 
Kendra Norman Town Clerk/Recorder
 
Absent:   
 
which constituted all the members thereof.
 
   After the Meeting had been duly called to order and after other matters were
discussed, and the public hearings were held, the foregoing ordinance (the
“Ordinance”) was introduced in written form and fully discussed.
 
   A motion to adopt the Ordinance was then duly made by Ann Whitaker and
seconded by Karen Caldwell, and the Ordinance was put to a vote and carried,
the vote being as follows:
 
   Those voting YEA: Greg Harris, Ann Whitaker, Tom Little, Karen Caldwell and
Wade Layton   
 
   Those voting NAY:    
 
   Those Abstaining:    
 
   Other business not pertinent to the Ordinance appears in the minutes of the
Meeting. Upon the conclusion of all business on the Agenda and motion duly made
and carried, the Meeting was adjourned.
CERTIFICATE OF TOWN CLERK/RECORDER
 
   I, Kendra Norman, the duly appointed and qualified Town Clerk/Recorder of
Town of Corinne City (the “Corinne City”), do hereby certify that the attached
Ordinance is a true, accurate and complete copy thereof as adopted by the Town
Council of Corinne City at a public meeting duly held on May 21, 2024 (the
“Meeting”). The persons present and the result of the vote taken at the Meeting
are all as shown above. The Ordinance, with all exhibits attached, was
deposited in my office on May 21, 2024, and is officially of record in my
possession.
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and impressed
hereon the official seal of the Corinne City, this May 21, 2024.
 
 
 
______________________________________
                  Town Clerk/Recorder
 
[SEAL]
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH
OPEN MEETINGS LAW
 
   I, Kendra Norman, the undersigned Town Clerk/Recorder of Town of Corinne
City (“Corinne City”), do hereby certify, according to the records of the
Corinne City in my official possession, and upon my own knowledge and belief,
that in accordance with the requirements of Section 52-4-202, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended, I gave not less than twenty-four (24) hours public
notice of the agenda, date, time and place of the May 21, 2024, public meeting
held by the governing body of the Corinne City as follows:
 
(a)    By causing a notice, in the form attached hereto (the “Meeting Notice”),
to be posted at the principal office of Corinne City at least twenty-four (24)
hours prior to the convening of the meeting, the Meeting Notice having
continuously remained so posted and available for public inspection until the
completion of the meeting; and
 
(b)    By causing a copy of the Meeting Notice to be posted on the Corinne City
Website at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the convening of the meeting.
 
(c)    By causing a copy of the Meeting Notice to be posted on the Utah Public
Notice Website at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the convening of the
meeting.
 
   In addition, I caused a copy of the Notice of the Public Hearings on the
Impact Fee Analyses and Impact Fee Ordinance, in the form attached hereto, to
be posted in three public places at least ten (10) days prior to the hearings.
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my official signature this
____day of ______, 2024.
 
 
____________________________________
                  Town Clerk/Recorder
 
(SEAL)
 
 
(Attach Meeting Notice)
 
(Attach Notice of Public Hearings)
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE # 24-02
 
ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE STIPEND OF ELECTED AND COMPENSATION OF STATUTORY
OFFICERS OF CORINNE CITY CORPORATION.
 
Whereas, the number of duties assigned to each elective officer has increased
significantly and each elected officer is required to devote more time to the
effective administration of this municipality, and
 
Whereas, public service obligates elected officers to spend their own money in
the service of the municipality, and
 
Whereas, elected officers should be compensated for their time and expenses,
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CORINNE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CORINNE THAT:
 
1.    Repealer - All previous salary or compensation ordinances regarding
elected and statutory officers hereby are repealed.
 
2.    Stipend – The monthly Stipend of the elected officers shall be as
follows:
 
LEGISLATIVE/ADMINISTRATIVE
         Mayor            $ 400.00
         Councilmember      $ 100.00
         Planning Commission      $ 50.00
         
         PUBLIC SAFETY
         Fire Chief         $200.00
         Asst. Chief         $100.00
         Captains         $ 75.00
         Secretary         $ 50.00
 
3.    Compensation – The biweekly compensation of statutory officers and
employees shall be as follows:
 
STATUTORY/EMPLOYEES
Treasurer          Grade 6
         Recorder           Grade 10
         Deputy Recorder       Grade 9
         Public Works Director     Grade 11
         Public Works          Grade 11
         Animal Control Officer   $20.00 Per Call/Per Hour
 
          
 
4.    Payment – The Recorder shall pay each elected officer on the first
regular business day of each month. The Recorder shall also pay all statutory
officers bi-weekly payable on Friday by delivery of a check drawn on the
municipal checking account.
 
5.    Per Diem – Each member of the governing body shall receive mileage and
per diem for all trips approved by the governing body according to the
schedules adopted by the State of Utah and Federal per diem rate.
 
6.    Effective Date – This ordinance shall become effective June 16, 2024.
 
 
 
 
 
Passed this _________ day of ______________________, 2024
 
 
MAYOR_____________________________________
 
ATTEST:
RECORDER__________________________________
 
 
ORDINANCE 24-03
 
AN ORDINANCE EXPANDING THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF
CORINNE CITY BY ANNEXATION
 
WHEREAS, Utah Code Section 10-2 Part 4 establishes procedures for the expansion
of municipal boundaries by annexation; and
 
WHEREAS, Utah Code Section 10-2 Part 4 requires petitions for annexation to
contain the signature of the property owners of at least 50% of the land area
and 1/3 of the land value of private real property within the area proposed for
annexation; and
 
WHEREAS, a petition dated April 18, 2024 was received by Corinne City Recorder
requesting annexation and signed by Onions 52; and
 
WHEREAS, the petition requesting this annexation contains the signatures
representing 100% of private land area and 100% of private real property value
within the area proposed for annexation; and
 
WHEREAS, annexation of the property represented by signature on the petition
would not create islands or leave peninsulas of unincorporated property; and
 
WHEREAS, following all procedures required by Utah Code Section 10-2 Part 4,
the Corinne City Council has held a public hearing and finds that the
annexation of the property shown on the plat of the annexation is desirable and
in the best interest of the citizens of Corinne City and will protect the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Corinne City.
 
NOW THEREFORE, at a regular meeting of the City Council of Corinne City, Utah
held on September 17, 2024, it is hereby ordained that the property described
in Exhibit A is hereupon annexed into Corinne City, and the city limits of said
City are hereby adjusted accordingly; and
 
BE IT ORDAINED that said annexed property shall hereafter be subject to all
ordinances, jurisdictions, rules and obligations pertinent to said land; and
 
BE IT ORDAINED that, within 30 days after enacting this ordinance, the Corinne
City Recorder shall file with the Lt. Governor’s Office a copy of the plat map
and this ordinance; and
 
BE IT ORDAINED that, upon receipt of the certificate of annexation from the Lt.
Governor’s Office, said property shall be deemed complete, and the property so
annexed shall be deemed and held to be part of Corinne City, and thereafter
inhabitants of said property shall enjoy the privileges if the annexation and
be subject to the ordinances, resolutions and regulations of Corinne City.
 
This ordinance shall become effective upon its adoption.
 
Past and adopted by the City Council of Corinne City, State of Utah on this
17th day of September, 2024.
 
            
            _____________________________________________
            Mayor Shane Baton
 
 
State of Utah      )
 
         : ss
 
County of Box Elder   )
 
On the 17th day of September, 2024, personally appeared before me Shane Baton
who being duly sworn by me did say, for himself that he is the said authorized
agent of Corinne City Corporation, and that the forgoing instrument was signed
on behalf of said Corinne City Corporation, and that the said authorized agent
did duly acknowledge to me that said corporation executed the same.
 
 
 
               _______________________________________
               Notary Public
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-01
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CORINNE CITY COUNCIL REPEALING AND REPLACING PORTIONS OF
TITLE 9 SUBDIVISION AND MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OF THE CORINNE CITY CODE
 
WHEREAS Corinne City (the “City”), is a political subdivision of the State of
Utah, the governing body of which is a duly constituted City Council (the
“Council”); and
 
WHEREAS the City is a municipality governed in part by the Utah Code Title 10,
Utah Municipal Code; and
 
WHEREAS the City desires to update its land use ordinances consistent with Utah
Code Title 10 Chapter 9a, Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act;
and
WHEREAS the Council has reviewed and approved the attached Title 9 amendments;
NOW THEREFORE,  be it ordained by the City Council of Corinne City as follows:
 
1.   Portions of Title 9 Subdivision and Master Planned Development are hereby
repealed.
2.   Title 9 amendments, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit
A, is hereby approved and identified as Ord. 25-01.
3.   This Ordinance shall take effect upon its adoption.
Approved, Adopted and ORDAINED by the City Council of Corinne City on this 18th
day of February, 2025.
 
 
_______________________
MAYOR SHANE BATON               
 
 
 
_________________________________
ATTEST
EXHIBIT A
Title 9
Subdivision and Master Planned Development Amendments
 
 
 
ARTICLE B.
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
9-8B-1: General Procedure
9-8B-2: Agricultural Exemption
9-8B-3: Boundary Adjustments and Boundary Line Agreements
9-8B-4: Simple Lot Subdivision
9-8B-5: Simple Lot Subdivision Contents
9-8B-6: Simple Lot Subdivision Submittal, Approval and Recordation
9-8B-7: Simple Lot Subdivision Construction of Improvements and Building
Permits
9-8B-8: Pre-Application Meeting
9-8B-9: Submittal and Review of Preliminary Plans and Subdivision Improvement
Plans
9-8B-10: Preliminary Plan Contents
9-8B-11: Preliminary Plan Approval
9-8B-12: Duration of Preliminary Plan Approval
9-8B-13: Submittal and Review of Final Plats
9-8B-14: Final Plat Contents
9-8B-15: Final Plat Approval and Recordation
 
9-8B-1: GENERAL PROCEDURE:
   A. All Plats Comply: Every plat shall conform to existing zoning regulations
and subdivision regulations applicable at the time of application, except that
any plat which has received preliminary approval shall be exempt from any
subsequent amendments to the subdivision and master planned development code
rendering the plat nonconforming as to bulk or use, provided the final approval
is obtained within the permitted time frame.
B.  Classification Of Subdivisions: Whenever any subdivision of land is
proposed, before any contract is made for the sale of any part thereof, and
before any permit for the erection of a structure in such proposed subdivision
shall be granted, the subdividing owner, or authorized agent, shall apply for
and secure approval of such proposed subdivision in accordance with the
following procedure:
 1.  Simple Lot Subdivision: Pre-application meeting (optional), final
subdivision record of survey.
 2.  Subdivision: Pre-application meeting (optional), preliminary plat with
subdivision improvement plan, and final subdivision plat.
  C.  Official Submission Dates: The date of submittal occurs when a complete
application, which includes all required submittal contents, is formally
submitted to the City. The date of an incomplete submittal shall not be
considered.
  D.  Phasing Plan Required:
 1.  When Phasing Plan Required: For large developments that will be
constructed in phases, the developer shall submit a phasing plan to address
public improvements and the timing of development. This plan shall be submitted
as part of the Preliminary Plan submittal contents and shall be reviewed by the
Administrative Land Use Authority as part of the approval process.
 2.  Phasing Plan Requirements: A phasing plan shall include:
  a.  A map showing the general location of the phases and public
infrastructure to be included with each phase
b. The number of units or parcels to be developed in each phase and the timing
of each phase.
  c.  The timing on construction of public improvements and subdivision
amenities to serve each phase, whether on and/or off site.
  d.  The relationship between the public improvements in the current
subdivision and contiguous land previously subdivided and yet to be subdivided.
 3.  Phasing Consistency: If the subdivision is in an area covered by an
approved master planned development which has a phasing plan, the phasing plan
for the subdivision shall be consistent with the phasing plan for the master
planned development.
4. Performance Guarantee: The Planning Commission may agree to divide the
performance guarantee into phases, consistent with the phasing plan. The
improvements and cost estimate per phase shall be in such amount as is
commensurate with the phase and may defer the remaining required performance
guarantee principal amount until the remaining phases of the plat are offered
for filing.
 4.  Revisions: A developer may request a revision of the phasing plan which
may be necessary due to such conditions as changing market conditions,
inclement weather or other factors.
5. Approval: For a phasing plan to be approved, the Administrative Land Use
Authority shall determine that the phasing plan securely demonstrates that all
required public facilities and infrastructure shall be adequately provided for
each phase, without the need to rely on construction planned in subsequent
phases. If this cannot be determined, the Administrative Land Use Authority
shall deny the phasing plan.
9-8B-2: AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTION
A.   A lot or parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is exempt
from the subdivision plat requirements of this Section, as per Utah Code 10-9a-
605(2), if the lot(s):
1.   Qualifies as land in agricultural use under UCA 59-2-5 Farmland Assessment
Act;
2.   Is not used and will not be used for nonagricultural purposes; and
3.   Meets the minimum size of six (6) acres.
B.   The boundaries of each lot or parcel that is exempted shall be graphically
illustrated on a Record of Survey map that has received the approval of the
Zoning Administrator, Building Official and the same Administrative Land Use
Authority as a Preliminary Plat.
C.   If a lot or parcel exempted as agricultural land is used for
nonagricultural purposes as defined by the Farmland Assessment Act, the City
shall require the lot or parcel to comply with the related plat requirements of
this Section.
D.   When the above requirements have been met, the property owner shall file
the Record of Survey with the County Surveyor within fourteen (14) days of
approval.
E.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose of
joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel, nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates the provisions of
Corinne City Code.
9-8B-3: BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS AND BOUNDARY LINE AGREEMENTS
A.   To make a property boundary adjustment (i.e., parcel or lot line
adjustment), a property owner shall meet the requirements of UCA 10-9a-523.
B.   To execute a boundary line agreement, a property owner shall meet the
requirements of UCA 10-9a-524.
9-8B-4: SIMPLE LOT SUBDIVISION
A Simple Lot Subdivision is a metes and bounds record of survey, as outlined in
Utah Code 10-9a-605, that is exempted from completing the Preliminary and Final
Plat Subdivision process. If a proposed subdivision cannot meet these
standards, the applicant will instead need to complete the Preliminary and
Final Plat Subdivision process.
A.   Simple Lot Subdivisions may be approved for subdivisions of six (6) or
fewer single family residential lots where those lots conform to lot size,
dimensions, frontage, and all other applicable zoning standards.
1.   The lot frontage shall be along an existing developed street.
2.   The existing public street is, or public streets are, already built to
city standards, with no additional street improvements required.
3.   All required utilities are adjacent to each proposed lot and no additional
public infrastructure improvements are required.
4.   The owners of individual lots shall be responsible for installing
individual laterals at the time of building permit.
B.   To qualify for a Simple Lot Subdivision division, the following shall be
true:
1.   The parcel is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed street as
shown in the general plan or any transportation plans,
2.   The parcel is located in a residential or agricultural zone,
3.   The proposed Simple Lot Subdivision has been approved by the respective
culinary water and sanitary sewer authority, and
4.   The division conforms to all applicable Land Use Ordinances or has
properly received a variance from the requirements of an otherwise conflicting
and applicable Land Use Ordinance.
9-8B-5: SIMPLE LOT SUBDIVISION CONTENTS
Application for Simple Lot Subdivision Plat approval can be made by submitting
a complete application to Corinne City. The following materials are required
for a complete application:
A.   Payment of the application fee.
B.   A PDF file of the Record of Survey Map to the City in a format approved by
the City and County. The Record of Survey Map shall contain the following:
1.   All applicable required elements as outlined in Utah Code 17-23-17
2.   A statement that “All drinking water and any pressurized irrigation lines
up to and including the meter, all sanitary sewer mains, all electric meters,
and all electric and communication service lines up to the mast on overhead
installations and to the top of the meter base for underground installations
are dedicated to Corinne City.”
3.   A statement that “All public utility easements shown hereon are in
perpetuity for installation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of public
utilities, public walls, fences, sidewalks, trails, and appurtenant parts
thereof and the right to reasonable access to grantor’s easement shall run with
the real property and shall be binding upon the grantor and the grantor’s
successors, heirs and assigns.”
4.   All offsite easements required to provide services or utilities to the
project shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s office prior to or in
conjunction with the Simple Lot Subdivision recordation.
C.   The following documents must accompany the Simple Lot Subdivision, as
determined by the City Engineer:
1.   Soils Reports. A soils report shall provide a detail of lot by lot summary
addressing finished floor elevation including basements. The report shall
include a minimum height factor for peak month in a wet year.
2.   Storm Water Plan. The developer shall provide a final drainage plan and
report according to the Storm Water Drainage Design Manual.
3.   Mass Grading Plan. The developer shall provide a final subdivision grading
plan showing each individual property. The site shall be designed to eliminate
flooding or standing water on any private property.
9-8B-6: SIMPLE LOT SUBDIVISION SUBMITTAL, APPROVAL, AND FILING
A. Pre-Application Meeting: An applicant may request a pre-application meeting
to discuss the procedure for approval and obtain guidance on compliance with
subdivision regulations. At the pre-application meeting, the applicant shall be
prepared to discuss:
1.   General layout of lots, streets and street improvements, circulation and
access, drainage, water, sewer, fire protection
2.   Natural hazards and mitigation measures
B. Submittal: The applicant shall submit a complete application including all
submittal contents.
C. Review: The City will review the submission and notify the applicant of any
changes that must be made.
D. Expiration: A Simple Lot Subdivision application expires if the applicant
does not provide a complete resubmittal within twelve (12) months from the time
review comments are provided.
E. Resubmittal: Once required corrections are made, a PDF file of the record of
survey map must be submitted to the City. The City shall review the
resubmittal. Once the individuals reviewing the submittal on behalf of the City
have determined that the submittal meets all requirements, the application
shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission for approval.
F. Approval: At a regular public meeting, the Planning Commission shall approve
the Record of Survey if it is found to meet all requirements. The Planning
Commission shall deny or remand the application if it is found to not meet or
include all requirements.
G. Filing: Following approval by the Planning Commission, the Simple Lot
Subdivision Record of Survey bearing all official approvals shall be filed with
Box Elder County.
1. Only the City may file the Record of Survey.
2. A Written Certificate of Approval, stating that the City has approved the
Record of Survey, shall accompany the filing. The certificate shall include a
signature by the Planning Commission Chair and the City Clerk/Recorder. This
shall be recorded at the Office of the County Recorder on title of all subject
parcels.
H. Expiration: Approval expires, and the Simple Lot Subdivision application
must be resubmitted, if the Record of Survey is not filed within twelve (12)
months of approval.
I. Inspection Fees: All inspection, testing and/or connection fees required by
ordinance shall be paid and permits required shall be obtained prior to filing
of the Simple Lot Subdivision Record of Survey. At a minimum, this shall
include any County filing and recording fees.
9-8B-7: SIMPLE LOT SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS AND BUILDING
PERMITS
A.   All Building Permits for the subdivision shall comply with any Development
Soils Report and Mass Grading Plan, if applicable.
B.   If located in a flood zone, flood elevation certificates shall be reviewed
and approved by the City Engineer or his/her designee as required.
C.   For purposes of water and sewer connections, the property line is defined
as the property line of a lot or parcel of land that fronts on a dedicated
street where water and sewer are located. Water will be considered at the
property line in a simple lot subdivision if they are extended along the
property line to the extent required by the City Engineer. Sewer will be run to
the property by the developer or property owner.
D.   No connection fees will be collected until such time as a building permit
is issued to the property owner. The builder/property owner will bear the
entire cost of installing the sewer line from the main line. This cost is in
addition to the standard City sewer hookup fee. The City water hookup fee will
normally cover the cost of installing the water line from the main line to the
meter. Electricity continues to be required to be brought to the deeded
property line of each lot or parcel. More than one lot or parcel can be
serviced from one pole based on requirements as established by the electric
contractor. A drop line must be at each lot, but a single line can feed more
than one lot.
E.   Building Permits: The City may issue a building permit once the Record of
Survey is filed and all improvements which are necessary to meet the building
and fire codes are installed and accepted by the City Engineer.
9-8B-8: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING:
This procedure is optional, at the discretion of the applicant, before
application submittal of any preliminary or final plat.
A.   An applicant for a subdivision may request a pre-application meeting with
the City. At this meeting, the City will provide:
1.   information on accessing applicable land use ordinances,
2.   a complete list of standards required for the project,
3.   preliminary and final application checklists, and
4.   feedback on the concept plan.
B.   With regard to a pre-application meeting, the following shall apply:
1.   The applicant shall submit a concept plan for staff review
2.   The municipality shall, within fifteen (15) business days after the
request, schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give initial
feedback
3.   At the pre-application meeting, the City shall provide or have made
available on the municipal website the following:
i.   Copies of the applicable land use regulations
ii.   A complete list of standards required for the project
iii.   Preliminary and Final Plat checklist
4.   Pre-application review of a concept plan does not create any vested rights
and feedback on the concept plan does not grant or infer any official standing
or approval. The applicant is responsible to adhere to the ordinance.
C.   The Concept Plan shall include the following:
1.   A plan of the entire project area showing:
i.   the general layout of the proposed subdivision, overall project acreage,
and relationship to adjacent properties
ii.   the location of each proposed lot
iii.   the dimensions and size of each lot
iv.   the location, width and general configuration of proposed roads in the
subdivision
v.   major canals and water sources in the vicinity
2.   Brief written statement or oral presentation in sufficient detail that the
intent of the subdivider is clear to those who review the proposals.
i.   Current and proposed zoning
ii.   Proposed use of the property
iii.   Manner for complying with the improvement guarantee and any other public
improvements
3.   Feasibility:
i.   Review of available water resources and water and sewer connections
4.   Any phasing plan, if applicable
9-8B-9: SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLANS AND SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT
PLANS
This chapter outlines the process to submit and review preliminary plans and
the accompanying subdivision improvement plan. The intention is for the
definitions and process for application, review, and approval to follow Utah
State Code 10-9a-604, et seq.
A.   Prior Approvals: If the application requires legislative approvals, such
as a zone change, annexation, general plan amendment, right of way or easement
vacation, or any other legislative action, the legislative approval shall be
completed prior to submittal of the preliminary plan application.
1.   The City Council may grant an approval contingent on completion of the
subdivision process within a given time frame.
B.   Optional Pre-Application Meeting: Prior to submitting a Preliminary Plan,
the applicant may request a Pre-Application Meeting to review the Concept Plan
with applicable City staff or representatives, as outlined in the prior
chapter.
C.   Application Provided: The City shall provide, or have available on the
City website, each of the following:
1.   The Preliminary Plan application
2.   The owner’s affidavit
3.   A breakdown of application fees
4.   A copy of the applicable land use ordinance
5.   Complete list of standards required for the project
6.   Preliminary Plan drawings checklists
D.   Submittal: To apply for Preliminary Plan approval, applicants must follow
instructions on the form provided by the City and submit all required
materials, including:
1.   Complete Preliminary Plan application
2.   Owner’s affidavit
3.   An electronic copy of all plans in a PDF format
4.   Preliminary and Subdivision Improvement Plan drawings
5.   Payment of all Preliminary Plan fees
6.   All other required details, specifications, information, permits, will-
serve letters, and other information as detailed in City Code, City development
standards, and any regulations by other applicable jurisdictions.
E.   Check for Completeness: The City will review the submission for
completeness.
1.   If the submittal includes all materials, the City receives the submittal
and starts the first review cycle.
2.   If the submittal is found to be incomplete, the submittal is returned to
the applicant. No review shall commence until the City has made a determination
that the application is complete.
F.   Water Conveyance Facilities: If the location is within one hundred (100)
feet of a water conveyance facility, within twenty (20) calendar days after
receipt of the completed application, the City shall notify in writing the
Water Conveyance Facility Owner(s) of the Application and request comments
related to the following aspects of the water conveyance facility: access,
maintenance, protection, safety, and any other issues related.
1.   Any Water Conveyance Facility shall have at least twenty (20) days to
respond. While the City may provide comments to the applicant before this
twenty (20) day window is complete, the Administrative Land Authority shall not
grant approval until after at least twenty (20) days after the day on which the
City mailed notice to the Water Conveyance Facility.
2.   Water Conveyance Facility: Shall mean a ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or
other watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or stormwater
drainage and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or
other watercourse. See State Code 73-1-15.5-1b
G.   City Review Time Frame: Within forty (40) days the City shall complete a
review of the preliminary plan and subdivision improvement plan, except as
follows:
1.   Geological Hazard Areas: The review cycle dates restrictions and
requirements do not apply to the review of subdivision applications affecting
property within identified geological hazard areas.
2.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single family,
two family, and townhome developments. It does not apply to other land uses,
such as commercial, industrial development, or other multifamily development.
H.   Determination of Corrections Required: After review, the City will
determine if the completed application meets all requirements or requires
corrective actions and shall notify the applicant in a written response. This
marks the end of the respective review cycle.
1.   Application Requires Corrections: If the application is found to require
corrections, the City must be specific and cite the ordinance, statute, or
specifications that require the modification. Comments shall be logged in an
index of requested modifications or additions. The required corrections are
sent to the applicant to prepare a resubmittal.
2.   Additional Information Required: The City may require additional
information relating to the applicant’s plans to ensure compliance with
municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction
of public improvements.
3.   Application Meets All Standards: If the applicant is found to meet all
codes, standards, and specifications, the application is forwarded to the
Administrative Land Use Authority for review and approval.
I.   Application Expiration: An application is expired if the applicant does
not respond to a request for corrections by submitting a complete resubmittal
within twelve (12) months.
J.   Resubmittal: After receiving the list of required modifications or
additions, the applicant’s resubmittal shall include a written explanation in
response to each of the municipality’s review comments, identifying and
explaining the applicant’s revisions or reasons for declining to make the
revisions.
1.   New Review Cycle: An applicant’s resubmittal shall constitute a new review
cycle.
K.   Check for Completeness: The City shall review the resubmittal to ensure
the applicant has responded to each item logged in the index of requested
modifications or additions.
1.   If the response does not address each item, the City shall return the
submittal to the applicant.
L.   City Review of Resubmittal
1.   Time Frame: The time frame to complete the review depends on how quickly
the applicant was able to respond to the corrections in full and if the
applicant made any material changes.
i.   If the applicant responded within forty (40) days, the City has forty (40)
days to complete the second review cycle.
ii.   If the applicant responded after forty (40) days, the City has sixty (60)
days to complete the second review cycle.
iii.   If the applicant made a material change that merits a new review, then
the review shall restart at the first review cycle as it relates to the new
material.
2.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single family,
two family, and townhome developments. It does not apply to other land uses,
such as commercial, industrial, or other multifamily development.
3.   New Corrections: If the City neglected to include a required change or
correction in the initial review process, the modification or correction can
only be imposed on subsequent reviews if it is necessary to protect public
health and safety or to enforce state or federal law.
4.   Determination of Corrections Required: At the end of the City’s review,
the City shall make a determination of corrections required, if any, as
outlined in subsection (H).
M.   Fourth Review Cycle: An application for Preliminary Plan and Subdivision
Improvement Plan approval shall not exceed four (4) review cycles.
1.   Fourth Review: If, after the fourth (4) review cycle the application is
found to not meet all required corrections, the application shall be forwarded
to the Administrative Land Use Authority for review with a recommendation that
the application does not meet all codes, standards, and specification.
i.   Appeal: The applicant may appeal this determination as outlined in Utah
Code 10-9a-604.2(11), as amended.
N.   Application Ready for Approval: If the City determines that the
resubmittal is now complete and meets all codes, standards, and specifications,
the resubmittal shall be forwarded to the Administrative Land Use Authority to
complete the review.
1.   If the City finds the resubmittal does not comply with all applicable
codes, standards, and specifications, another review letter and index of
requested modifications or additions shall be created and sent to the
applicant.
i.   This shall be provided to the applicant up until the fourth review cycle,
at which point the application shall be forward or to the Administrative Land
Use Authority for review with a recommendation that the application does not
meet all codes, standards, and specification. The applicant may appeal this
determination as outlined in Utah Code 10-9a-604.2(11), as amended.
O.   Dispute of Determination: If, on the fourth and final review, a
municipality fails to respond within forty (40) business days, the municipality
shall, upon request of the property owner, and within ten (10) business days
after the day on which the request is received:
1.   Subdivision Improvement Plan Dispute: For a dispute arising from the
subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah
Code 10-9a-508(5)(d) to review and approve or deny the final revised set of
plans; or
2.   Preliminary Plan Dispute: For a dispute arising from the subdivision
ordinance review, advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the
application and of the right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal
authority.
The appeal authority shall be the City Council.   
9-8B-10: PRELIMINARY PLAN CONTENTS
A.   Each Preliminary Plan shall be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount
established in the fee schedule by the City Council.
B.   Each Preliminary Plan and Subdivision Improvement Plan shall contain all
required items included in this Title, including Article E “Subdivision
Submittal Requirements.”
9-8B-11: PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL
A.   Administrative Land Use Authority: The Administrative Land Use Authority
shall be the Planning Commission.
1.   Unless otherwise required under Utah State Code, no public hearing shall
be held.
B.   Approval: If the Administrative Land Use Authority finds the applicant has
completed all requirements addressed during review, and the proposed plat and
subdivision improvement plan comply with the requirements of this Title and all
adopted standards and specifications, then it shall approve the Preliminary
Plan and Subdivision Improvement Plan.
C.   Corrections Required: The Administrative Land Use Authority shall remand
the application back to the applicant for a new review cycle, unless the
applicant has already completed four (4) review cycles, if the Administrative
Land Use Authority finds that either:
1.   The applicant has not completed all requirements as outlined in the review
index, or
2.   The application does not address all requirements, and although the item
was not addressed in the first review, the requirement relates directly to
public health and safety.
D.   Denial: The Administrative Land Use Authority shall deny the application
if either:
1.   The applicant is unwilling to make required corrections or provide
required information.
2.   The application has completed the fourth (4) review cycle and the
applicant has failed to meet the stated requirements.
9-8B-12: Duration of Preliminary Plan Approval
A.   Approval of the Preliminary Plan by the City shall be valid for a period
of twelve (12) months after approval.
1.   If an applicant has not submitted a complete application for Final Plat
approval within twelve (12) months, the Preliminary Plan and Subdivision
Improvement Plan approval is deemed to have lapsed.
2.   For a Preliminary Plan with multiple phases, the Plan remains active
provided a Final Plat is recorded at least every 24 months. If a Final Plat has
not been recorded within the 24-month period, the Preliminary Plan must again
be submitted to the City for re-approval.
9-8B-13: SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW OF FINAL PLATS
A.   Time Frame: Within twelve (12) months after approval of the Preliminary
Plan and Subdivision Improvement Plan the applicant must make a complete Final
Plat submittal.
B.   Pre-Application Meeting: An applicant may request a pre-application
meeting. If so, the City and the applicant follow the provisions of Corinne
City Code 9-8B-3 before proceeding to the next step.
C.   Application Provided: The City shall provide, or have available on the
City website, each of the following:
1.   The Final Plat application
2.   The owner’s affidavit
3.   A breakdown of application fees
4.   A copy of the applicable land use ordinance
5.   Complete list of standards required for the project
6.   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format
D.   Application is made by following instructions on the form provided by the
City and submitting all required materials, including the following:
1.   A (PDF) file of the plat.
2.   All fees for the Final Plat application are due upon filing the
application.
3.   All other information required on the Final Plat Checklist and necessary
to determine compliance with this code and all applicable regulations.
E.   Check for Completeness: The City checks the submittal for completeness.
1.   If the submittal includes all materials, the City receives the submittal
and starts the review.
2.   If the submittal is found to be incomplete, the submittal is returned to
the applicant. No review shall commence until the City has made a determination
that the application is complete.
F.   City Review Time Frame: After a determination that the application
submittal is complete, the City begins its review. The City has a thirty (30)
day review window to conduct its review and provide comments to the applicant.
1.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single family,
two family, and townhome developments. It does not apply to other land uses,
such as commercial, industrial, or other multifamily development.
G.   Water Conveyance Facilities: If the location is within one hundred (100)
feet of a water conveyance facility, within twenty (20) calendar days after
receipt of the completed application, the City shall notify in writing the
Water Conveyance Facility Owner(s) of the Application and request comments
related to the following aspects of the water conveyance facility: access,
maintenance, protection, safety, and any other issues related.
1.   Any Water Conveyance Facility shall have at least twenty (20) days to
respond. While the City may provide comments to the applicant before this
twenty (20) day window is complete, the Administrative Land Use Authority shall
not grant approval until after at least twenty (20) days after the day on which
the City mailed notice to the Water Conveyance Facility.
2.   Water Conveyance Facility: Shall mean a ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or
other watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or stormwater
drainage and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or
other watercourse. See State Code 73-1-15.5-1b.
H.    Attorney Review: During review, the City Attorney shall review the Final
Plat and shall recommend approval if the attorney finds that:
1.   There is a current title opinion from a licensed title company showing
that the person dedicating the property described on the Final Plat is the
title owner as shown on the records of the Box Elder County Recorder's Office.
2.   The performance bond, escrow deposit, letter of credit, or trust deed with
the City is in appropriate form and signed by the necessary parties.
3.   The dedication is accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of
dedication to the public of all required streets, City uses, utilities, parks
and easements, in a form approved by the City attorney; and the subdivision
plat shall be marked with a notation indicating the formal offers of
dedication, as follows:
i.   The owner, or their representative, hereby irrevocably offers for
dedication to Corinne City all the streets, land for local government uses,
easements, parks and required water and sewer utilities and easements shown on
the subdivision plat and construction plans in accordance with an irrevocable
offer of dedication.
4.   If required by the City attorney, the applicant shall deliver a full
covenant and warranty deed to all such lands in proper form for recording,
together with a title policy for the City in the sum not less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), which sum shall be determined by the City attorney and/or
engineer before signing of the final subdivision plat.
5.   That the subdivision does not, in the attorney’s opinion, violate any
ordinance of the City or the laws of the State of Utah of the rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
I.   Determination of Corrections Required: Within the review window specified
in Subsection (F) the City shall complete a review of the Final Plat and all
submittal content and provide a response to the applicant. The City shall
determine whether the completed application meets all requirements or requires
corrective actions and shall notify the applicant in a written response.
1.   Application Requires Corrections: If the application is found to require
corrections, the City must be specific and cite the ordinance, statute, or
specifications that require the modification. Comments shall be logged in an
index of requested modifications or additions. The required corrections are
sent to the applicant to prepare a resubmittal.
2.   Additional Information Required: The City may require additional
information relating to the applicant’s plans to ensure compliance with
municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications.
3.   Application Meets All Standards: If the applicant is found to meet all
codes, standards, and specifications, the application is forwarded to the
Administrative Land Use Authority for review and approval.
J.   Application Expiration: An application is expired if the applicant does
not respond to a request for corrections by submitting a complete resubmittal
within twelve (12) months.
K.   Resubmittal: If corrections were required, the applicant shall provide a
resubmittal. The resubmittal shall include a written explanation in response to
each of the municipality’s review comments, identifying and explaining the
applicant’s revisions or reasons for declining to make the revisions.
L.   Check for Completeness: The City shall check the resubmittal to ensure
that the applicant has responded to each item logged in the index of requested
modifications or additions. If the response does not address each item, the
City shall return the submittal to the applicant.
M.   Time Frame to Review: If the resubmittal is complete, the City shall
review the application and provide written comments within the applicable
review window, as outlined in subsection (F).
1.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single family,
two family, and townhome developments. It does not apply to other land uses,
such as commercial, industrial, or other multifamily development.
N.   Determination of Corrections Required: At the end of the City’s review,
the City shall make a determination of corrections required, if any, and take
action as outlined in subsection (I).
O.   Dispute of Determination: If, on the fourth and final review, the City
fails to respond within forty (40) business days, the City shall, upon request
of the property owner, and within ten (10) business days after the day on which
the request is received:
1.   Advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and
the right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal authority.
i.   The appeal authority shall be the City Council.
9-8B-14: FINAL PLAT CONTENTS
A.   The developer shall submit a complete application and include all items
required in this Title, including Article E “Subdivision Submittal
Requirements.”
B.   The mylar shall meet the requirements of the Box Elder County Surveyor and
Recorder, in addition to Corinne City Code.
C.   The developer must submit a mylar of the Final Plat to the City in a
format approved by the City and County Recorder’s Office.
9-8B-15: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL AND RECORDATION
A.   Ready for Final Approval: Once all reviewing City staff have found the
Final Plat to be in conformity, the plat will be submitted to the
Administrative Land Use Authority for approval.
1.   An applicant may submit the reviewed plat to the Box Elder County GIS
Department for review prior to final approval and recordation.
B.   Land Use Authority: For Final Plat approval, the Administrative Land Use
Authority shall be a staff member or other individual or board appointed by the
City. The Administrative Land Use Authority may not be, nor include any members
of, the City Council or Planning Commission and no public hearing shall be
held.
1.   No public hearing may be held for the subdivision Final Plat approval.
C.   Approval: The Land Use Authority shall approve the Final Plat if it finds:
1.   The proposed plat complies with the requirements of City Code, Utah State
Code, and all other applicable policies and regulations,
2.   The plat has been approved by all regulatory bodies, such as a culinary
water authority, or sanitary sewer authority, or County Health Department, as
applicable,
D.   Denial: The Land Use Authority may deny or remand the proposed Final Plat
if:
1.   The Land Use Authority finds the applicant has not provided a complete,
accurate, and satisfactory response to all comments during review and any other
point of non-compliance with applicable regulations.
2.   The applicant is unwilling to make required corrections or provide
required information.   
E.   Appeal: Any appeal shall be consistent with the provisions of Utah Code
10-9a-604.2.
F.   Signing the Plat: If approved, the Mayor, Planning Commission Chair, City
Engineer, and City Recorder shall sign the Final Plat. This may be postponed if
the applicant is constructing improvements at will.
1.   Utility providers shall be provided with the opportunity to sign the
mylar, but are not required to do so.
G.   Subdivider Posts Performance Guarantee: Upon approval by the
Administrative Land Use Authority, the subdivider shall either:
1.   Proceed to post or make arrangements suitable to the City for posting a
bond or other financial assurance guaranteeing construction of the required
improvements. Said performance guarantee shall be in conformance with the
provisions of City Code and Utah State Code.
2.   Install all required improvements. The Planning Commission Chair and Mayor
shall endorse approval on the plat after all conditions of the resolution have
been satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily completed. There shall be
written evidence that the required public facilities have been installed in a
manner satisfactory to the City as shown by a certificate signed by the City
Engineer and City Attorney that the necessary dedication of public lands and
improvements has been accomplished.
H.   All inspection, testing and/or connection fees required by ordinance shall
be paid and permits required shall be obtained prior to the recording of the
Final Plat.
I.   Correcting mistakes at Recordation: The City Engineer may approve minor
modifications to approved Final Plats before the Final Plat is recorded if the
Engineer finds the proposed modifications are in line with the intent of the
approval and do not jeopardize the interest of the City or adjoining property
owners.
1.   The types of minor amendments contemplated in this section include legal
description mistakes, surveyor errors—such as tie in description mistakes,
typos, and items agreed to that should have been included in writing on the
Final Plat. Any substantive change requires reapproval.
J.   Recording: Following approval, the City shall deposit the Final Plat,
bearing all official approvals, in the office of the Box Elder County Recorder
for recording.
1.   Only the City may record Final Plats.
2.   The Final Plat must be recorded within one (1) year of approval. If the
Final Plat is not recorded within one (1) year of plat approval, the approval
expires and the plat must be resubmitted.
3.   Upon the recording of the plat, the owner may thereafter proceed to convey
title to the lots as described by the plat.
K.   Releases Of Performance Guarantees: All partial and final releases of
performance guarantees shall be approved by action of the City in accordance
with the provision of this title, as applicable. The granting of the final
release by the City Council shall constitute the acceptance of the improvements
by the City.
L.   Release Of Durability Retainer: At the conclusion of the durability
guarantee period and subject to compliance with the provisions of this title,
the City Council shall authorize the release of the improvements durability
from any obligation with respect to the improvements.
M.   Phasing Plans: When a phasing plan has been approved by the Planning
Commission during the Preliminary Plan approval, the performance guarantee may
be divided into phases as outlined in the approved phasing plan. The developer
may file irrevocable offers to dedicate streets and public improvements only in
those sections submitted to be recorded and defer dedication for the remaining
phases until such phases, subject to any additional conditions imposed by the
Planning Commission, and offers shall be granted concurrently with final
approval of the balance of the plat. The approval of all remaining phases not
being recorded with the county recorder shall automatically expire unless such
phases have been approved for recording by the Planning Commission, all fees
paid, all instruments and offers of dedication submitted and performance
guarantees approved and actually recorded with the county recorder within one
year of the date of final subdivision approval of the subdivision plat. (Ord.,
1-18-2005)
N.   Vested Rights: Vesting for purposes of zoning occurs upon the filing of a
complete application. Any vesting shall terminate with the expiration of any
application or approval, as outlined in this Title.
 
ARTICLE C.
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-8C-1: Improvements And Performance Guarantee
9-8C-2: Inspection Of Improvements
9-8C-3: Escrow Deposits Or Letters Of Credit For Lot Improvements
9-8C-4: Maintenance Of Improvements
9-8C-5: Waiver Or Deferral Of Required Improvements
9-8C-6: Issuance Of Building Permit And Certificate Of Occupancy
9-8C-7: Consumer Protection Legislation And Conflicts Of Interest Statutes
 
9-8C-1: IMPROVEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
  A.  Completion Of Improvements: Applicants shall be required to complete all
the street, sanitary sewer, water and other improvements (i.e., storm drainage,
trails, sidewalk, curb, gutter, street signs, etc.), including lot improvements
on the individual lots of the subdivision and to dedicate all applicable public
improvements to the local government involved in the project, including any
water right transfers to the City, conservation easements or dedications of
public lands to land trusts, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on
the property and public improvements thus dedicated.
  B.  Performance Guarantees:
 1.  As an alternative, the applicant may post an acceptable guarantee (in
accordance with the supplementary regulations of this title) at the time of
application for final plat approval in an amount estimated by the City
Engineer, as sufficient to secure to the City the satisfactory construction,
installation and dedication of the uncompleted portion of required
improvements. The posting of guarantees are in lieu of actual construction and
are therefore established for the benefit of and inure to the public at large
and, as such, are not to be used for satisfying contractor or mechanics liens
or other unrelated obligations. The performance guarantee shall also secure all
lot improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision as may be required.
Such performance guarantee shall comply with all statutory requirements and
shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner
of execution as set forth in the subdivision and master planned development
code.
 2.  The period within which required improvements must be completed shall be
specified in the resolution approving the final subdivision plat and shall be
incorporated in the guarantee and shall not in any event exceed two (2) years
from date of final approval. Such guarantee shall be approved by the City with
surety and conditions satisfactory to them.
 3.  In the event the applicant's ability to post an acceptable guarantee is
dependent upon prior recordation of the plat due to requirements of the
interstate land sales act or other federal law or regulations, the City may
authorize plat approval and recordation upon receipt from the applicant of an
executed and acknowledged agreement signed by all owners of fee, leasehold,
contract and security interests in the subject property, in the form of a
restrictive covenant that the applicant will not sell, lease or otherwise
convey any lot, parcel or portion of a lot of the subject property unless he
shall first, as a condition precedent thereto, satisfy the foregoing
requirements of this article as applicable. The agreement shall be in
recordable form, shall specifically provide that the encumbrance created shall
be deemed to be a covenant running with the land, binding on applicant's
successors and assigns, to install or guarantee installation of all required
improvements, and to pay all costs, including attorney fees, which the City may
incur in enforcing the terms and provisions of the agreement, and shall contain
the express irrevocable consent of all signers to vacation of the recorded plat
if the guarantee requirements have not been complied with within a specified
time determined by the City Council of the date of recordation of the plat. The
encumbrance posed by the agreement shall only be released upon compliance by
the applicant or his successors with the provisions of this title and the
agreement.
  C.  Temporary Improvement: The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of
temporary improvements required by the City and shall maintain the same for the
period specified. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or
improvement, the developer shall file with the City a separate suitable
guarantee, in accordance with this title, for temporary facilities, which
guarantee shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be properly
constructed, maintained and removed.
  D.  Costs Of Improvements: All required improvements shall be made by the
applicant, at their expense, without reimbursement by the City or any
improvement district therein, and in accordance with related codes, fee
schedules and ordinances.
  E.  Other Governmental Units: Other governmental units which develop within
the City and to which these guarantees and contract provisions apply, may file
in lieu of said contract or guarantees a certified resolution or ordinance from
officers or agencies authorized to act in their behalf, agreeing to comply with
the provisions of this title.
  F.  Failure To Complete Improvements: Where a performance guarantee has been
posted and required improvements have not been installed within the terms of
such performance guarantee, the local government may thereupon declare the
guarantee to be in default and require that all the improvements be installed
regardless of the extent of the building development at the time the guarantee
is declared to be in default.
  G.  Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance
of the City Council. Approval of the subdivision plat shall not be deemed to
constitute or imply acceptance by the City Council of any street, easement or
park shown on said plat.
 
9-8C-2: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
  A.  General Procedure And Fees: The applicant shall, in accordance with the
City fee resolution, pay to the City an inspection fee, and the subdivision
plat shall not be signed by the City unless such fee has been paid. These fees
shall be due and payable upon demand of the City, and no building permits or
certificates of occupancy shall be issued until all fees are paid. If the City
Engineer finds upon inspection that any of the required improvements have not
been constructed in accordance with the City construction standards and
specifications, the applicant shall be responsible for completing the
improvements. Wherever the cost of improvements is covered by a performance
guarantee, the applicant and the issuing company shall be severally and jointly
liable for completing the improvements according to specifications. Prior to
commencement of construction on any public improvement or private improvement
required to be built to public standards, the developer shall first obtain a
notice to proceed from the Planning Commission.
  B.  Release Or Reduction Of Performance Guarantee:
 1.  Certificate Of Satisfactory Completion: Subject to maintenance provisions
contained in section 9-8C-4 of this article, the City will not accept
dedication of required improvements, or release or reduce a performance
guarantee, until the City Engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all
required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the
applicant's engineer or surveyor has certified to the City Engineer, through
submission of detailed "as built" survey plat of the subdivision, indicating
location, dimensions, materials, improvements and other information required,
that the layout of the line and grade of all public improvements is in
accordance with the approved construction plans for the subdivision and that a
title insurance policy has been furnished to the City Attorney and City
Engineer indicating that the improvements have been completed, are ready for
dedication to the local government, and are free and clear of any and all liens
and encumbrances. Upon such approval and recommendation, the City Council shall
thereafter accept the improvements for dedication in accordance with the
established policy and procedure.
 2.  Reduction Of Performance Guarantee: A performance guarantee may be reduced
upon actual completion and/or acceptance of public improvements and then only
to the ratio that the public improvement accepted bears to the total public
improvements for the plat. In no event shall a performance guarantee be reduced
below the twenty five percent (25%) retainage of the principal amount until
total completion. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8C-3: ESCROW DEPOSITS OR LETTERS OF CREDIT FOR LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
  A.  Acceptance Of Escrow Funds: Whenever, by reason of the season of the
year, any lot improvements required by the subdivision regulations cannot be
performed, the building official may, nevertheless, issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy, provided there is no danger to health, safety or
general welfare, upon accepting a cash escrow deposit or letter of credit in an
amount to be determined by the City Engineer for the cost of said improvements.
The performance guarantee covering such lot improvements shall remain in full
force and effect.
  B.  Procedures On Escrow Fund: All required improvements for which escrow
monies or letters of credit have been accepted by the building official at the
time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy, shall be installed by the
developer within a period of nine (9) months from the date of deposit and
issuance of the temporary certificate of occupancy. In the event that the
improvements have not been properly installed at the end of the time period,
the building official shall give two (2) weeks' written notice to the developer
requiring him to install the same, and in the event that same are not installed
properly in the discretion of the building official, the building official may
request the City Council to authorize the City to proceed to contract out the
work for the installation of the necessary improvements in a sum not to exceed
the amount of the escrow deposit or letter of credit. At the time of the
issuance of the certificate of occupancy for which escrow monies/letters of
credit are being deposited with the building official, the applicant shall
obtain and file with the building official prior to obtaining the certificate
of occupancy a notarized statement from the purchaser or purchasers of the
premises authorizing the building official to install the improvements at the
end of the nine (9) month period in the event that the same have not been duly
installed by the developer. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8C-4: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
  A.  Prior To Completion: The applicant shall be required to maintain all
improvements on the individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on
streets and sidewalks until acceptance of said improvements by the City
Council. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated
to the City, the City may on twelve (12) hours' notice plow the street or
effect emergency repairs and charge the same to applicant. The City will not
normally accept water improvements or street improvements or assume
responsibility for either general maintenance or snow removal until over fifty
percent (50%) of the lots within the subdivision are built upon.
  B.  Warranty After Acceptance And Dedication: The applicant shall be required
to file a maintenance guarantee with the City, prior to acceptance, in an
amount considered adequate by the City Engineer and in a form satisfactory to
the City Attorney, in order to assure the satisfactory condition of the
required improvements, including all lot improvements on the individual
subdivided lots, for a period of one year after the date of their acceptance by
the City and dedication of same to the City. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8C-5: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
  A.  Dedication Before Certificate Of Occupancy: Where a performance guarantee
has been required for a subdivision, no certificate of occupancy for any
building in the subdivision shall be issued prior to the completion of the
improvements and dedication of same to the City.
  B.  Street Improvements Guarantee: The extent of street improvements shall be
adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupant and by police and
fire equipment, prior to the issuance of any occupancy permit. The developer
shall, at the time of the dedication, submit monies in escrow or an acceptable
letter of credit in a sum determined by the City Engineer for the necessary
final improvement of the street.
  C.  Final Building Permits: No building permits shall be issued for the final
ten percent (10%) of lots in a subdivision, or if ten percent (10%) is less
than two (2), for the final two (2) lots of a subdivision, until all public
improvements required for the plat have been fully completed and dedicated.
 
9-8C-7: CONSUMER PROTECTION LEGISLATION AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST STATUTES:
  A.  Violations Prior To Permit Issuance: No building permit or certificate of
occupancy shall be granted or issued if a developer or his authorized agent
shall have violated any federal, state or local law pertaining to consumer
protection of real estate land sales, promotion or practices, or any applicable
conflicts of interest legislation with respect to the lot or parcel of land
which is the subject of the permit or certificate, until so ordered by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
  B.  Revocation Of Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy: With respect to said
lot or parcel of land, in the event a building permit or certificate of
occupancy has been granted or issued, it shall be subject to revocation by the
City until so ordered otherwise by a court of competent jurisdiction; provided,
that in no event shall the rights of intervening innocent third parties in
possession of a certificate of occupancy be prejudiced by any such revocation.
  C.  Penalties For Violation: Any violation of a federal, state or local
consumer protection law (including, but not limited to, the postal
reorganization act of 1970; the federal trade commission act of 1970; the
interstate land sales full disclosure act; the truth in lending act; the
uniform commercial credit code; state "blue sky" laws; state subdivision
disclosure acts or conflicts of interest statutes, laws or ordinances), shall
be deemed a violation of these regulations and subject to all of the penalties
and proceedings as set forth in this title.
 
ARTICLE D. REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS AND DESIGN
SECTION:
9-8D-1: General Improvements
9-8D-2: Lot Improvements
9-8D-3: Roads
9-8D-4: Drainage And Storm Sewers
9-8D-5: Water Facilities
9-8D-6: Sewerage Facilities
9-8D-7: Sidewalks, Curbs, Hiking Trails, Bike Paths, Horse Trails
9-8D-8: Other Utilities
9-8D-9: Parks, Playgrounds, Recreation Areas And Other Public Uses
9-8D-10: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
 
9-8D-1: GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS:
  A.  Conformance To Applicable Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
requirements established herein, all subdivision plats shall comply with the
following laws, rules, adopted policy statements and regulations, as currently
adopted:
 1.  All applicable statutory provisions.
 2.  The subdivision and master planned development code, sensitive lands
overlay zone regulations, international building and related codes, design
standards and specifications, and all other applicable laws of the appropriate
jurisdictions.
 3.  The official streets master plan, the general plan, official zone map,
trails master plan, public utilities plans, land use maps and capital
improvements plan or any other local government having jurisdiction in the
development, including all streets, trails, drainage systems and parks shown on
the official map or general plan as adopted or amended for the subdivision.
 4.  The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the county
health department, fire department, Box Elder school district and/or
appropriate state or federal agencies that may have jurisdiction in the
project. Compliance with these agencies' regulations must be certified by
letter to the City or signature on the applicable plats as provided for under
this title.
 5.  The rules of the state department of transportation if the subdivision or
any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or connection street.
 6.  The City design standards, construction specifications and standard
drawings as may be in force and in effect, and any other standards and
regulations adopted by the City Engineer and all boards, commissions, agencies
and officials.
 7.  Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity with
the above guides or policy and purposes of these regulations as established in
these regulations.
  B.  Self-Imposed Restrictions: If the owner places restrictions on any of the
land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by this title or
these regulations, such restrictions or reference thereto may be required to be
indicated on the subdivision plat or on restrictive covenants recorded with the
county recorder in a form acceptable to the City Attorney.
  C.  Plats to Include Incorporated Land Only:
 1.  Lot lines and/or roads shall not be laid out so as to cross municipal
boundary lines. All annexations shall comply with the current annexation policy
plan.
 D.  Monuments: The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in the
subdivision as required herein or as otherwise approved by the City Engineer:
 1.  Monuments shall be constructed in accordance with the design standards,
construction specifications and standard drawings and located on street right
of way lines, at street intersections, angle points of curves and block
corners. They shall be spaced so as to be within sight of each other, the sight
lines being contained wholly within the street limits.
 2.  All monuments shall be properly set in the ground and approved by a
registered land surveyor prior to approval of the final plat, unless a
performance guarantee is established in accordance with the provisions of this
title.
  E.  Character Of Land And Unsuitability:
 1.  Land unsuitable for subdivision or development due to natural hazards,
flooding, improper drainage, fire, steep slopes, rock formations, geologic
hazards, potentially toxic wastes, adverse earth formations or topography,
wetlands, utility easements, wildlife habitats that cannot be reasonably
mitigated, or other natural features, including ridgelines and hilltops, which
will reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the
present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas,
shall not be subdivided or developed.
 2.  The development and land use may be made suitable if adequate methods are
formulated by the developer and approved by the City, upon recommendation of a
qualified planner or engineer hired by the developer and approval of the City
Engineer, to solve or remedy the problems created by the unsuitable land
conditions. The burden of proof shall lie with the developer to establish the
viability of development in these sensitive or unsuitable areas. Unsuitable
land shall be set aside or reserved for uses as shall not involve such a danger
or severe environmental impact.
  F.  Subdivision Name: The proposed name of the subdivision and all roadways
contained therein shall not duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically,
the name of any other subdivision or street in the area covered by these
regulations or in Box Elder County. If there is disagreement with street names
accepted by the City Engineer, the City Council shall have final authority to
designate the name of the subdivision and to select street names.
  G.  Ridgeline And Hillside Development: Protection of ridges from development
which would be visible on the skyline or from prominent areas or designated
vantage points will be maintained. Hillside development which disturbs the
rural agricultural character will be prohibited unless it can be shown that the
development and improvements will be constructed or clustered in a way to
minimize visual impacts.
  H.  Open Space: Units must be clustered in the most developable and least
visually sensitive portions of the site with common open space corridors
separating clusters. This applies to both multi-family and single-family, as
well as commercial projects. The open space corridors should be designed to
coincide with significant vegetation and in many cases, should be left in the
natural state. Open space areas will be the maintenance responsibility of the
homeowners unless dedicated to the City. Open space conservation easements
dedicated in perpetuity to a qualified land trust are encouraged to prevent
future development in valuable open space.
  I.  Roads, Utility Lines And Concurrency: Roads and all utility lines should
be designed to work with the existing grade, and cut and fill slopes should be
minimized. Roads and utilities should be placed so that disturbance of
significant vegetation is minimized. All roads and utilities, whether on or off
site, must be installed concurrently with the development.
  J.  Drainageways And Irrigation Ditches: Existing natural drainage and
irrigation ditches or rights of way should be maintained and designed around.
Notification and/or approval of irrigation companies for development may be
required in certain circumstances as determined by the City if the development
impacts irrigation works and/or access.
  K.  Soil Conditions: Consideration must be given to soil conditions and
ground water existence, and may include appropriate setbacks and conservation
requirements.
  L.  Trails And Sidewalks:
 1.  Trails and sidewalks should be provided to allow efficient internal
circulation as well as links to adjacent trail systems on other properties.
Existing trails should be maintained and incorporated into open space elements
of the project. This may include trails for pedestrian, bicycle or equestrian
circulation. Construction of new trails will be required concurrently with the
installation of other public improvements.
 2.  Although required trails may not link to adjacent trails immediately, each
trail is a vital part of an overall circulation plan. In most cases, the
homeowners will be required to maintain the trails.
  M.  Limits Of Disturbance/Vegetation Protection: A separate plan which
addresses limits of disturbance and vegetation protection during construction
and revegetation of disturbed areas will be required. This shall include
construction necessary for all project improvements, such as roads and
utilities. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-2: LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
  A.  Lot Arrangement:
 1.  The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the international
building code, this title, and in providing reasonable driveway access to
buildings on such lots from an approved street.
 2.  In areas that are determined to be in high fire danger areas, the building
sites shall be located or situated in areas of the development that are less
hazardous or are naturally clear of the hazardous vegetation.
  B.  Building Sites: Building sites or envelopes shall be designed which
minimize disturbance of existing vegetation.
  C.  Landscaping: The amount of common and private area available for formal
landscaping may be restricted. Agricultural uses of open space will be
encouraged using irrigation water for watering, not culinary water. Outside
irrigation creates a significant water demand if using City culinary water and
these types of irrigated areas may be limited in the design of the subdivision.
  D.  Limits Of Disturbance/Vegetation Protection: Limits of disturbance or
building pad lines shall be shown on the preliminary and final plats if the
staff determines that there is significant vegetation on the site or if it is
important to clearly designate future building locations. "Significant
vegetation" includes large trees of six inch (6") caliper or greater, groves of
five (5) or more smaller trees, or clumps of trees, bushes or shrubs covering
an area of fifty (50) square feet to the drip lines. A plan for vegetation
protection during construction and revegetation after construction will also be
required. A security will be required to be posted to ensure compliance with
the limits of disturbance plan. Guidelines are as follows:
 1.  All construction activity must be contained within the limits of
disturbance line, with the balance of the parcel remaining undisturbed. Access
to the limits of disturbance area should be along the planned driveway.
 2.  Building pad lines may be specified on some plats instead of limits of
disturbance. If building pad lines are designated, no part of the new
construction may lie outside of the building pad line; however, construction
disturbance may extend as far as ten feet (10') beyond the building pad line.
Access to the building pad should be along the planned driveway.
 3.  The Planning Commission has the authority to vary the platted limits of
disturbance or building pad line if such a variation results in less visual
impact or more effective preservation of mature trees. In no case, however,
should a variation in the limits of disturbance boundary result in an increase
in the amount of buildable area.
 4.  Limits of disturbance or building pad lines with definitions approved by
the staff must be reflected on the final plat. Because limits of disturbance or
building pad lines are sometimes varied by the Planning Commission, the plat
may not reflect the final location of the limits.
 5.  Limits of disturbance must be designated in the field prior to
commencement of excavation with fencing or other methods approved by the
Planning Commission.
  E.  Square Footage: Maximum dwelling or unit square footage will be required.
Smaller parcels will be expected to limit building sizes significantly so that
homes relate to the parcels upon which they are built. Limited building heights
may also be required. Both the limitations of building square footages and
building height will be required to be shown on recorded plats for the project.
 F.  Fire Sprinkling: Fire sprinkler systems may be required of all projects,
whether single-family or multi-family, as determined by the fire official. This
determination is based upon an analysis of the size of structures, vegetation
surrounding the structures and location of the project as it relates to fire
department response time.
 G.  Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
outline in City Code. Where lots are more than double the minimum required area
for the zoning district, the City may require that such lots be arranged as to
allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets where they would be
necessary to serve such potential lots, all in compliance with this title and
these regulations. In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
street lines (or radial to curving street lines) unless a variation from this
rule will give a better street or lot plan. Dimensions of corner lots shall be
large enough to allow for erection of buildings, observing the minimum front
yard setback from both streets. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid
out for business, commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to
provide for the off street parking and loading facilities required for the type
of use and development contemplated, as established in this title.
  J.  Double Frontage Lots And Access To Lots:
 1.  Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be
avoided, except where necessary to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation.
 2.  Access From Major And Secondary Arterials: Lots shall not, in general,
derive access exclusively from an arterial or collector street. Where driveway
access from an arterial or collector street may be necessary for several
adjoining lots, the Planning Commission may require that such lots be served by
a combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazards on such
street. Where possible, driveways shall be designed and arranged so as to avoid
requiring vehicles to back into traffic on arterials or collectors.
  K.  Soil Preservation, Grading And Seeding:
 1.  Topsoil Preservation And Final Grading: No final plat approval or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued until final grading has been completed
in accordance with the approved final subdivision plat and the lots recovered
with topsoil with an average depth of at least six inches (6"), which shall
contain no particles over two inches (2") in diameter, over the entire area of
the lot, except that portion covered by buildings or included in streets, or
where the grade has not been changed or natural vegetation damaged. Topsoil
shall not be removed from residential lots or used as spoil, but shall be
redistributed so as to provide at least six inches (6") of cover on the lots
and at least four inches (4") of cover between the sidewalks and curbs, and
shall be stabilized by seeding or planting. Slope stabilization and erosion
control, as determined necessary by the City Engineer, will also be required to
be installed according to the approved specification.
 2.  Lot Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings in accordance with the international building code, and
individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general storm drainage
pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration
of storm drainage water from any lot to adjacent lots.
 3.  Lawn-Grass Seed And Sod: All common open spaces shall be topsoiled and
revegetated in accordance with this title to avoid erosion and improve the
visual quality of the development. If revegetation is required in a
development, at a minimum, lawn-grass seed shall be sown at not less than four
(4) pounds to each one thousand (1,000) square feet of land area. In the
spring, the seed shall be sown between March 15 and May 15; and in the fall the
seed shall be sown between August 15 and September 30. All common open spaces
shall be seeded from the road shoulder edge of the unpaved right of way back to
the lot line. No final plat approval shall be issued until respreading of soil
and seeding of lawn has been completed; except that between October 1 and March
15, May 15 and August 15, the applicant shall submit an agreement in writing
signed by the developer, with a copy to the Planning Commission, that
respreading of soil and seeding of lawn will be done during the immediate
following planting season as set forth in this subsection and leave a cash
escrow or letter of credit for performance in such amount as shall be
determined by the Planning Commission in accordance with this title. Sod may be
used to comply with any requirement of seeding set forth herein.
  L.  Debris And Waste: Unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer and
Planning Commission, no cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil,
junk, trash, rubbish or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in
any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of issuance of
a certificate of occupancy, and removal of the same shall be required prior to
issuance of any certificate of occupancy on a subdivision, nor shall any be
left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration of
the performance bond or dedication of public improvements, whichever is sooner.
  M.  Fencing: Each subdivider and/or developer shall be required to furnish
and install fences wherever the Planning Commission determines that a hazardous
condition may exist. The fences shall be constructed according to standards to
be established by the Town Engineer and shall be noted as to height and
material on the final plat. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until
said fence improvements have been duly installed.
  N.  Water Bodies And Watercourses: No more than twenty five percent (25%) of
the minimum area of a lot required under the subdivision and master planned
development code may be satisfied by land which is under water. Where a
watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the street by which it
has access, provisions shall be made for installations of a culvert or other
structure, of design approved by the City Engineer.
  O.  Performance Guarantee To Include Lot Improvements: The performance
guarantee shall include an amount to guarantee completion of all requirements
contained in this chapter, the supplemental regulations chapter of this title
and in these regulations, including, but not limited to, soil preservation,
final grading, lot drainage, landscaping, lawn-grass seeding, curb, gutter and
sidewalk, removal of debris and waste, fencing, and all other lot improvements
required by the Planning Commission. Whether or not a certificate of occupancy
has been issued at the expiration of the performance guarantee, the City may
enforce the provisions of the guarantee where the provisions of this section or
any other applicable law, ordinance or regulation have not been complied with.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-3: ROADS:
  A.  Frontage On Improved Roads: No subdivision shall be approved unless the
area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and/or access from an existing
public street, unless such street is:
 1.  An existing state or county highway; or
 2.  A street shown upon a plat recorded in the county recorder's office. Such
street or highway must be suitably improved as required by the highway rules,
regulations, specifications or orders, or be secured by a performance guarantee
required under these subdivision regulations, with the width and right of way
required by these subdivision regulations or the streets master plan. Wherever
the area to be subdivided is to utilize existing road frontage, such road shall
be suitably improved as provided hereinabove.
  B.  Grading And Improvement Plan: Roads shall be graded and improved and
conform to the City design standards, construction specifications and standard
drawings as adopted, and shall be approved as to design and specifications by
the City Engineer, in accordance with the construction plans required to be
submitted prior to final plat approval. Prior to final plat approval, the City
shall make the determination as to whether each street is to be public or
private. Such status shall be shown on the plat.
  C.  Topography And Arrangement:
 1.  Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local roads may be
curved to avoid conformity of lot appearance and to discourage through traffic.
All streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the
building sites at, or above, the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall
conform as closely as possible to the original topography with all cut and fill
sections adequately stabilized and revegetated. A combination of steep grades
and curves, as well as large cut and fill sections, shall be avoided.
 2.  All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed
system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights of way as established in the
streets master plan or land use maps or zoning maps.
 3.  All thoroughfares shall be properly related to specific traffic generators
such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and shopping centers,
to population densities and to the pattern of existing, proposed and future
land uses.
 4.  Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to
the natural topography, to permit efficient drainage and utility systems, and
to require the minimum number of streets necessary to provide convenient and
safe access to property.
 5.  Cul-de-sacs are strongly discouraged.
 6.  Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract to
be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions, or
unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, such an extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts.
 7.  In business and industrial developments, the streets and other accessways
shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of
transportation facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
 8.  Subdivisions shall be designed to provide adequate emergency access to and
from the development. The Planning Commission may require more than one point
of ingress and egress to better facilitate emergency access and escape. The
fire department must approve the street design on large subdivisions.
  D.  Blocks:
 1.  Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots of
appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets or waterways.
 2.  The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be such as are appropriate
for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but block lengths in
residential areas should not exceed one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') or
twelve (12) times the minimum lot width required in the zoning district,
whichever is greater, nor be less than four hundred feet (400') in length.
Wherever practicable, blocks along major arterials and collector streets shall
be not less than one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
 3.  In long blocks, the Planning Commission may require the reservation of an
easement through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities or
pedestrian traffic.
 4.  Pedestrianways or crosswalks, not less than ten feet (10') wide, may be
required by the Planning Commission through the center of blocks more than
eight hundred feet (800') long, where deemed essential to provide circulation
or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, trails or
other community facilities. Blocks designed for industrial or commercial uses
shall be of such length and width as may be determined suitable by the Planning
Commission for prospective use.
  E.  Access To Highway, Arterial Or Collector Streets: Where a subdivision
borders on or contains an existing or proposed highway, arterial or collector,
the Planning Commission may require the subdivision of lots so as to back onto
the highway, arterial or collector and front onto a parallel local street; no
direct access shall be provided from the primary arterial or collector, and
screening shall be provided in a strip of land along the rear property line of
such lots.
 F.  Road Names: All roads shall be named at the time of Preliminary Plat
approval. If a road cannot be named based on its location on the streets grid,
the local postmaster shall be consulted prior to Planning Commission approval.
Such names shall be sufficiently different in sound and in spelling from other
road names in Box Elder County or the City, so as not to cause confusion. A
road which is or is planned as a continuation of an existing road shall bear
the same name.
  G.  Road Regulatory Signs: The applicant shall erect or post acceptable
guarantees ensuring each road sign required by the City Engineer at all road
intersections. All road signs shall be installed before issuance of
certificates of occupancy for any residence on the streets approved. Street
name signs are to be placed at all intersections within and abutting the
subdivision, the type, design and location of which to be approved by the City
Engineer. Street signs shall be designed according to City specifications and
standards.
  H.  Streetlights: Installation of streetlights shall be required in
accordance with City design and specification standards and shall be approved
by the City Engineer.
  J.  Construction Of Roads And Dead End Roads:
 1.  Construction Of Roads: The arrangement of streets shall provide for the
continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
protection, for efficient provision of utilities, and where such continuation
is in accordance with the streets master plan. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must be a dead end street temporarily, the right of
way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary turnabout shall be
provided on all temporary dead end streets, with the notation on the
subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right of way shall revert
to abutters whenever the street is continued. The Planning Commission may limit
the length of temporary dead end streets in accordance with the design
standards of these regulations.
 2.  Dead End Roads (Permanent): Where a road does not extend to the boundary
of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by the Planning
Commission for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not be
nearer to such boundary than fifty feet (50'). However, the Planning Commission
may require the reservation of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage
facilities, pedestrian traffic, snow removal/storage or utilities. A cul-de-sac
turnaround shall be provided at the end of a permanent dead end street in
accordance with construction standards and specifications. For greater
convenience to traffic and more effective police and fire protection, permanent
dead end streets shall, in general, be limited in length to three hundred fifty
feet (350').
  K.  General Design Standards: In order to provide for roads of suitable
location, width and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford
satisfactory access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation and road
maintenance equipment, and to coordinate roads so as to compose a convenient
system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the design standards
for roads are hereby required to be in compliance with City design standards,
construction specifications and standard drawings, and the streets master plan,
as adopted or as may otherwise be determined by the City Engineer and Planning
Commission, and City Council.
  L.  Road Surfacing And Improvement: After sewer and water and other
applicable utilities have been installed by the developer, the applicant shall
construct curbs and gutters (if required) and shall surface or cause to be
surfaced roadways to the widths prescribed in the pertinent regulations. Said
surfacing shall be of such character as is suitable for the expected traffic.
Types of pavement shall be determined by the City Engineer. Adequate provision
shall be made for culverts, drains and bridges. All road pavement, shoulders,
drainage improvements and structures, curbs, turnarounds and sidewalks shall
conform to all construction standards and specifications adopted by the City
and shall be incorporated into the construction plans required to be submitted
by the developer for plat approval.
  M.  Excess Right Of Way: Right of way widths in excess of the standards
referenced in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
shall not be in excess of three to one (3:1), unless specifically approved by
the City Engineer.
  N.  Intersections:
 1.  Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an angle within
ten degrees (10°) of perpendicular is required. An oblique street should be
curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles
for at least one hundred feet (100') therefrom. Not more than two (2) streets
shall intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the Planning
Commission.
 2.  Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street shall,
wherever practical, coincide with any intersections on the opposite side of
such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') shall not be permitted. Where streets intersect major streets,
their alignment shall be continuous. Intersections of major streets shall be at
least eight hundred feet (800') apart.
 3.  Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two (2) local streets shall be
at least twenty feet (20'); and minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving a collector street shall be at least twenty five feet (25'). Alley
intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block shall have the
corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe
vehicular movement.
 4.  Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical. In
hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area
shall be provided having not greater than a two percent (2%) slope for a
distance of sixty feet (60'), measured from the nearest right of way line of
the intersecting street.
 5.  Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that could create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right of way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
 6.  The cross slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be three
percent (3%) or less.
  O.  Bridges: Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by
the Planning Commission, shall be constructed at the full expense of the
applicant without reimbursement from the City. The sharing of expense for the
construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant as determined
by the Planning Commission, will be fixed by special agreement between the City
Council and the applicant.
  P.  Road Dedications And Reservations:
 1.  New Perimeter Streets: Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid
out to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. The Planning Commission
may authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and
dedicates the entire required street right of way width.
 2.  Widening And Realignment Of Existing Roads: Where a subdivision borders an
existing narrow road or when the streets master plan, land use maps or zoning
maps indicate plans for realignment or widening a road that would require use
of some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant may be required to
improve and dedicate at his/her expense such areas for widening or realignment
of such roads that are necessary and for the benefit of the subdivision. Such
frontage roads and streets shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at
his own expense to the full width as required by these subdivision regulations.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-4: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
  A.  General Requirements: The Administrative Land Use Authority shall not
approve any plat that does not adequately address storm or flood water runoff
channels or catch basins. Plans shall be reviewed for compliance with City
design standards, construction specifications and standard drawings, or other
standards as may be adopted. The storm water drainage system shall be separate
and independent of the sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where required,
shall be designed by the rational method, or other methods as approved by the
City Engineer, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with
plans. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or
around any intersection, nor for a distance of more than six hundred feet
(600') in the gutter. When calculations indicate that curb capacities are
exceeded at a point, catch basins shall be used to intercept flow at that
point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and every lot
and block.
  B.  Location: The City Engineer may require the applicant to carry away by
pipe or open channel any spring or surface water that may exist either
previously to, or as a result of, the subdivision. Such drainage facilities
shall be located in the road right of way where feasible, or in perpetual
unobstructed easements of appropriate widths, and shall be constructed in
accordance with the construction standards and specifications.
  C.  Accessibility To Public Storm Sewers:
 1.  Underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed throughout the
subdivision and be conducted to an approved outfall. Inspection of facilities
shall be conducted by the City Engineer.
 2.  If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually, as
determined by the City Engineer and the Planning Commission, the developer
shall make arrangements for future storm water disposal by a public utility
system at the time the plat receives final approval. Provision for such
connection shall be incorporated by inclusion in the performance guarantee
required for the subdivision plat.
  D.  Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage Areas: A culvert or other drainage
facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential runoff
from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The developer shall hire a qualified engineer to determine the
necessary size of the facility, based on the provisions of the construction
standards and specifications, assuming conditions of maximum potential
watershed development permitted by this title and the general or master plan.
The City Engineer shall review and approve the design.
  E.  Effect On Downstream Drainage Areas: The City Engineer shall also require
the developer's qualified engineer to study the effect of each subdivision on
existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision.
City storm drainage studies, together with such other studies as shall be
appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it is
anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the development of the
subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the
Administrative Land Use Authority may withhold approval of the subdivision
until provision has been made for the improvement of said potential condition
in such sum as the City Engineer shall determine. No subdivision shall be
approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to an approved drainage,
watercourse or facility.
  F.  Areas Of Poor Drainage: Whenever a plat is submitted for an area which is
subject to flooding, the Administrative Land Use Authority may approve such
subdivision; provided, that the applicant fills the affected area of said
subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place the elevation of streets and
lots at a minimum of twelve inches (12") above the elevation of the maximum
probable flood, as determined by the City Engineer. The plat of such
subdivision shall provide for an overflow zone along the bank of any stream or
watercourse, in a width which shall be sufficient in time of high water to
contain or move the water, and no fill shall be placed in the overflow zone,
nor shall any structure be erected or placed therein. The boundaries of the
overflow zone shall be subject to approval by the City Engineer. Development in
areas of extremely poor drainage will not be allowed.
  G.  Floodplain Areas: The Planning Commission may, upon recommendation of the
City Engineer and when it deems it necessary for the health, safety or welfare
of the present and future population of the area and necessary to the
conservation of water, drainage and sanitary facilities, prohibit the
subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the floodplain of
any stream or drainage course. These floodplain areas should be preserved from
any and all destruction or damage resulting from clearing, grading or dumping
of earth, waste material or stumps, except at the discretion of the Planning
Commission.
  H.  Dedication Of Drainage Easements:
 1.  General Requirements: Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel, river or stream, there shall be provided a storm water
easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially to the lines of such
watercourse, and of such width and construction, or both, as will be adequate
for the purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be
maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for
maximum potential volume of flow.
 2.  Drainage Easements:
  a.  Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical the
inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights of way, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least twenty feet (20') in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines and with
satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
Drainage easements shall be carried from the road to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
  b.  When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private land
outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
  c.  The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a
distance to be determined by the Planning Commission and City Engineer.
  d.  Low lying lands along watercourses, including the Bear River bottoms,
subject to flooding or overflowing during storm periods, whether or not
included in areas for dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their
natural state as drainageways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding
shall not be computed in determining the number of lots to be utilized for
average density procedure, nor for computing the area requirement of any lot.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-5: WATER FACILITIES:
  A.  General Requirement: Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to
extend or create a safe water supply system for the purpose of providing a
water supply capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection. All
improvements, whether on or off site, shall be constructed and paid by the
developer. The impact of the development on the water system must be determined
by the impact analysis process as outlined in this title.
  B.  Existing Systems: Where a public water main is accessible, the subdivider
shall install adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants) subject to
the specifications of the state and City. All water mains shall be at least
eight inches (8") in diameter.
  C.  Approval: Water main extensions and water facilities improvements shall
be approved by the City Engineer.
  D.  Guarantees: To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants,
all water storage and supply improvements, and the boundary lines of proposed
improvement districts, indicating all improvements proposed to be served, shall
be shown on the preliminary plat, and the cost of installing the same, whether
on or off the development, shall be included in the performance guarantee to be
furnished by the developer.
  E.  Ownership Of Facilities: Any private facilities shall be noted on the
plat and are the responsibility of the developer or owner of the development.
  F.  Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions. Fire
hydrants shall be located no more than five hundred feet (500') apart and shall
be approved by the fire department and City Engineer in accordance with the
international fire code or a more stringent code if a conflict exists between
City and the international fire code. In some instances, the City may determine
that due to wildland fire potential, hydrants will be required to be located no
more than three hundred feet (300') apart. To eliminate future street openings,
all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants
themselves and all other water supply improvements, shall be installed before
any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat.
  G.  Proof Of Water: If the applicant is dedicating or providing water rights
to the project or the City, the applicant shall submit adequate proof of
ownership of "wet" water (as opposed to paper only) in a quantity, quality,
annual duration or availability throughout the entire year. The proof must be
provided in a legal form or title policy that is acceptable to the City and/or
the City Attorney.
  H.  Secondary Water:
 1.  As a condition of approval of the subdivision, the applicant shall provide
1.42 acre feet of usable secondary water per acre of land, or the equivalent
share of capital stock in the Bear River Canal Company, per dwelling unit or
residential lot, whichever is the greatest, to the City. This water is intended
to assist the City in meeting the secondary water supply needs brought on by
the development.
 2.  At the discretion of the City Council, if all avenues of acquiring water
rights are exhausted, the City Council may waive the requirement for the
acquisition of water.
 3.  As a condition of approval of the subdivision, the City Council shall
require each developer to install a secondary water system. It is the City's
intent to develop a secondary system. Connection to the water system will be
made when developed. (Ord., 1-2-2007)
 
9-8D-6: SEWERAGE FACILITIES:
  A.  General Requirements: The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in the manner prescribed by City construction standards and
specifications. All plans shall be designed in accordance with current city,
state and EPA rules, regulations and standards. Necessary action shall be taken
by the applicant to extend sanitary sewer service for the purpose of providing
sewerage facilities to the subdivision. Off-site requirements may be necessary
to meet impacts imposed by the development on municipal sewer facilities. An
impact analysis may be necessary. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
  B.  Residential And Nonresidential Subdivisions: Sanitary sewerage facilities
shall connect with the public sanitary sewer at sizes required by the City
Engineer. No individual disposal system or treatment plants (private or group
disposal systems) shall be permitted in the part of the City serviced by the
sewer system. Sanitary sewerage facilities (including the installation of
laterals in the right of way and dedication of easements) shall be subject to
the City specifications, rules, regulations and guidelines and this title. All
major subdivisions are required to extend the system to their development if
their residential density is greater than one residence per five (5) acres or
the lots have less than one hundred ten feet (110') of frontage on a street.
Approved septic systems are allowed for subdivisions that have a density lower
than this, or are minor subdivisions, and meet Box Elder County health
department approval as evidenced in writing. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
  C.  Future Sewer Accessibility Requirements: If a subdivision has more than
three (3) developable lots, including any future phases and, in the City's
opinion, the project is in an area that may be serviced with a sewer system in
the next ten (10) years, the Administrative Land Use Authority may require
sewer improvements to be installed in the subdivision. These improvements shall
be constructed to current city standards, properly capped, marked as to their
termination in the lots (with acceptable as built drawings provided to the
city) and be made separate from the septic system in place or proposed. This
system would make it more feasible and less costly and troublesome on the
residents of the subdivision in the future when the service would be available
and/or the connection would become mandatory. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-7: SIDEWALKS, CURBS, HIKING TRAILS, BIKE PATHS, HORSE TRAILS:
  A.  Location: Sidewalks, if required, shall be included within the dedicated
nonpavement right of way of all roads unless an alternate location has been
specifically approved by the Administrative Land Use Authority, based on a
recommendation by the City Engineer. In many cases, pedestrian paths separate
from the road right of way may be preferable due to snow removal or visual
concerns.
  B.  Curbs: Concrete curbs are required for all roads where sidewalks are
required.
  C.  Improvements: Sidewalks shall be designed to best facilitate their type
of use and serve the public interest and safety.
  D.  Pedestrian Paths: Trails, pedestrian paths and bike paths shall be
related appropriately to require a minimum of site disturbance, permit
efficient drainage, and provide safe access.
  E.  Other Trails: Walking and hiking trails, bike paths and horse trails
shall be provided by the developer in accordance with the trails master plan,
if adopted, and/or where otherwise necessary as determined by the Planning
Commission. Trails should connect traffic generators such as schools,
recreation facilities, commercial areas, parks and other significant natural
features. Such trails shall be built to City specifications, and easements
shall be dedicated for such trails. The trails shall be constructed at the time
of road construction, unless the Planning Commission determines otherwise, in
which case cash deposits shall be required pursuant to this title for
improvements. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-8: OTHER UTILITIES:
  A.  Location: Utility facilities, including, but not limited to, gas,
electric power, telephone and cable TV, shall be located underground in new
subdivisions wherever underground location does not violate safety standards of
the particular utility and where such underground location does not impose any
potential additional maintenance burden on streets and water/sewer personnel.
Underground service connections for water and sewer shall be installed to the
street property line of each platted lot at the expense of the subdivider and
shall be marked on the surface, as shall casings or conduits for all other
underground utilities as determined by the City Engineer.
  B.  Easements:
 1.  Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities
(private and municipal) if the utilities are to be connected from the rear;
such easements shall be at least ten feet (10') wide. Proper coordination shall
be established by the subdivider between the applicable utility companies for
the establishment of utility facilities and easements to adjoining properties.
 2.  Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make impractical
the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual unobstructed
easements at least ten feet (10') in width shall be provided along side lot
lines with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines. All easements
shall be indicated on the plat.
 3.  Where necessary to ensure proper access and maintenance, easement widths
shall be increased as required by the City Engineer. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-9: PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, RECREATION AREAS AND OTHER PUBLIC USES:
  A.  Recreation Standards:
 1.  The Administrative Land Use Authority shall require land be reserved and
improvements installed for parks and playgrounds or other recreation purposes
in locations designated on any master plans, or otherwise where such
reservations would be appropriate and the park would benefit the subdivision
and its residents. Each reservation shall be of suitable size, dimension,
topography and general character, and shall have adequate access for the
particular purposes envisioned by the Planning Commission. The area shall be
shown and marked on the plat "Reserved for Park and/or Recreation Purposes".
The developer will also be required to install improvements to the recreation
areas. These improvements will be built to City specifications.
 2.  When recreation areas are required, the Planning Commission shall
determine the number of acres to be reserved, using the following formula as a
minimum: providing one acre of recreation area for developments up to fifty
(50) single-family dwelling units, and one acre for every fifty (50) units or
fraction thereafter. This calculation equates to eight hundred seventy four
(874) square feet per single-family dwelling unit (same amount available to
City residents as when the ordinance codified herein was approved). The
Planning Commission shall also determine the level of improvements required.
All required improvements shall be built to City specifications. The Planning
Commission may refer such proposed reservations to the City official or
department in charge of operating parks and recreation for recommendation. The
developer shall dedicate all such recreation areas and facilities to the City
as a condition of final subdivision plat approval.
  B.  Minimum Size Of Park And Playground Reservations: In general, land
reserved for recreation purposes shall have an area of at least one acre. When
the percentages from the above formula would create less than one acre, the
Planning Commission may require that the recreation area be located at a
suitable place on the edge of the subdivision so that additional land may be
added at such time as the adjacent land is subdivided. In no case shall an area
of less than one acre be reserved for recreation purposes if it will be
impractical or impossible to secure additional lands in order to increase its
area. This smaller amount will be accepted only when it is on the edge of the
subdivision or when the staff feels that the reduced size will result in a
functional and usable recreation site.
  C.  Recreation Sites: Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a
character and location suitable for use as a playground, play field or for
other recreation purposes, and shall be relatively level and dry, and shall be
improved by the developer to the City standards required by the Planning
Commission, which improvements shall be included in the performance guarantee.
The Planning Commission may refer any subdivision proposed to contain a
dedicated park to the City official in charge of parks and recreation for a
recommendation. All land to be reserved for dedication to the City for park
purposes shall have prior approval of the City Council and shall be shown
marked on the plat "Reserved for Park and/or Recreation Purposes".
  D.  Alternative Procedure For Subdivisions Of Fewer Than Twenty Five Lots:
Subdivisions, including commercial or agricultural subdivisions, with fewer
than twenty five (25) lots would result in a land area of less than one acre to
be reserved for recreation facilities. In this case, the developer may pay an
in lieu of fee in those cases where the in lieu of fee is specifically approved
by or required by the Planning Commission. Fees shall be paid on a per unit
rate and be based upon fair market value as indicated in the City adopted fee
schedule.
  E.  Applicability To Land Utilizing Average Density: Any subdivision plat in
which the principle of average density or flexible zoning has been utilized
shall not be exempt from the provisions of this section, except as to such
portion of land which is actually dedicated to the City for park and recreation
purposes.
  F.  Other Recreation Reservations: The provisions of this section are minimum
standards. None of the subsections above shall be construed as prohibiting a
developer from reserving other land for recreation purposes in addition to the
requirements of this section.
  G.  Other Public Uses:
 1.  Plat To Provide For Public Uses: Except when an applicant utilizes a
master planned development concept in which land is set aside by the developer
as required by the provision of the subdivision and master planned development
code, whenever a tract to be subdivided incudes a school, recreation use or
other public use as indicated on the master plan, or any portion thereof, such
space shall be identified on the plat. After proper determination of its
necessity by the Planning Commission and the appropriate City official or other
public agency involved in the acquisition and use of each such site, and a
determination has been made to acquire the site by the public agency, the site
shall be suitably incorporated by the applicant into the preliminary and final
plats.
 2.  Referral To Public Body: The Planning Commission shall refer the plat to
the public body concerned with acquisition for its consideration and report.
The Planning Commission may propose alternate areas for such acquisition and
shall allow the public body or agency thirty (30) days for reply. The agency's
recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map showing the boundaries and
area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the time required to
complete the acquisition.
 3.  Notice Of Property Owner: Upon receipt of an affirmative report, the
Planning Commission shall notify the property owner and shall designate on both
the preliminary and final plats that area proposed to be acquired by the public
body. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-10: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
Existing features which add natural value or historical amenities to the
community shall be retained. Buildings shall be sited in a manner that
preserves significant views. Ridges should be protected from development which
would be visible on the skyline from prominent areas or vantage points (as
defined in chapter 10 of this title). Existing vegetation should also be
retained as much as possible. Vegetation protection shall be required during
construction so that disturbance is limited. Existing features such as
watercourses, rivers, irrigation works, wetlands, historic sites, critical
meadowlands, important vistas and other irreplaceable assets shall be preserved
in the design of the subdivision. All trees on the plat required to be retained
shall be preserved, and all trees where required shall be welled and protected
against change of grade. The drawings submitted with the preliminary plat shall
show the number, size and location of existing trees as required by these
regulations, and shall further indicate all those marked for retention, and the
location of all proposed trees along the street side of each lot. Any project
falling within the sensitive lands overlay zone may be subject to additional
requirements and regulations as outlined in the sensitive lands regulations
contained in chapter 10 of this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
9-8D-11: NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
  A.  General: If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
agricultural, commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision
with respect to such land shall make such provision as the planning commission
may require. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth in the subdivision and master
planned development code. Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision
plat approval may proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the planning
commission. A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the
requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards as are
required by the planning commission, and shall conform to the proposed land use
and standards established in the general plan, streets master plan, land use
maps, subdivision and master planned development code, and town design
standards, construction specifications and standard drawings.
  B.  Standards: In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission that
the street, parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the
uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed:
 1.  Proposed agricultural or industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to the types of agricultural or industrial development anticipated.
 2.  Street rights of way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate the
type and volume of traffic anticipated to be placed thereupon.
 3.  Special requirements may be imposed by the town with respect to street,
curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
 4.  Special requirements may be imposed by the town with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and storm water
drainage.
 5.  Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip and/or fencing when necessary or required.
 6.  Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck or equipment
traffic, shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing
or potential residential areas or uses. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
ARTICLE E. SUBDIVISION SUBMITTAL CONTENTS
SECTION:
9-8E-1: Preliminary Plat
9-8E-2: Subdivision Improvement Plans
9-8E-3: Final Plats
 
9-8E-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT
An applicant shall submit the following with a preliminary plat application:
A.   Completed Preliminary Subdivision Application
B.   Application fee, which covers a maximum of two reviews. Additional reviews
may require additional fees, based on staff time required
C.   Title report showing clear title for all properties in the proposed
development
D.   Stamped, addressed envelopes: Provide a list, as shown on the latest tax
assessment roll, of all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subdivision
together with a stamped and addressed envelope for each such owner.
E.   Will-serve letters for any utility companies intended to provide services
to the properties. This shall include an inspection fee in an amount to be
determined on the basis of the provisions of these regulations, as established
by resolution, and by written assurance from the public utility companies and
improvement districts, if applicable or extended, that necessary utilities will
be installed and proof that the applicant has submitted petitions in writing
for the creation or extension of any improvement district as required by the
Planning Commission upon preliminary plat approval.
F.   Plan Requirements:
a.   Electronic PDF files formatted for both 24” x 36” and 11” x 17”
b.   All plans must be prepared by a licensed surveyor and/or engineer
c.   All improvements and details shall comply with the City Development
Standards
d.   The following text shall be provided on all sheets except Plat and Detail
sheets:
Note: The Developer and the General Contractor understand that it is his/her
responsibility to ensure that all improvements installed within this
development are constructed in full compliance with all State and City Codes,
Ordinances and Standards. These plans are not all inclusive of all minimum
codes, ordinances and standards. This fact does not relieve the Developer or
General Contractor from full compliance with all minimum State and City Codes,
Ordinances and Standards.
e.   Cover sheet, which includes, but is not limited to, the following:
i.   Title block, including the following:
1.   Proposed name of plat (name will require clearance from the County
Recorder's office)
2.   Name, address and telephone number of Property Owner(s) and Developer(s)
3.   Name, address and telephone number of Engineer/Surveyor
4.   Location of the plat
5.   Original drawing date and each subsequent revision date
ii.   Vicinity Map of development with its distinguishable location within the
City
iii.   Entire subdivision drawn to scale and delineating areas of the
subdivision not associated with the phases(s) being presented for review.
1.   Drawn to scale of not more than 1” = 100’
iv.   Written legal boundary description
v.   Section tie or block monumentation using County approved coordinates
1.   Sufficient data acceptable to the City Engineer to determine readily the
location, bearing and length of all lines, and to reproduce such lines upon the
ground, the location of all proposed monuments.
vi.   Adjacent subdivisions or properties with owner names and addresses
vii.   Signature Blocks for utilities and irrigation company
viii.   Proposed lot layout – showing the following:
1.   Lot dimensions, property lines bearings and frontage lengths in feet and
decimals of a foot
2.   Lot sizes in square feet
3.   Buildable area for each lot in square feet
4.   Street rights-of-way with proposed names
5.   Street centerlines, including curve length and radius, intersections and
center point of bulbs and turnarounds
6.   Public utility easements
7.   North arrow and scale graphic bar
8.   Area of unbuildable slopes
9.   Names and parcel numbers of adjoining streets and lots
10.   Existing addresses of neighboring properties
11.   Locations of easements, water bodies, parks, trails, alleys, cemeteries,
drainage or irrigation ditches, and other infrastructure
ix.   Density table with the following:
1.   Zoning classification
2.   Total number of lots
3.   Total acreage within the proposed development
4.   Total acreage in lots
5.   Total acreage to be dedicated for street right-of-way
6.   Total acreage in green or open spaces(s)
7.   Total acreage of unbuildable areas, if any
8.   Density in units per gross acre
x.   Table of contents which identifies, at a minimum, the final plat sheet and
utility plan sheet and their contents.
xi.   Plat Sheet, which includes, but is not limited to, the following:
xii.   Title block (as described on cover sheet)
xiii.   Owner’s dedication and acknowledgement and other acknowledgements as
required by County for recordation.
G.   Specific Requirements: These items are site-specific or project specific
based on the location and type of project. The City Engineer or applicable
reviewing individual or body shall determine which submittal materials apply:
a.   Phasing plan, including construction of infrastructure, amenities and
landscaping
b.   Building Elevations (PUD, Multi-Family, Mixed Use Developments only)
c.   Materials and Color Board (PUD, Multi-Family, Mixed Use Developments only)
d.   Traffic study, required for subdivisions of fifty (50) or more lots
e.   UDOT, Railroad, Irrigation Company and/or USPS review and approval, if
necessary
f.   Preliminary Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC& R’s), if necessary
g.   Any amenities, architectural details, design elements, and other
requirements from any prior approval requirements (Overlay approvals, phasing
plans, annexation agreements, development agreements, as applicable)
h.   Hazard Mitigation: Wetland Delineation, Flood Elevation Certificate,
Wildland Urban Interface mitigation, as determined to be necessary by the City
Engineer
i.   Soils Report / Geotechnical Report: Complete geotechnical report prepared,
stamped, dated & signed by a licensed geotechnical engineer, including mapping
of geological features (including, but not limited to outcroppings, rock falls,
slide areas, and alluvial fans.)
i.   The soils report shall address hill stabilization, road design including
CBR or existing soils, foundation design, groundwater impacts, and general soil
stability.
ii.   The report must be stamped and signed by a Civil Engineer licensed in the
state of Utah.
iii.   The report shall include a minimum groundwater height factor for a peak
month in a wet year for the lowest buildable floor elevation. The lowest
buildable floor elevation shall be a minimum of three (3) feet above the
highest groundwater level in a wet year.
iv.   Foundation drains shall be required depending on the recommendations
based on the Geotechnical report.
 
9-8E-2: SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS
The Subdivision Improvement Plan includes all construction drawings, including
the following:
A.   Notation of approval by the owner, City Engineer, and Utility providers,
as applicable
B.   Utility Plan sheet, which includes, but is not limited to, the following:
a.   Title block (as described on cover sheet)
b.   Proposed subdivision drawings drawn to scale of no more than 1” = 50’
c.   Proposed lot layout – showing the following
i.   Lot or parcel numbers
ii.   Lot property lines
d.   Symbols legend distinguishing between existing & proposed features
e.   Existing improvements showing the location of all existing features,
including:
i.   Location of street signs, traffic regulatory signs, street lights and
cluster mail boxes
ii.   Roads, structures and fences, historic roads and access trails
iii.   Existing water courses culverts and irrigation ditches
iv.   Floodplain zones
v.   Existing utilities including water mains and valves, fire hydrants, sewer
mains and manholes, irrigation lines, power lines, gas lines, storm water
system features, street lights and traffic regulatory signage in and adjacent
to the proposed subdivision.
vi.   Existing public utility easements, e.g. gas, water, sewer, irrigation,
power, etc.
vii.   Existing easements for other utilities, entities or persons
f.   Proposed utilities including but not limited to:
i.   Location of all proposed utility service laterals
ii.   Location and size of all water mains and valves
iii.   Location of all connections to existing water and sewer mains
iv.   Location and size of all sewer mains and manholes
v.   Location and size of pressurized irrigation lines
vi.   Location of all fire hydrants
vii.   Location and size of all street lights
viii.   Proposed changes to water courses, culverts or irrigation ditches.
ix.   Location of all survey monuments
x.   PI pipe slope direction
xi.   PI AIRF’s and drains
xii.   Culinary water blow-offs
g.   Proposed right-of-way improvements including but not limited to:
i.   Streets with proposed names, centerlines, and widths
1.   In instances of steep terrain, plans shall include elevations of proposed
streets
ii.   Typical street cross sections, as per City Development Standards and
Construction details
iii.   Curb, gutter, sidewalks and trails
h.   Storm Drain/Grading Plan shall include, but not be limited to:
i.   Title Block (as described on Cover sheet)
ii.   Existing topography (2’ minimum contours, survey grade) shown as light or
dashed lines
iii.   Proposed grading shown as solid lines (2’ minimum contours, 5’ in
hillside overlay zone, survey grade)
iv.   Show retaining walls, if any, providing engineering calculations for all
retaining walls 4’ or taller
v.   Erosion and dust mitigation plan
vi.   Vegetation re-establishment plans
vii.   Proposed storm drain system including:
1.   Label on site storm drainage retention areas
2.   Label off-site storm drainage areas
3.   Location of curb boxes, sumps, and/or other storm drainage systems
4.   Label slopes at various locations and grade breaks
viii.   Calculations for storm drainage systems, including percolation tests
witnessed by a City
ix.   Signed, stamped & dated by a professional engineer
x.   North Arrow and Scale Bar
C.   Plan & Profile Sheets, which include, but are not limited to:
a.   Title block as described for preliminary submittal
b.   Designing engineer’s stamp, signature & date on each sheet
c.   Details for all proposed improvements and utilities
d.   Plan and profile for each street, sewer, and/or storm drain alignment at a
vertical scale of 1” to 1’, 2’, 3’ or 1’ to 4’ including
i.   Footings
ii.   Location and slopes of existing utilities and topography
iii.   Proposed centerline road grades and vertical curves: Where a proposed
road intersects an existing road or roads, the elevation along the centerline
of the existing road or roads within one hundred feet (100') of the
intersection shall be shown. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths of
tangents, and central angles on all streets.
iv.   Slope and location of proposed sewer and storm drain system features
v.   Invert elevations for proposed sewer, water and storm drain system
features
vi.   Finished elevations of all sewer manholes and storm water inlets/manholes
vii.   All other infrastructure locations: Plans and profiles showing the
locations and typical sidewalks, drainage easements, irrigation ditches,
servitudes, rights of way, manholes and catch basins; the location of street
trees, streetlights and street signs; the location, size and invert elevations
of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm water drains and fire hydrants,
showing connections to any existing or proposed utility systems; and exact
location and size of all water, gas or other underground utilities or
structures.
viii.   Limits of disturbances and revegetation plan
ix.   If the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream, the distances and
bearings of a meander line established not less than twenty feet (20') back
from the ordinary high water mark of such waterways
 
9-8E-3: FINAL PLAT
The following shall accompany a Final Plat submittal:
A.   Completed Final Plat Application
B.   Application fee, which covers a maximum of two reviews. Additional reviews
may require additional fees, based on staff time required
C.   Preliminary Title Report from a licensed title company and no older than
thirty (30) days
D.   Tax history, which will be verified by the City. All taxes must be current
prior to recordation of a development with no other lien or encumbrance on the
property that could impede the subdivision
E.   Cover sheet, drawn as required for preliminary submittal, including any
and all corrections required as part of preliminary review.
F.   Final Plat:
a.   Electronic PDF files formatted for 24” x 36”
b.   All plans must be prepared by a licensed surveyor and/or engineer
c.   All improvements and details shall comply with the City Development
Standards and Construction Details.
d.   Final Plat shall be drawn as required for preliminary submittal, including
any and all corrections required as part of preliminary review.
e.   There shall be an unencumbered margin of one and one-half (1 1/2) inches
on the left-hand side of the sheet and not less than a half (1/2) inch margin
around the outer three (3) sides of the sheets. The scale shall be a standard
engineering scale of no more than 100 feet to the inch. Space for approved
signatures shall include:
i.   Owners’ dedication and acknowledgment
ii.   City Engineer’s approval
iii.   Mayor’s signature
iv.   City Recorder’s attestation
v.   Public Utilities acceptance
vi.   Public Health Department approval if it is determined the property is not
served by the public sewer system
vii.   Planning Commission acceptance
viii.   County Recorder’s certificate
f.   A tie to a section corner and the state plane coordinates of each point.
All horizontal data shall be based on the 1927 North American Datum (NAD27) or
1983 North American Datum (NAD83) State Plane Coordinate System. Horizontal
datum shall be clearly written on the plat. This shall include all survey
monuments and proposed hydrant locations.
g.   The boundary dimensions and legal description of the subdivision.
h.   The proposed subdivision name.
i.   A minimum scale of one inch equals fifty (50) feet (1”=50’).
j.   A north arrow facing the top right margin.
k.   A date on each sheet.
l.   A legend of symbols.
m.   Accurate dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to describe
boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use,
and other important features; the lines, angles, dimensions, state plane
coordinates, bearings, areas and numbers of all lots, blocks and parts reserved
for any reason within the subdivision. All dimensions shall be determined by an
accurate field survey which shall balance and close.
n.   All lots and blocks are to be numbered, addressed, and named in accordance
with the street numbering and naming system assigned by the City Engineer.
Streets indicating numbers and/or names and lots numbered consecutively.
o.   All statements to be included on the plat as required in City Code.
p.   The name of the engineer or surveyor with a stamp and signature of a
surveyor licensed in the state of Utah.
q.   Notation of any additional restrictions, such as conditions from a
variance or mitigation requirements for a natural hazard
G.   Specific Requirements: the following apply depending on location and type
of project, as determined by the City Engineer or other applicable reviewing
member:
a.   Phasing plan, including construction of infrastructure, amenities and
landscaping
b.   Landscape and irrigation plans where required as part of a PUD, multi-
family or condominium plat
c.   UDOT, Railroad, Irrigation Company and/or USPS review and approval, if
necessary
d.   Final Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC& R’s), if necessary
e.   Documentation for any off-site easements. Any off-site easement necessary
to facilitate the needs of the proposed lots shall be recorded prior to or in
conjunction with the recording of the Final Plat.
f.   Monument Markers in Place: All monuments erected, corners and other points
established in the field shall be in their proper places. The material of which
the monuments, corners or other points are made shall be noted at the
representation thereof or by legend. The legend for metal monuments shall
indicate the kind of metal, the diameter, length and weight per linear foot of
the monuments.
H.   Performance Guarantee
a.   This shall be in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney and in an amount
established by the City, in accordance with the provisions of the subdivision
and master planned development code, upon recommendation of the City Engineer,
and shall include a provision that the principal of the guarantee shall comply
with all the terms of the resolution of final subdivision plat approval as
determined by the Administrative Land Use Authority and shall include, but not
be limited to, the performance of all required subdivision on-site and off-site
improvements, and that all improvements and land included in the irrevocable
offer of dedication shall be dedicated to the City free and clear of all liens
and encumbrances on the premises.
I.   After Final Plat approval, the applicant shall submit the following:
a.   Mylar Plat for recording
i.   Payment, in a form acceptable to the City and County, to County Recorder’s
office for recording fees
ii.   Plats and signatures shall be in waterproof ink on a 24x36 inch mylar
sheet.
b.   Construction plans, as approved as part of the Subdivision Improvement
Plan during the Preliminary Plat review and approval process.
i.   Six (6) 24” x 36” final approved copies of all construction plans must be
submitted after final approval and prior to construction.
 
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
4-1-1: NUISANCES DEFINED AND DECLARED:
A.   Nuisances Defined: Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and
whatever renders soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome, is declared to
be a nuisance and unlawful.
B.   Nuisances Declared Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person, as an
owner, agent, or occupant to create, aid in creating, contribute or maintain a
nuisance.
C.   Responsible Party Defined: 
1.   The party or parties responsible for a nuisance shall be deemed to be the
owner of record, any tenant occupying the property, the agent of either of
these, and all other persons having control of the property upon which a
nuisance exists that is an outgrowth of the usual, natural, or necessary use of
the property or of the business or activities conducted thereon.
2.   The party or parties responsible for a nuisance that is not an outgrowth
of the usual, natural, or necessary use of the property upon which it exists,
where any such nuisance shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use of such
property or from the business or activities conducted thereon, shall be deemed
to be the property’s occupants and all other persons contributing to the
continuance of such nuisance.
D.   Declaration Of Nuisance:
1.   Every act performed or undertaken and every condition caused, permitted,
allowed, or continued in violation of this section is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and may be abated and punished as provided in Chapter 4 of this Title.
   2.   The following, without limitation, are hereby declared to be nuisances:
a.   Causing or permitting conditions that befoul the water of any spring,
stream, well, or water source supplying culinary water;
b.   Allowing any privy vault, cesspool, or other individual wastewater
disposal system to become either a menace to health or a source of odors;
c.   Permitting a garbage container to become unclean and offensive;
d.   Permitting a carcass or carcasses; decaying flesh, fish, fowl, vegetables;
other unwholesome substances; or filthy or offensive water to accumulate or
remain upon any private yard or premises, or to be thrown or conducted onto any
street, alley, public ground, or enclosure so as to be or to be liable to,
become hazardous or offensive;
e.   Permitting any slaughterhouse, market, meat shop, stable, feed yard, or
other place or building wherein any animals are slaughtered, kept, fed, or sold
to become or to remain unclean, malodorous, noisome, or verminous, or in any
other condition detrimental to public health and safety 
f.   Discharging, releasing, spilling, or pouring out any liquid waste,
offensive effluent, filthy water, or refuse of any kind into any street, alley,
sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch, canal, or vacant
lot, which will, or, as a result of continued discharge, would render the place
of discharge offensive, noisome, malodorous, noxious, contaminated, or
otherwise dangerous or detrimental to public health and safety;
g.   Keeping, collecting, or permitting the accumulation of stale or putrid
grease, rotting foodstuffs, sour milk or other dangerous or offensive matter;
h.   Keeping or offering drinking vessels for public use without providing for
decontamination between uses;
i.   Failing to furnish any dwelling house, boarding house, factory, or other
place of employment with such privy vaults, water closets, sinks, or other
facilities as necessary to maintain the same in sanitary condition;
j.   Failing, within 20 days after issuance of relevant notice, either (i) to
repair, clean out, or disinfect, or (ii) to discontinue the use of, and fill up
a privy vault, cesspool, or other individual wastewater disposal system;
k.   Creating or permitting conditions that obstruct, interfere with, or render
dangerous to passage any street, sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage,
canal, basin, or public park without written permission from the town council;
l.   Making, or permitting the making of unnecessary and or extreme noise, or
vibration, or carrying on any activity, business, or amusement in such a way as
to annoy or to disturb the peace and quiet of other persons;
m.   Storing or accumulating, or permitting the storage or accumulation of any
of the following where not permitted by the applicable zoning: (i) uncontained
garbage, refuse, litter, or other solid waste; (ii) auto parts, tires, scrap
metal, machinery, or machinery parts; or (iii) junk, abandoned items,
construction supplies, or household goods;
n.   Except where permitted by applicable zoning regulations, the parking or
storge of inoperative, unregistered, abandoned, wrecked, or partially
dismantled vehicles, including cars, boats, trailers, or trailer parts,
including recreational vehicles of any kind;
o.   Parking or storing inoperable construction equipment of any sort when it
is readily visible from a public street, alley, or adjoining property, unless
(i) excavation, construction, or demolition, covered by an active building
permit, are in progress on the subject property or an adjoining property, or
(ii) the property is zoned for the parking or storage of construction
equipment;
p.   Permitting or creating any attractive nuisance dangerous to children or
other persons, including, but not limited to, any of the following:
i.   abandoned, broken, or neglected household appliances, equipment, and
machinery;
ii.   abandoned foundations or excavations;
iii.   abandoned, unmaintained, or unsecured outhouses or privies;
iv.   improperly maintained or secured pools; or
v.   Abandoned, discarded, or unattended chests, boxes, refrigerators,
freezers, or other such containers having a door or lock which cannot be opened
or released from the inside, unless such door or lock has been removed so that
no person may become trapped thereby;
q.   Erecting any privy, toilet, or outhouse for depositing or collecting human
excreta.
r.    Stacking or permitting the accumulation of wood scraps, shavings, straw,
chaff, hay, grain, forage, and the like within 50 feet of any dwelling or in
any place where it might reasonably pose a fire hazard;
s.   Permitting the growth of weeds, grass, or plant life until it becomes
dangerous, unsightly, or violative of section 4-3-2 of this title;
t.   Building or allowing to be built any structure contrary to applicable
zoning regulations, or putting any building to a use not permitted in the zone
in which such building lies; or
u.   undertaking, permitting, or allowing any action analogous to the above-
listed nuisances in such a way as to create conditions which are (i) noisome,
noxious, or malodorous, (ii) dangerous to public health and safety; or (iii)
offensive to public morals.
v. l. abandoned buildings, structures, rubbish, or other habitat for rats,
mice, raccoons, or other vermin.
 
E.    Abatement of Nuisances: Corinne City may abate nuisances pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 4 of this Title, “Abatement of Violations.”  
   F.   Civil and Criminal Penalties: In addition to any other penalty provided
by law, any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter shall constitute a class C misdemeanor, subject to the civil and
criminal penalties set forth in Section 1-4-1 hereof, regardless of whether or
not the Town pursues abatement under Section 4-4-4.A.
. . . .
 
CHAPTER 4
ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS
4-4-1:    AUTHORITY TO ABATE VIOLATIONS — RESPONSIBILITY:
A.   Authority: Any condition caused, permitted, or maintained in violation of
any provision of this Title 4 may be abated by Corinne City pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this Chapter.
B.   Responsibility: The owner of any property, as well as any non-owner
occupant thereof, has an affirmative duty to maintain that property free of any
violation under Section 4-1-1.
4-4-2:   THE MUNICIPAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment:   Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-11-1(1)(b), the Corinne City
Town Council shall appoint a municipal inspector for the purpose of carrying
out inspections and directing abatements as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   Powers:   
1.   The municipal inspector shall examine and investigate real property in
Corinne City to ascertain the existence and extent of any violation of the
provisions of Section 4-1-1 hereof.
2.   Upon finding that a violation of Section 4-4-1 exists, the inspector shall
deliver written notice thereof in accordance with Subsection 4-4-3.
3.   The inspector may neither authorize nor direct the abatement of conditions
associated solely with a structure’s interior unless required for the
structure’s demolition and removal.
4-4-3:   NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Contents:   The written notice of violation described in Subsection 4-
4-2.B.2 shall:
1.   Identify the property owner according to the records of the county
recorder;
2.   Identify and describe the property;
3.   Explain the nature and results of the inspector’s examination under
Subsection 4-4-2.B.1, specifically describing the violation(s) existing on the
property; and
4.   Order the property owner to eradicate, remove, repair, or otherwise abate
the identified violation(s) on the property within a reasonable period of time,
as determined by the inspector, but in no case fewer than ten days after the
written notice is delivered in person or postmarked.
   B.   Service:
1.   The inspector shall mail the written notice of violation:
a.   To the last-known address of the property owner as given in the records of
the county recorder; and
b.   To the property address, if different from the address in Subsection 4-4-
3.B.1.a.
   C.   The inspector shall serve the written notice of violation under penalty
of perjury.
4-4-4:   FAILURE TO CURE:
   A.   Abatement:   If the owner or other party responsible for the property
identified in the written notice of violation fails to comply with the
inspector’s order pursuant to Subsection 4-4-3.A.4, the inspector, at the
town’s expense, may employ such assistance as necessary to enter the property
and eradicate, remove, repair, or otherwise abate the violation identified in
the written notice of violation.
   B.   Statement of Expenses:   Upon completion of the abatement contemplated
in Subsection 4-4-4.A, the inspector shall prepare a statement of expenses
including:
1.   a.   The address of the property upon which the inspector has conducted
the abatement;
b.   An itemized list of and demand of payment for all expenses incurred by the
town in conducting the abatement under Subsection 4-4-4.A, including
administrative costs;
c.   Notice to the property owner (i) that failure to pay the expenses set
forth in the itemized list could result in a lien being filed against the
property; and (ii) that the property owner may file a written objection to all
or any part of the statement of expenses within 20 days after the date the
statement was mailed; and
d.   The address of the town offices where payment may be made or an objection
filed.
2.   The statement of expenses shall be mailed by certified mail to the
property owner’s last-known address, according to the records of the county
recorder, within 30 days after completion of the abatement conducted pursuant
to Subsection 4-4-4.A.
3.   a.   The town may file notice of a lien against the property, including a
copy of the statement of expenses or a summary thereof, in the office of the
county recorder.
   b.   Upon the property owner’s payment of the costs set forth in the
statement of expenses, the town shall file a release of the lien filed under
Subsection 4-4-4.B.3.a.
   C.   Objection and Hearing:1.   If a property owner files a timely written
objection to the statement of expenses under Subsection 4-4-4.B.1.c(ii), the
town council shall hold a hearing wherein it shall review and determine the
actual cost of the abatement.
a.   The hearing shall be held in accordance with Title 52, Chapter 4 of the
Utah Code, the Open and Public Meetings Act.
b.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing shall be mailed to the
property owner at least 10 days prior thereto.
2.   If, after the hearing, the town council determines that actual costs are
owing, the property owner shall pay the costs due to the town treasurer within
30 days after the date on which the hearing is held.
4-4-5:   FAILURE TO PAY:   If the owner of property subject to an abatement
conducted pursuant to Subsection 4-4-4.A fails to pay the costs due and owing
under Subsections 4-4-4.B.1.b or 4-4-4.C.2, the town may:
   A.   Seek judicial foreclosure of a lien filed under Section 4-4-4.B.3.a;
   B.   File an action in district court for the costs due and owing, including
removal and destruction expenses, administrative costs, and reasonable attorney
fees, interest, and court costs, and execute on any judgment obtained as
provided by law; or
   C.   Certify to the county treasurer the unpaid costs and expenses that the
town incurred in conducting the abatement for entry on the assessment and tax
rolls of the county, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-11-4 or its successor statute
(s), as a political subdivision lien.
1.   The town may pursue judicial foreclosure to enforce the lien under 4-4-5.C
rather than relying on a tax sale.
a.   The municipality shall record the lien in the office of the county
recorder.
b.   The priority date of the lien is the date on which the town records the
lien.
2.   Payment by the property owner of the costs and expenses entered upon the
tax rolls by the county treasurer releases the lien against the property, and
the town shall thereupon record in the county recorder’s office a release of
the lien.
TITLE 5   
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 2
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
5-2-3:   UNLAWFUL PUBLIC ACTS:   
A.   The following are declared to be unlawful public acts:
1.   Depositing any foul, offensive, unwholesome, nauseating, dangerous, or
otherwise injurious substance upon any public sidewalk, street, alley,
thoroughfare, or other public place, or upon any private property within the
limits of Corinne City.
2.   Permitting or performing ablutions in or near any public fountain,
reflecting pool, cascade, or other ornamental water feature.
3.   Defecating or urinating on a street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place.
4.   Writing or drawing lewd, obscene, indecent, or otherwise offensive words
or images on or around a public toilet.
5.   Placing graffiti of any kind on any structure or surface without the
express permission of the owner thereof.
6.   Creating or permitting conditions that Obstruct, interfere with, or render
dangerous to passage any street, sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage, canal,
basin, or public park without written permission from the town council.
7.   Spitting or expectorating on the walls, floors, or furnishings of any
public building or conveyance, or upon any sidewalk or street.
B.   A violation of this section is punishable as a class C misdemeanor.
 
 
2023 Recommended Code Amendments
The Corinne City Code has ten Title sections. The review and recommendations
pertain to Title 9: Subdivision and Master Planned Developments. The
recommendations are in a redline format, insertions are in red, and deletions
are shown as strikethrough. Comments are shown only as a short summary or
explanation of the recommendation.
Attached_in_PDF
 
 
ORDINANCE No. 25-03
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CORINNE CITY COUNCIL, ADOPTING PROCEDURES FOR THE DISPOSAL
OF SURPLUS PROPERTY OWNED BY THE CITY.
WHEREAS, Corinne City is a political subdivision of the State of Utah, the
governing body of which is a duly constituted town council; and
WHEREAS, Corinne City is a municipality governed in part by the Utah Code Title
10, Utah Municipal Code;
WHERAS, Corinne City desires to have a process in place to dispose of surplus
real property it owns;
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Corinne City Town Council, as follows:
 
Title 7: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY, of the Corrine City Code is amended as
follows to create the following Chapter 3 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY:
Chapter 3: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY or Lease of Public Property Section:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Unlawful Use
7-3-3: Determination of Surplus Town Property
7-3-4: Disposal of Significant Parcel of Real Property
 
7-3-1: Definitions.
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
DISPOSAL: The conveyance or transfer of an interest in Town Property.
SURPLUS TOWN PROPERTY: Town Property determined by the mayor with the consent
of the Corrine City Council as not being needed for present or future use by
the Town.
TOWN: The town of Corinne City, Utah.
TOWN COUNCIL: The town council of Corinne City, Utah.
TOWN PROPERTY: Real property that is owned or leased by the Town.
 
7-3-2: Determination of Surplus Town Property
A.   The mayor may dispose of Surplus Town Property if the Town Council has
determined by adoption of a resolution which identifies the Surplus Town
Property and includes findings the Town Property is surplus to the present or
future needs of the Town. The resolution may also direct the disposal of the
Surplus Public Property and the method of disposal.
7-3-3: Disposal of Surplus Town Property - Authority
A.   The Town shall have authority to sell, lease, convey, dispose, or
transfer, Surplus Town Property for the benefit of the Town, whether the
Surplus Town Property is within or without the Town’s corporate boundaries, if
the action is in the public interest as provided in Utah Code Annotated section
10-8-2 and this Chapter.
B.   The Town shall investigate and ensure that Town Property determined to be
Surplus Town Property has no further value or benefit to the Town.
C.   The Surplus Town Property may be disposed of only after, public notice as
provided in Section 7-3-4 of this chapter.
D.   The Town may, but is not required to, engage one or more licensed real
estate agents to market the Surplus Town Property and may compensate real
estate agents involved in the sale, lease, or conveyance, of Surplus Town
Property.
 
7-3-4: Notice of Disposal of Surplus Town Property.
Prior to the disposal of Surplus Town Property a sign advertising the Town’s
intent to dispose of the Surplus Town Property shall be posted on the Surplus
Town Property at least thirty (30) days prior to disposal, the Town shall
provide notice pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 63G-30-102(5).
 
**Signatures on Following Page**
 
APPROVED AND ADOPTED this ___17th___ day of June 2025.
 
                     
 
                     TOWN OF CORINNE CITY, UTAH
   
 
   ______________________________________
                  Mayor Shane Baton
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
______________________________________
Town Clerk/Recorder Kendra Norman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Record of Proceedings)
 
   The Town Council (the “Town Council”) of the Town of Corinne City, Box Elder
County, Utah, met in public session at the regular meeting place of the Town
Council at 2420 North 4000 West in Corinne, Utah, on June 17, 2025 (the
“Meeting”), at the hour of 7:00pm., or as soon thereafter as feasible, with the
following members of the Town Council being present:
 
Shane Baton  Mayor
Ann Whitaker Town Councilmember
Greg Harris  Town Councilmember
Tom Little   Town Councilmember
Wade Layton  Town Councilmember
 
Also present:
 
Kendra Norman Town Clerk/Recorder
 
Absent:   
 
Karen Caldwell Town Councilmember
which constituted all the members thereof.
 
   After the Meeting had been duly called to order and after other matters were
discussed, and the public hearings were held, the foregoing ordinance (the
“Ordinance”) was introduced in written form and fully discussed.
 
   A motion to adopt the Ordinance was then duly made by Ann Whitaker and
seconded by Tom Little, and the Ordinance was put to a vote and carried, the
vote being as follows:
 
   Those voting YEA:    
   Greg Harris, Ann Whitaker, Tom Little and Wade Layton
   Those voting NAY:    
 
   Those Abstaining:    
 
   Other business not pertinent to the Ordinance appears in the minutes of the
Meeting. Upon the conclusion of all business on the Agenda and motion duly made
and carried, the Meeting was adjourned.
CERTIFICATE OF TOWN CLERK/RECORDER
 
   I, Kendra Norman, the duly appointed and qualified Town Clerk/Recorder of
Town of Corinne City (the “Corinne City”), do hereby certify that the attached
Ordinance is a true, accurate and complete copy thereof as adopted by the Town
Council of Corinne City at a public meeting duly held on June 17, 2025 (the
“Meeting”). The persons present and the result of the vote taken at the Meeting
are all as shown above. The Ordinance, with all exhibits attached, was
deposited in my office on June 17, 2025, and is officially of record in my
possession.
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and impressed
hereon the official seal of the Corinne City, this June 17, 2025
 
 
 
______________________________________
                  Town Clerk/Recorder
 
[SEAL]
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH
OPEN MEETINGS LAW
   I, Kendra Norman, the undersigned Town Clerk/Recorder of Town of Corinne
City (“Corinne City”), do hereby certify, according to the records of the
Corinne City in my official possession, and upon my own knowledge and belief,
that in accordance with the requirements of Section 52-4-202, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended, I gave not less than twenty-four (24) hours public
notice of the agenda, date, time and place of the June 17, 2025, public meeting
held by the governing body of the Corinne City as follows:
 
(a)   By causing a notice, in the form attached hereto (the “Meeting Notice”),
to be posted at the principal office of Corinne City at least twenty-four (24)
hours prior to the convening of the meeting, the Meeting Notice having
continuously remained so posted and available for public inspection until the
completion of the meeting; and
 
(b)   By causing a copy of the Meeting Notice to be posted on the Corinne City
Website at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the convening of the meeting.
 
(c)   By causing a copy of the Meeting Notice to be posted on the Utah Public
Notice Website at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the convening of the
meeting.
 
   In addition, I caused a copy of the Notice of the Public Hearings on the
Surplus Property Ordinance, in the form attached hereto, to be posted in three
public places at least ten (10) days prior to the hearings.
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my official signature this
____day of June 2025.
 
 
____________________________________
                  Town Clerk/Recorder
 
(SEAL)
 
(Attach Meeting Notice)
 
(Attach Notice of Public Hearings)
 
 
 
ORDINANCE # 25-04
 
CORINNE CITY DOG ORDINANCE
 
THEREFORE: BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CORINNE CITY COUNCIL, BOX ELDER COUNTY, STATE
OF UTAH, as follows, to-witness:
 
 
1.    ADMINISTRATION
 
The Corinne City Council or authorized agent shall resolve dog-related disputes
within the corporate limits of Corinne City.
 
2.    DEFINITIONS
 
A.   Additional Pet. Any dog in addition to the amount allowed per household.
 
B.   Animal Shelter. Any Facility owned and operated by a governmental entity
or any animal welfare organization, which is incorporated within the state of
Utah, for the purpose of preventing cruelty to animals. Used for the care and
custody of seized, stray, homeless, quarantined, abandoned or unwanted dogs,
cats or other domestic animals.
 
C.   At large. A dog shall be considered to be “at large” when it is off the
owner’s property and not under immediate control, by means of a durable
restraint device, capable of keeping the dog restrained.
 
D.   Bite. Any actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the
teeth of an animal.
 
E.   Dangerous Animal. Any animal that, according to the records of the City or
County Police Agency:
1.Has inflicted serious injury on a human being, with or without provocation,
on public or private property;
2. Has killed or injured a domestic animal, with or without provocation, while
off the owners property.
3. Has previously been found to be “potentially dangerous” the owner having
received notice of such, and it is witnessed and documented that the animal
aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic
animals.
4. The animal is found to be in violation of any restrictions placed upon the
animal pertaining to a potentially dangerous animal, as designated in this
ordinance.
   
F.   Dog.  Any Canine over six (6) months of age, any Canine under six (6)
months of age is a puppy.
 
G.   Domestic Animal. Animals accustom to living in or about the habitation of
man, including but not limited to cats, dogs, rabbits, fowl, horses, swine,
goats, sheep, mules, donkeys, llamas, and cattle.
 
H.   Non-conforming. Any one in conflict with this ordinance, as to the number
of dogs, upon its enactment.
 
I.   Owner. Any person or persons, association, firm, or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a dog.
 
J.   Officer. The person or persons appointed by the Mayor and City Council to
give citations and impound dog(s) as needed.
 
K.   Potentially Dangerous Animal.  Any animal that; with or without
provocation, chases or approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds, in a threatening or menacing fashion, or apparent attitude of
attack, or any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack with or without provocation. In addition a potentially dangerous animal
is any animal that, because of witnessed and documented action, is believed
capable of causing injury, or otherwise posing a threat to the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
 
L.   Quarantine. The isolation of an animal in a substantial enclosure, so the
animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.
 
M.   Restraint Device. Any chain, leash, cord, rope, or other device commonly
used to restrain an animal.
 
N.   Vicious Animal. Any animal which:
1.Has inflicted serious injury on a human being, with or without provocation,
on public or private property;
2. Has killed or injured a domestic animal, with or without provocation, while
off the owners property.
3. Has previously been found to be a “dangerous animal”. The owner having
received notice of such and the animal again bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. Or it is witnessed and documented that
the animal is in violation of restrictions placed upon the animal pertaining to
a potentially dangerous or dangerous animal, pursuant to section of this
ordinance.
   
O.   Worry. To harass by tearing, biting, or shaking with the teeth with or
without provocation.
 
 
 
 
 
3. RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR ENFORCEMENT
 
The enforcement of this ordinance, all Officers designated by the Corinne City
Council and Mayor, are hereby authorized to enter onto the open premises of any
person or entity to take possession of any animal in violation of this
ordinance.
 
4. INTERFERENCE WITH AN OFFICER PROHIBITED
 
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, molest, hinder, or obstruct
the pound master or any of his authorized representatives in the discharge of
their duties as herein prescribed.
 
5. ANIMAL SHELTER PROVIDED
 
Impounded animals will be adequately housed and fed for three (3) days, before
being sent to a contracted facility.
 
6. LICENSE AND REGISTRATION OF DOGS
 
6-1 License and Registration
 
A.   It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, board or maintain a
dog within the Corinne City Limits, without registering and obtaining a license
for such dog(s). Available from the Corinne City Recorder or other person
designated by the Mayor and City Council.
B.   The license may be applied for any time after Jan 1, and up to February 28
of any year.
 
C.   All dogs brought into Corinne City shall require registering and licensing
within thirty (30) days after they enter Corinne City, or within thirty (30)
days after reaching the age of six (6) months.
 
D.   Persons who fail to obtain a license, as required within the time period
specified in this section, will be subject to an additional licensing “late
fee”.
 
E.   The owner shall state at the time of application for license, the owner’s
name, address, and the dog’s name, sex, breed, and color.
 
1.   No dog shall be licensed as spayed or neutered without proof that the
surgery has been preformed.
 
EXCEPTION, if a written statement is received from a licensed veterinarian
stating that the animal in question cannot, for a stated reason, have the
surgery preformed, OR that the animal is of such an age that the surgery would
not alter the outcome.
 
2.   Proof that the dog has a current rabies inoculation shall be presented at
the time the license is applied for. Proof must be in writing.
 
EXCEPTION, if a written statement is received from a licensed veterinarian
stating that the animal in question cannot, for stated reasons, have a rabies
inoculation.
 
EXCEPTIONS, if a written statement is received from a licensed veterinarian
stating that the vaccination will be valid through the current calendar year.
 
6-2 Fees for dog licensing
 
A.   This municipality shall issue no dog license until the required fee, as
set forth in the Corinne City fee schedule, is paid.
 
B.   The license fee shall cover the calendar year in which it was issued;
expiring on the 31 st day of December of the year of issuance, regardless of
the date when issued.
 
   6-3 Tag and collar
 
A.   Upon payment of the license fee, the owner shall be issued a license
certificate and a numbered metal tag for each dog so licensed. The tag shall
change each year and shall have stamped thereon the year for which it was
issued. Every dog owner, except those operating a boarding kennel or other such
establishment, shall provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag
must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn.
 
B.   Duplicate license; in case a dog tag is lost or destroyed the recorder
upon presentation of the license for the current year will issue a duplicate.
 
C.   Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another, and no refunds
shall be made on any dog license fee because of the death of the dog or the
owner’s leaving the municipality be fore expiration of the license period.
 
D.   It shall be unlawful to deprive a registered dog of its collar and/or tag.
 
E.   Any dog(s) without a collar with the registration tag attached or has not
been registered, is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be immediately
impounded.
 
6-4 Number of dogs per residence
 
No person or persons at any one residence within the jurisdiction of this
ordinance, shall at any one time own, keep or harbor, board, license or
maintain more than three (3) dogs, six (6) months or older.
A.   PERMITS REQUIRED. Any person maintaining, keeping, harboring, or boarding
four (4) or more dogs, six (6) months or older, within the city limits shall be
required to have an Additional Dog Permit. Payment of the annual additional dog
permit fee shall entitle such owner to license up to six (6) dogs annually. All
applications for said permits should be submitted in writing upon printed forms
provided by the Corinne City Office. Upon approval the City Recorder shall
issue a permit upon payment of the required fee(s), see fee schedule, which is
subject to amendment by the City Council by resolution. The regular license fee
shall also be charged for each dog. Owners shall be subject to all provisions
of this ordinance.
 
7. ANIMALS AT LARGE
 
It shall be unlawful for any dog to be allowed, either negligently or with
specific intent, to run at large as defined in this ordinance. Any dog so found
is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and
safety, and shall be taken up and impounded as provided herein. Whenever
possible the owner shall be notified. The owner or keeper may be cited.
 
8. DANGEROUS AND/OR VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
   8-1 Possession of a potentially dangerous animal
 
Any person or persons who owns or maintains a potentially dangerous animal
shall use all reasonable means at his/her disposal to restrict a potentially
dangerous animal from injuring any person or other animal. The City may from
time to time, impose specific restrictions regarding the housing of potentially
dangerous animals.
 
   8-2 Failure to properly confine a potentially dangerous animal
 
Any owner of any potentially dangerous animal who willfully allows it to go at
large or who fails to hold the same in the manner specified for such an animal,
by Corinne City is guilty of a CLASS C Misdemeanor.
 
   8-3 Possession of a dangerous animal
 
A.   Any dangerous animal while on the owner’s property must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable
to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the animal from
escaping. Such pen or structure for a dangerous animal shall have secure sides
and top and shall also provide protection from the elements for the animal. The
pen or structure shall be such that the animal cannot burrow or dig under the
sides of the enclosure.
 
B.   Dangerous animals, when outside the enclosure, must be under the immediate
control of a responsible adult by means of an adequate restraining device as
defined herein and muzzled. The muzzle shall be made in such a manner that it
will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
 
C.   The city officer may take into immediate possession any dangerous animal
if the officer determines that the animal is:
1.   Not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
2.   Outside of the owner’s dwelling or outside of a proper enclosure and not
under physical restraint; or
3.   If there are any further violations of any legal restrictions previously
placed on such animal provided in this ordinance.
 
8-4 Declaration and disposal of vicious animals
 
If the City officer determines, as a result of a witnessed incident, that an
animal is potentially a danger or dangerous and finds that the animal is in
violation of such restrictions as the City has deemed necessary for the safety
of persons and/or animals in the community. The animal may be declared a
vicious animal. The City may immediately take possession of the vicious animal
and place said animal in a proper quarantine facility and thereafter destroy
the animal in a expeditious and humane manner. If the owner or custodian after
having received notice of such fails to make a request in writing to the
quarantine facility to delay said action.
 
A.    It is determined that a proper holding period for any vicious animal
shall be three (3) working days. In the event the owner or custodian of the
vicious animal fails to request, in writing, a formal hearing within the three
(3) day holding period the holding facility is authorized to destroy the
vicious animal in a humane manner. The holding period shall be extended to meet
state and local regulations for quarantine for animals needing rabies
evaluation.
B.    Any owner or custodian who files a written request shall be afforded a
hearing before the Corinne City Council. It shall be the responsibility of the
Council to determine whether the animal should be returned to the owner or
custodian to be destroyed.
 
1.   At any hearing under this section the Officer making the declaration of a
vicious animal shall appear and testify, under oath, regarding the facts, which
led to the required findings. The Officer shall be subject to cross-examination
by the owner, custodian or authorized representative.
2.   The Officer may also present any additional evidence or sworn testimony
supporting his/her decision. The owner, custodian of the animal may likewise
present evidence or sworn testimony in support of his/her position. The hearing
shall be informal, but shall be recorded.
3.   The Animal Shelter shall not order the destruction of the animal until a
decision is rendered and the Corinne City Council notifies the shelter, in
writing, of the decision.
 
9. NUISANCE
 
9-1 Any people or persons having custody of a dog(s) shall exercise proper care
and control of his/her animal(s) in order to prevent them from becoming a
public nuisance. Any owner or possessor of an animal who keeps such animal
contrary to the provisions of this ordinance shall be guilty of a CLASS C
Misdemeanor and subject to punishment under authority of this ordinance. An
animal shall be deemed to be a public nuisance if the animal:
 
A.   Causes damage to, damages, or destroys property of any one other than the
animal’s owner.
 
B.   Causes unreasonable odors.
 
C.   Causes unsanitary conditions.
 
D.   By loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling or yelping, shall annoy,
disturb or endanger the health and welfare of any person or neighborhood.
Attested to by more than one complainant or witnessed by Corinne City’s animal
control officer.
 
E.   Chases any person, vehicle, bicycle or other animal that is properly
restrained.
 
F.   Bites, attacks, chase or worry a person or domestic animal.
 
1.   The owner in violation of the above shall be strictly liable for damages
to any person injured or to the owner of any animal(s) injured or destroyed
thereby.
 
EXCEPTION, a dog shall not be considered a public nuisance under this section
if it bites a person who is wrongfully assaulting the dog or the dog’s owner,
Or if it bites a person upon the premises owned or occupied by the dog’s owner
after being provoked by that person.
 
G.   Scatters garbage.
 
H.   Urinates or defecates on property of another or city property.
 
I.   Is an animal, which has, been impounded for being at large, or its owner
or possessor has been convicted for a dog being at large on three (3) separate
occasions within a twelve (12) month period.
 
J.   Is an animal previously declared potentially dangerous or dangerous and is
found in violation of restrictions placed on that dog by the City.
 
K.   If the dog trespasses on private property of a person other than the dog’s
owner.
 
L.   A violation of this section shall be a CLASS C Misdemeanor.
 
9-2 Abatement of public nuisance animals
 
A.   Abatement shall be defined to include either relocating or euthanizing the
animal.
 
B.   When it reasonably appears to the City that an animal is a public nuisance
as defined in this chapter, and that such nuisance should be abated, the City
appointed officer shall first attempt to get written consent of the animal’s
owner to abate the animal.
 
C.   If the animal’s owner’s consent cannot be readily obtained, the City may
file with the governing court a charge of Maintenance of a public nuisance. The
charge shall set forth the facts, according to the best information, indicating
that the owner is maintaining a public nuisance, and the nuisance should be
abated. Until such time as the owner may be summoned to appear before the
court, the animal(s) may be impounded, and held pending a decision by the
court.
 
D.   If the charge is denied, a hearing will be set pursuant to the normal
procedure of the governing court. If the court that the charge of maintaining a
public nuisance has been proven, the court shall issue an order setting out the
method of abatement.
 
E.   Abatement, by relocation, shall not be an option if the animal represents
a continuing threat or serious harm, such as in the case of a vicious dog.
 
F.   If relocation is ordered, the court may set whatever conditions are
necessary to guarantee that the said animal shall not constitute a nuisance in
the future.
 
G.   In the event the court determines that, in fact, the animal is a public
nuisance, the owner shall pay the cost of all impoundment fees, maintenance
fees, or any other fee that may incur as a result of such impoundment.
 
10. IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED
 
A.   All animals taken into custody shall be placed in an adequate shelter of
which the City of Corinne has contracted for this purpose.
 
B.   The following animals may be taken into custody and impounded as deemed
necessary:
1.   Any dog being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of this
ordinance.
2.   Any dog running at large, with any reasonable means used to immobilize.
3.   Any dog, which is not licensed: a dog not wearing a tag shall be presumed
to be unlicensed for the purpose of this section.
4.   Any abandoned or neglected dog(s) whose safety may be threatened should
the animal not be readily placed into protective custody.
5.   Dog(s) which are not vaccinated for rabies in accordance with the
requirements of this ordinance.
6.   Any animal needing to be held for quarantine.
7.   Any potentially dangerous or dangerous animal not properly confined as
required by this ordinance.
 
11. REDEMPTION, DESTRUCTION AND DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS
   
11-1 Redemption requirements
 
A.   The owner of an impounded animal or his authorized representative may
redeem such animal before disposition, provided he/she pays:
1. The impound fees;
3.   The daily board charges;
4.   Any veterinary costs incurred during the impoundment period;
5.   Transportation fee, if any;
6.   Any other expenses incurred to impound an animal in accordance with State
or local laws.
 
B.   Fees for impound and boarding shall be set from time to time by the agency
contracted for impounding of animals by Corinne City.
 
11-2 Terms of impoundment, destruction and disposal of animals
 
A.   Animals shall be impounded for a minimum of three (3) working days before
further disposition. If an animal is licensed the impoundment shall be for
three (3) working days.
 
B.   Reasonable effort shall be made to notify the owner of any animal wearing
a license or other identification during that time. Notice shall be deemed
given when sent to the last known address of the listed owner.
 
C.   Any animal voluntarily relinquished to the animal control facility, by the
owner thereof, for destruction or other disposition need not be kept for the
minimum holding period before release or other disposition, as herein provided.
 
D.   All animals, except those quarantined or confined by court order or those
subject to Section 4-25-4, Utah Code annotated, which are held longer than the
minimum impoundment period and all animals voluntarily relinquished to the
impound facility may be destroyed. Any healthy dog may be sold at the
discretion of the Animal Shelter.
 
E.   Any licensed animal impounded and having or suspected of having serious
physical injury or contagious disease requiring medical attention may, at the
discretion of the Animal Shelter be released to the care of a Veterinarian with
or without the consent of the owner.
 
F.   When, in the judgment of the Animal Shelter, it is determined that an
animal should be destroyed for humane reasons or to protect the public from
imminent danger to person or property such animal may be destroyed without
regard to any time limitation otherwise established in this ordinance and
without a court order.
 
12. RABIES CONTROL AND ANIMAL BITES
   
   12-1 Vaccination requirements
 
All dogs shall be vaccinated by a duly licensed veterinarian or at a rabies
clinic. Every dog shall be re-vaccinated every two (2) years thereafter (see
also section 6-1d). Any unvaccinated dog over six (6) months of age, adopted,
or brought into the Jurisdiction, must likewise be vaccinated initially.
Thereafter valid protection must be maintained.
 
   12-2 Impoundment of animals without valid rabies vaccination tag
 
A.   Its owner may reclaim any vaccinated animal impounded because of lack of a
rabies vaccination tag by furnishing proof of a rabies vaccination and payment
of all impoundment fees prior to release.
 
B.   Any unvaccinated animal may be reclaimed prior to disposal by payment of
impound fees and by obtaining or providing proof of a rabies vaccination within
seventy-two (72) hours of release.
 
C.   Any animal not reclaimed within the prescribed period of time shall be
disposed of pursuant to this ordinance.
   
   12-3 Rabid animal reports
   
Any person having knowledge of the whereabouts of an animal known or to have
been exposed to or suspected of having rabies or of an animal or person bitten
by such a suspected animal shall notify Corinne City or the Box Elder County
Health Dept.
 
   12-4 Quarantine and disposition of biting animal
 
A.   An animal that has rabies or shows signs of having rabies and every animal
bitten by another animal affected with rabies or that has been exposed to
rabies shall be reported, by the owner, as set forth above. Shall immediately
be confined in a secure place by the owner. The owner shall turn over the
animal in question to the City officer or designated agent upon demand.
 
B.   The owner of any animal that has been bitten by another animal known to be
capable of harboring the rabies virus shall surrender the animal to an
authorized official upon demand. Any person authorized to enforce this
ordinance may enter upon private property to seize the animal if the owner
refuses to surrender the animal. (see section 3)
 
C.   Any animal subject to rabies that bites a person or animal or is suspected
of having rabies may be seized and quarantined for observation for a period of
not less than fourteen (14) days by the Animal Shelter. The owner of the animal
shall bear the cost confinement. The Animal Shelter shall be the normal place
for such quarantine, but other arrangements, including confinement by the
owner, may be made by the Officer if the animal has current rabies vaccinations
at the time the bite is inflicted or if there are other special circumstances
justifying an exemption. A person who has custody of an animal under quarantine
shall immediately notify Corinne City if the animal shows any sign of sickness
or abnormal behavior or if the animal escapes confinement. It is unlawful for
any person who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail or refuse to allow
an officer or representative of the Health Department to make an inspection or
examination during the period of quarantine.
 
If the animal dies within fourteen (14) days from the date of the bite the
person having custody shall immediately notify Corinne City office in order
that they may have the head immediately remove and deliver to the State Health
Department.
 
If at the end of the fourteen (14) day period an investigating officer of the
City or Animal shelter examines the animal and finds no sign of rabies, the
animal may be released to the owner. In the case of a stray it shall be
disposed of as provided in this ordinance.
 
D.    In the case of an unvaccinated animal, known to have been bitten by a
known rabid animal. Such bitten or exposed animal shall be immediately
destroyed.
 
   12-5 Bites- duty to report
0
A.   Any person having knowledge of any individual or dog having been bitten by
an animal subject to rabies shall report the incident immediately to the Box
Elder County Sheriff Department.
 
B.   The owner of a dog that bites a person and any person bitten by a dog
shall report the bite to the Box Elder County Sheriff Department within twenty-
four (24) hours of the bite.
 
 
C.   A physician or other medical personnel who renders professional treatment
to a person bitten by a dog shall report the fact that he/she has rendered
professional treatment to the Box Elder County Sheriff Department within
twenty-four (24) hours of the first professional attendance. He shall report
the name, sex, and address of the person bitten, as well as the type and
location of the bite. If known, he shall give the name and address of the owner
of the dog that inflicted the bite, and any other facts that may assist the Box
Elder County Sheriff Department.
 
D.   Any person treating an animal bitten, injured, or mauled by another animal
shall report the incident to the Box Elder County Sheriff Department. The
report shall contain the name and address of the owner of the wounded, injured,
or bitten animal, the name and address of the owner and description of the
animal that caused the injury, and the location of the incident.
 
E.   Any person not conforming to the requirements of this chapter shall be in
violation of this ordinance.
 
13. ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
   
   13-1 Investigation
 
Box Elder County Sheriff Department and/or the City officers may enter upon
privately owned land to investigate reports of vicious animals, rabies and
other contagious animal disease and to investigate violations of and enforce
the provisions of this ordinance.
 
13-2 Penalties
 
Unless otherwise specifically provided a violation of any provision of this
ordinance shall be punished as an infraction.
                  
   13-3 Citation for a misdemeanor
 
A.   The City Council, designated officer or any public official charged with
the enforcement of laws of this city, in lieu of taking a person into custody,
may issue and deliver a citation. Requiring any person subject to arrest or
prosecution on a misdemeanor charge to appear at the court of the Magistrate
before whom the person could be taken pursuant to law, if the person had been
arrested.
 
B.   If a citation is issued the City Council or designated officer shall issue
one copy to the person cited and shall within five (5) days file a duplicate
copy with the court specified in the citation.
 
14. NON-CONFORMING
 
An owner who is “non-conforming”, will stay as such until such time that they
come into compliance by reducing the number of dogs, due to death, selling or
giving away of their current dogs, after such time they will be held to the
terms of this ordinance.
 
15. REPEAL
 
Any ordinance, sections or portions of ordinances previously adopted by Corinne
City which are in conflict with the provisions of this ordinance are here by
repealed.
 
16. SEVRABILITY CLAUSE
 
If any part of this ordinance shall be held invalid, such part shall be deemed
severable and the invalidity thereof shall not affect the remaining parts of
this ordinance.
 
This ordinance shall become affective immediately upon being adopted
 
Mayors signature _____________________________ Date _______________
 
 
Recorders signature ___________________________ Date _______________
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 07-05
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CORINNE CITY, UTAH TOWN CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and town council of the town of Corinne City, Utah,
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the town
code of the town of Corinne City, Utah prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the town, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the town as enacted by the mayor and town council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. or whichever codifier is currently
contracted with Corinne City for such, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of
a general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting
provisions of the official town code is identified by the proper catch line and
is inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of
which shall be maintained in the office of the town clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official town
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official town code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the town code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official town code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 20th day of November, 2007.
APPROVED this 20th day of November, 2007.
/s/ Richard Nimori
      Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Kendra Norman
      Town Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
AYES: Ann Whitaker, Barry Evans, Shara Ward
Rufus Barker, Curtis Hansen
NAYS:
ABSENT:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CORINNE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Corinne City. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the CORINNE CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the town council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2007 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2007 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
All amendments made to this code shall be by ordinance. Any ordinance amending
the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and section number of the
section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the amendment or
revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such amendments or
revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the
said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in
each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be properly identified
and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the town code. (2007 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the town
recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of the town code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the town recorder. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the town and
shall be returned to the office of the town recorder when directed so to do by
order of the town council. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the town passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the town; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2007 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2007 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2007 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The town council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and town council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by the code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred to by title,
such as "recorder", "treasurer", etc., such reference shall be construed as if
followed by the words "of the town of Corinne City".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2007 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The town code of Corinne City, Utah.
COUNTY: Box Elder County, state of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to town regulation,
authorization or limitation.
GOVERNING BODY: The town council of Corinne City, Utah.
HIGHWAY, ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road" and "state road".
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of the town.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TIME, HOW COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in
any ordinance or in any resolution or order of the town, when expressed in
days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last
day, except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day
shall be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a
Sunday or legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal
holidays shall be excluded.
TOWN: Corinne City, Utah.
TOWN COUNCIL: The town council of Corinne City, Utah.
WEEK: Any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2007 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2007
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Criminal: The town council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the town
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the town, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this town has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2007 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this town shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date hereof which involve an
offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance with this
chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this town when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this town, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this town which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2007 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 76-3-104.
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-5-2: Election, Terms; Vacancies
1-5-3: Mayor As Member Of Town Council
1-5-4: Meetings; Procedure And Conduct
1-5-5: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedures
1-5-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a town office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the town in which the person seeks office
for at least three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days immediately before
the date of the election; and
      2.   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
   B.   Annexed Areas: A person living in an area annexed to the town meets the
residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the area
annexed to the town for at least three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive
days before the date of the election.
   C.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to town office shall be a
registered voter in the town.
   D.   Residency Maintained: Each elected officer of the town shall maintain
residency within the boundaries of the town during the officer's term of
office.
   E.   Residence Outside Town: If an elected officer of the town establishes a
principal place of residence as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-2-
105 outside of the town during the officer's term of office, the office is
automatically vacant.
   F.   Continuous Absence From Town: If an elected town officer is absent from
the town any time during the officer's term of office for a continuous period
of more than sixty (60) days without the consent of the town council, the town
office is automatically vacant. (2007 Code)
1-5-2: ELECTION, TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Election; Terms: The election and terms of office shall be as follows:
      1.   The offices of mayor and two (2) council members shall be filled in
municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      2.   The offices of the other three (3) council members shall be filled
in a municipal election held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years.
These offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      3.   The offices shall be filled in at large elections, which shall be
held at the time and in the manner provided for electing municipal officers.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or town council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (2007 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Administration Vested In Mayor: The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the mayor.
   B.   Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The mayor shall be the
chairperson and preside at the meetings of the town council. In the absence of
the mayor or because of his inability or refusal to act, the town council may
elect a member of the town council to preside over the meeting as mayor pro
tempore, who shall have all the powers and duties of the mayor during his
absence or disability. The election of a mayor pro tempore shall be entered in
the minutes of the meeting.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The mayor is the chief executive officer to whom all employees of
the town shall report.
      2.   The mayor shall:
         a.   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the town;
         b.   Remit fines and forfeitures;
         c.   Report remittances under subsection C2b of this section to the
town council at its next regular session;
         d.   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
         e.   Ensure that all the laws and ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
         f.   Report to the town council the condition of the town and
recommend for town council consideration any measures that the mayor considers
to be in the best interests of the town;
         g.   When necessary, call on the residents of the town over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the state and
ordinances of the town;
         h.   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the town council, persons
to fill town offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the town; and
         i.   Report to the town council any release granted under subsection
C3b of this section.
      3.   The mayor may:
         a.   At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official books,
papers, records or documents of the town or of any officer, employee or agent
of the town; and
         b.   Release any person imprisoned for violation of any town
ordinance.
   D.   No Veto: The mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the town
council, unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (2007 Code)
1-5-4: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The governing body shall conduct regular meetings,
which shall be held on the first and third Tuesdays of each month, at Corinne
City hall, which meetings shall begin promptly at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.;
provided, that:
      1.   If the meeting date is a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be
held at the same time and place above described on the next following day which
is not a legal holiday.
      2.   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for a different time
and place for holding regular meetings of the governing body. (Ord. 04-03, 10-
5-2004; amd. 2007 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the town requires a
special meeting of the governing body, such meeting may be ordered by the mayor
or any two (2) members of the governing body. The order shall be entered in the
minutes of the governing body. The order shall provide at least three (3)
hours' notice of the special meeting, and notice thereof shall be served by the
town recorder on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the
notice personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The
personal appearance by a member at any specially called meeting constitutes a
waiver of the notice required in this section. (2007 Code)
1-5-5: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The town council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the town shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the town council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states: "Be it ordained by Corinne City:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
town ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance;
      9.   A place for the town recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the town;
      10.   Where the mayor may disapprove an ordinance passed by the town
council, the ordinance must show that it was passed with the mayor's approval
or that if the mayor disapproved the ordinance, that it was passed over his
disapproval. If the mayor neither approves or disapproves an ordinance, the
ordinance should show that it became effective without the approval or
disapproval of the mayor.
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the town council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
town council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4).
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the town council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the town council, whichever is sooner.
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances:
      1.   Before an ordinance may take effect, the legislative body of the
town adopting an ordinance, except an ordinance enacted under Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-3-706 through 10-3-710, shall:
         a.   Deposit a copy of the ordinance in the office of the town
recorder; and
         b.   (1) Publish a short summary of the ordinance at least once:
               (A)   In a newspaper published within the town; or
               (B)   If there is no newspaper published within the town, in a
newspaper of general circulation within the town; or
            (2)   Post a complete copy of the ordinance in three (3) public
places within the town.
      2.   a. Any ordinance, code or book, other than the state code, relating
to building or safety standards, municipal functions, administration, control
or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
publication or posting, if reference is made to the code or book and at least
one copy has been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of
the town recorder prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the governing body.
         b.   Any state law relating to building or safety standards, municipal
functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and shall
take effect without further publication or posting if reference is made to the
state code.
         c.   The ordinance adopting the code or book shall be published in the
manner provided in this subsection.
   E.   Recording, Numbering And Certification Of Passage: The town recorder
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all ordinances
passed by the town council. The town recorder shall give each ordinance a
number, if the town council has not already so done. Immediately following each
ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the town recorder shall make or cause
to be made a certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of
publication or posting, as required. The record and memorandum, or a certified
copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the content, passage and
publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the town council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for town services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the town property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the town council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect upon passage or at a later
date as the town council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-6-2: Compensation
1-6-3: Oaths
1-6-4: Town Recorder And Town Treasurer
1-6-5: Deputy Treasurer
1-6-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Offices Created By Council: The Town Council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the Town and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices.
   B.   Mayor To Appoint And Fill Vacancies: The Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Town Council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   C.   Continuation In Office: All appointed officers shall continue in office
until their successors are appointed and qualified. (2007 Code)
1-6-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Specified: The monthly compensation for the following positions shall
be as follows:
Legislative/administrative:  
Legislative/administrative:  
 Mayor                     $200.00
 Council member            100.00
 Planning Commission       50.00
 Treasurer                 Grade 3
 Recorder                  Grade 7
 Deputy Recorder           Grade 3
 Public Works Director     Grade 7
 Public Works              Grade 7
 Animal control officer    $15.00 per call/per hour
Public safety:               
 Fire Chief                $200.00
 Assistant Chief           100.00
 Captains                  75.00
 Secretary                 50.00
 
   B.   Payment: The Recorder shall pay each elected officer on the first
regular Town Council meeting of each month. The Recorder shall also pay all
statutory officers biweekly, payable on Friday, by direct deposit drawn on the
Municipal checking account.
   C.   Per Diem: Each member of the Governing Body shall receive mileage and
per diem for all trips approved by the Governing Body according to the
schedules adopted by the State of Utah and Federal per diem rate. (Ord. 16-01,
4-5-2016, eff. 5-1-2016)
1-6-3: OATHS:
   A.   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office.
   B.   Filing: The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any Judge, notary public or by the Town Recorder. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is
practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering
on their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the Town Recorder.
   C.   Acts Of Officials Not Voided: No official act of any Town officer shall
be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of office. (2007
Code)
1-6-4: TOWN RECORDER AND TOWN TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a Town
election, the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, shall
appoint a qualified person to each of the Offices of Town Recorder and Town
Treasurer.
   B.   Ex Officio Auditor: The Town Recorder is ex officio the Town auditor
and shall perform the duties of that office. (2007 Code)
1-6-5: DEPUTY TREASURER:
   A.   In the absence of the Town Treasurer, the Deputy Treasurer, appointed
by the Governing Body, must sign all checks prepared by the Town Recorder under
the direction of the Director of Finance.
   B.   The Deputy Treasurer shall assume all duties of the Town Treasurer in
the absence of the Treasurer as provided in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-5-
127 and 10-6-143. (Ord. 05-01, 4-20-2005)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conduct
1-7-2: Primary Election; When Held
1-7-1: CONDUCT:
Election for mayor and council members shall be conducted according to the
municipal election section of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404(1) and (2).
(Ord. 05-03, 5-23-2005)
1-7-2: PRIMARY ELECTION; WHEN HELD:
This section provides for the candidates for mayor and council members to be
nominated at a primary election if required. A primary election will be held
only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds twice the
number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary election plus
candidates that were not required to run in the primary are to be placed on the
November ballot. (Ord. 05-03, 5-23-2005)
CHAPTER 8
PURCHASING
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Finance Officer
1-8-3: Requisitions And Estimates
1-8-4: Purchase Approval Requirements
1-8-5: Quotation Requirements
1-8-6: Exemptions To Competitive Bidding Requirements
1-8-7: Prohibited Acts And Activities
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms as used in this chapter, or in
the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter, shall have the
following meanings:
ADEQUATE APPROPRIATION BALANCES: Sufficient fund balance which must exist in
the line item appropriation of the account number against which the purchase
order is charged.
BIDDING: Procedure used to solicit quotations on price and delivery from
various prospective suppliers of supplies, equipment and contractual services.
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES: Public works projects and other professional services
such as auditing, architecture, engineering or other consulting services.
ESTIMATES OF REQUIREMENTS: Forecasts of future requirements of supplies,
equipment or contractual services submitted by town departments upon request of
the mayor or his designee.
LOCAL BIDDER: A firm or individual who regularly maintains a place of business
and transacts business in, or maintains an inventory of merchandise for sale
in, or is licensed by or pays sales taxes to, the town.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any item of real or personal property owned by the town.
RESPONSIBLE BID: An offer, submitted by a responsible bidder, to furnish
supplies, equipment or contractual services in conformity with the
specifications, delivery terms, conditions and other requirements included in
the invitation for bids.
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER: A bidder who submits a responsible bid; a bidder who has
furnished, when requested, information and data to prove that his financial
resources, production or service facilities, service reputation and experience
are adequate to make satisfactory delivery of supplies, equipment or
contractual services on which he bids; and a bidder who has not violated or
attempted to violate any provision of this chapter.
SUPPLIES, MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT: Any and all articles or things which shall
be furnished to or used by any town department.
TOWN PURCHASE ORDERS: Official documents used in committing town funds toward
the purchase of supplies, equipment and contractual services.
TOWN REQUISITIONS: Standard forms used by departments providing detailed
information as to quantity, description, estimated price, recommended supplier
and signature authorization for requested purchases. (Ord. 99, 4-5-1994)
1-8-2: FINANCE OFFICER:
The mayor is hereby appointed the finance officer of the town, and is
authorized to exercise the powers conferred upon such finance officer as
specified in Utah Code Annotated, as amended, as follows:
   A.   Authority: The mayor is hereby authorized to:
      1.   Approve any payroll checks prepared for an authorized town employee
hired in accordance with personnel policies established by town ordinance or
resolution. The amount paid to any such authorized employee shall also be in
agreement to a specific salary assigned to such employee pursuant to a salary
schedule adopted by the governing body or a salary amount assigned by ordinance
of the town council.
      2.   Give final approval to all claims submitted for the payment of
routine expenditures, such as utility bills, payroll related expenses, supplies
and materials, which were purchased according to authorized purchasing
procedures established by ordinance or resolution.
      3.   Give final approval to all claims submitted for capital purchases
which were made pursuant to established purchasing procedures, referenced in
the budget document and approved by an appropriation resolution adopted for the
current fiscal year budget.
   B.   Restrictions: The above approval authority delegated to the mayor is
hereby subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No claim may be approved by the mayor which is not within the duly
and legally adopted budget.
      2.   No claim may be approved which was not made in accordance with
personnel and purchasing procedures established by ordinance or resolution.
   C.   Verified Claims: The above authorization shall not prevent the
governing body from approving all or part of a list of verified claims,
including a specific claim in an amount in excess of the stated maximum, where
certified by the finance officer.
   D.   Preaudit Required: The town recorder shall preaudit all claims pursuant
to state statute requirements and shall not disburse any payments without
appropriate approval. Procedures shall be established whereby documented
approval is obtained as authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 99, 4-5-1994)
1-8-3: REQUISITIONS AND ESTIMATES:
All department heads shall file with the town recorder, detailed requisitions
or estimates of their requirements in supplies and contractual services in such
a manner, at such times and for such future periods as the mayor and/or town
council shall prescribe. (Ord. 99, 4-5-1994)
1-8-4: PURCHASE APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purchases up to one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) may be
authorized and must have the approval of the town recorder.
   B.   Purchases of up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) may be
authorized and must have the approval of the mayor.
   C.   Purchases over two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) may be
authorized and must have the approval of the town council. (Ord. 99, 4-5-1994)
1-8-5: QUOTATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specified:
 
Purchases of up to $1,000.00          No competitive price quotations are
                                      required.
                                      Informal price quotations shall be
                                      obtained prior to purchase. It shall be
                                      the responsibility of each department to
                                      obtain said quotations. Quotations shall
                                      be recorded on an "informal competitive
Purchases from $1,000.00 to $2,500.00 price quotation record". One copy of the
                                      quotation record shall remain with the
                                      department purchasing the item and one
                                      copy shall be attached to the purchase
                                      order. At least 3 quotations should be
                                      solicited if possible.
                                      Formal price quotations shall be obtained
                                      prior to purchase. Requests for
                                      quotations shall be submitted to the town
                                      recorder on a "request for quotation"
                                      form 10 working days prior to the order
                                      date. It shall be the responsibility of
                                      the town recorder to obtain formal price
                                      quotations from vendors. The town
Purchases over $2,500.00              recorder shall deliver all quotations and
                                      other pertinent information received from
                                      vendors to the mayor. The mayor will
                                      review the quotations received and select
                                      a vendor, if the quotations received are
                                      within his authorized limits, or he will
                                      review the quotations and instruct that
                                      the item be taken to the town council for
                                      approval.
                                      Formal sealed bids must be obtained prior
                                      to purchase. Requests for formal bids
                                      shall be submitted to the town recorder.
                                      The request must receive town council
                                      approval prior to the town recorder
                                      sending out notice for "formal invitation
                                      to bid". Sealed bids shall be submitted
Purchases over $5,000.00              as designed in the notice with the
                                      statement "bid for (item)" on the
                                      envelope. Bids shall be opened in public
                                      at the time and place stated in the
                                      public notice. A tabulation of all bids
                                      received shall be open for public
                                      inspection during the regular business
                                      hours for a period of not less than 30
                                      days after the bid opening.
 
   B.   Rejection Of Bids: In its discretion, the town council may reject
without cause any/all bids presented, and readvertise for bids pursuant to the
procedure hereinafter prescribed.
   C.   Award Of Contracts: Except as otherwise provided herein, contracts
shall be awarded by the town council to the lowest responsible bidder. In
determining "lowest responsible bidder", in addition to price, the town council
shall consider:
      1.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
      2.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
      3.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
      4.   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
      5.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
      6.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and the ability of the
contract to provide the service;
      7.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
      8.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract.
   D.   Award To Other Than Lowest Bidder: When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared by the town recorder as directed by the mayor
and filed with the other papers relating to the transaction.
   E.   Tie Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, the town council shall
readvertise for bids unless the matter is otherwise resolved without
controversy.
   F.   Performance Bonds: Before entering a contract, the town council shall
have the authority to require a performance bond in such amount as it shall
find necessary to protect the best interests of the town. The form and amount
of said bond shall be described in the notice inviting bids. (Ord. 99, 4-5-
1994)
1-8-6: EXEMPTIONS TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Generally: Contracts which by their nature are not adapted to award by
competitive bidding, such as contracts for additions to and repairs and
maintenance of equipment owned by the town, which may be more efficiently added
to, repaired or maintained by a certain person or firm, contract for equipment
which, by reason or training of the personnel or an inventory of replacement
parts maintained by the town, is compatible with the existing equipment owned
by the town, shall not be subject to the competitive bidding requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   Library Purchases: The purchase of library books, records, tapes,
films, publications, periodicals and subscriptions are specifically exempted
from the requirements of competitive bidding.
   C.   Auction, Closeout, Bankruptcy Sales: If the department head determines
that supplies, materials or equipment can be purchased at any public auction,
closeout sale, bankruptcy sale or similar sale, and if a majority of the town
council at a regular or special meeting concurs in such determination and makes
the finding that a purchase at any such auction or sale will be made at a cost
below the market cost in the community, a contract or contracts may be let, or
the purchase made, without complying with the competitive bidding requirements
of this chapter.
   D.   Emergency Purchases:
      1.   In the case of actual emergency, the head of any department may
purchase directly any supplies whose immediate procurement is essential to
prevent delays in the work of the department which may virtually affect the
life, health or convenience of any employee or citizen of the town.
      2.   The head of the department shall send to the mayor a full written
report of the circumstances of the emergency. The report shall be filed with
the town council as provided above. (Ord. 99, 4-5-1994)
1-8-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Conflicts Of Interest: Elected officials, officers and employees that
own a substantial interest in a business which does or anticipates doing
business with the town must disclose such interest prior to discussion by the
governing body.
   B.   Collusion Among Bidders: Any agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders, in restraint of freedom of competition, by agreement to
bid a fixed price, or otherwise, shall render the bid of such bidders void.
   C.   Advance Disclosures: Any disclosures in advance of the opening of bids,
whether in response to advertising or an informal request for bids, made or
permitted by a member of the town council or a town employee, shall render void
the advertisement or request for bids.
   D.   Gratuities: The acceptance of any gratuity in the form of cash,
merchandise or any other thing of value by an official or employee of the town
from any vendor, contractor or prospective vendor or contractor, shall be cause
for removal or other disciplinary action. (Ord. 99, 4-5-1994)
CHAPTER 9
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Records Access And Management Act Adopted By Reference
1-9-1: RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah government records access and management act, Utah Code
Annotated section 63-2-101 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the town.
Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter
and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 10
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Findings
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Adoption
1-10-4: Impact Fee Calculations
1-10-5: Impact Fees Imposed
1-10-6: Fee Exceptions And Adjustments
1-10-7: Appeal Procedures
1-10-1: FINDINGS:
The town council finds and determines as follows:
   A.   All required notices have been given and public hearings conducted as
required by the impact fee act with respect to the capital facilities plan, the
parks and trails master plan, the impact fee analyses, and this chapter.
   B.   Growth and development activities in Corinne City will create
additional demands on its culinary water system, wastewater system, stormwater
drainage system, roadways, and parks and recreation facilities. The capital
facility improvement requirements which are analyzed in the capital facilities
plan, the parks and trails master plan, and the impact fee analyses are the
direct result of additional facility needs caused by future development
activities. The persons responsible for new growth and development activities
should pay a proportionate share of the costs of Corinne City's culinary water
system, wastewater system, stormwater drainage system, roadways, and parks and
recreation facilities needed to serve new growth and development activity.
   C.   Impact fees are necessary to achieve an equitable allocation of the
costs borne in the past and to be borne in the future, in comparison with the
benefits already received and yet to be received.
   D.   In enacting and approving the impact fee analyses and this chapter, the
town council has taken into consideration, and in certain situations will
consider on a case by case basis in the future, the future capital facilities
needs of Corinne City, the capital financial needs of Corinne City which are
the result of Corinne City's future capital facilities needs, the distribution
of the burden of costs to different properties within Corinne City based on the
use of culinary water, wastewater, stormwater drainage, roadway, and parks and
recreation facilities of Corinne City by such properties, the financial
contribution of those properties and other properties similarly situated in
Corinne City at the time of computation of the required fee and prior to the
enactment hereof, all revenue sources available to Corinne City, and the impact
on future culinary water, wastewater, stormwater drainage, roadway, and parks
and recreation facilities that will be required by new growth and development
activities in Corinne City.
   E.   The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed in order to
carry out the purpose and intent of the town council in establishing a program
of impact fees. (Ord. 09-01, 9-15-2009, eff. 12-15-2009)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as provided below, words and phrases that are defined in the impact fee
act shall have the same meanings in this chapter.
SERVICE AREA: That geographic area designated as study area on the draft future
land use map on page 2 of the capital facilities plan, which is attached as
exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 09-01, 9-15-2009, eff. 12-15-
2009)
1-10-3: ADOPTION:
The town council hereby approves and adopts the impact fee analyses attached as
exhibit C to the ordinance codified herein. Based on the town council's
approval and adoption of the parks and trails master plan, capital facilities
plan, and impact fee analyses, the town council imposes a requirement that
developers install the necessary project improvements as a condition to: a)
connection to Corinne City's current or future culinary water and wastewater
systems and b) delivery of water services from Corinne City. Based on its
approval and adoption of the parks and trails master plan, capital facilities
plan, and impact fee analyses, the town council hereby imposes the impact fees
specified herein and enacts this chapter to require payment of the impact fees
specified herein as a condition of development approval. (Ord. 09-01, 9-15-
2009, eff. 12-15-2009)
1-10-4: IMPACT FEE CALCULATIONS:
   A.   Impact Fees: The impact fees imposed by this chapter shall be facility
impact fees payable in cash, calculated so that new development activity pays
for a fair share of: 1) existing public facilities to the extent of excess
capacity therein and 2) future facilities and improvements. Impact fees shall
be calculated and imposed as provided herein.
   B.   Developer Credits/Developer Reimbursements: A developer may be allowed
a credit against or proportionate reimbursement of impact fees if the developer
dedicates land for a system improvement, builds and dedicates some or all of a
system improvement, or dedicates a public facility that Corinne City and the
developer agree will reduce the need for a system improvement. A credit against
impact fees shall be granted for any dedication of land for, improvement to, or
new construction of any system improvements provided by the developer if the
facilities are system improvements, or are dedicated to the public and offset
the need for an identified system improvement.
   C.   Impact Fee Accounting: Corinne City shall establish a separate interest
bearing ledger account for each type of public facility for which an impact fee
is collected pursuant to this chapter and deposit impact fee receipts in the
appropriate ledger account. Interest earned on each such account shall be
retained in that account.
      1.   Reporting: At the end of each fiscal year, Corinne City shall
prepare a report on each impact fee ledger account established as required
herein generally showing the source and amount of all monies collected, earned
and received by the account and each expenditure from the account. The report
shall also identify impact fee funds by the year in which they were received,
the project from which the funds were collected, the capital projects for which
the funds were budgeted, and the projected schedule for expenditure. The report
shall be in a format approved by the state auditor, certified by the Corinne
City chief financial officer, and transmitted to the state auditor annually.
      2.   Impact Fee Expenditures: Corinne City may expend impact fees covered
by this chapter only for system improvements: a) identified in the capital
facilities plan; and b) for the specific public facility type for which the fee
was collected.
      3.   Time Of Expenditure: Impact fees collected pursuant to this chapter
are to be expended, dedicated or encumbered for a permissible use within six
(6) years of receipt by Corinne City, unless the town council directs
otherwise. For purposes of this calculation, first funds received shall be
deemed to be the first funds expended.
      4.   Extension Of Time: Corinne City may hold previously dedicated or
unencumbered fees for longer than six (6) years if it identifies in writing,
before the expiration of the six (6) year period: a) an extraordinary and
compelling reason why the fees should be held longer than six (6) years; and b)
an absolute date by which the fees will be expended.
   D.   Refunds: Corinne City shall refund any impact fees paid by a developer,
plus interest actually earned when: 1) the developer does not proceed with the
building activity and files a written request for a refund; 2) the fees have
not been spent or encumbered; and 3) no impact has resulted.
   E.   Additional Fees And Costs: The impact fees authorized hereby are
separate from and in addition to user fees and other charges lawfully imposed
by Corinne City for new development, such as engineering and inspection fees,
building permit fees, review fees, hookup fees, fees for project improvements,
and other fees and costs that may not be included as itemized component parts
of any impact fee.
   F.   Fees Effective At Time Of Payment: Unless Corinne City is otherwise
bound by a contractual requirement, the impact fee shall be determined from the
impact fee schedule in effect at the time of payment in accordance with the
provisions of section
1-10-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-01, 9-15-2009, eff. 12-15-2009)
1-10-5: IMPACT FEES IMPOSED:
Impact fees are hereby imposed as a condition of the issuance of a building
permit by Corinne City for any development activity which creates additional
demand and need for public facilities in order to mitigate the impact of such
development on public facilities. Impact fees shall be paid at the time of the
building permit application and no building permit shall be issued unless or
until the impact fees required by this chapter have been paid. The fees imposed
are as follows:
   CULINARY WATER IMPACT FEE
   (Per Connection Based On Meter Size)
 
           Fee Through Fee From July Fee From July Fee From July Fee From July
Meter Size June 30,    1, 2010 To    1, 2011 To    1, 2012 To    1, 2013
In Inches  2010        June 30, 2011 June 30, 2012 June 30, 2013 To June 30,
                                                                 2014
0.75       $ 2,720.00  $ 2,773.00    $ 2,834.00    $ 2,939.00    $ 3,056.00
1.00       4,542.00    4,631.00      4,733.00      4,908.00      5,104.00
1.50       9,058.00    9,234.00      9,437.00      9,787.00      10,176.00
2.00       14,498.00   14,780.00     15,105.00     15,665.00     16,288.00
 
   WASTEWATER IMPACT FEE
   (Per Connection Based On Pipe Size)
 
             Fee Through Fee From     Fee From July Fee From July Fee From July
Pipe Size In June 30,    July 1, 2010 1, 2011 To    1, 2012 To    1, 2013 To
Inches       2010        To June 30,  June 30, 2012 June 30, 2013 June 30, 2014
                         2011
4.00         $ 2,117.00  $ 2,129.00   $ 2,141.00    $ 2,154.00    $ 2,168.00
6.00         4,763.00    4,790.00     4,817.00      4,847.00      4,878.00
8.00         8,468.00    8,516.00     8,564.00      8,616.00      8,672.00
12.00        19,053.00   19,161.00    19,269.00     19,386.00     19,512.00
 
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE IMPACT FEE
   (Per Acre To Be Developed)
 Impact Fee Per Acre Of Development (Through June 30, 2014)
                                         Impact Fee Per Acre Of Development
                                         (Through June 30, 2014)
Residential development:                  
High density (4 to 6 units per acre)     $1,148.61
Low density (1 to 2 units per acre and 1 843.86
unit per 5 acres)
                                         
Nonresidential development:               
Commercial                               1,859.70
Industrial                               1,554.94
 
   PARKS AND RECREATION IMPACT FEE
   (Per Household Within The Development)
 
The parks and recreation impact fee through June 30, 2014, is $685.00 per
household.
 
This impact fee was calculated for single-family detached homes. If there is
another type of development proposed in Corinne City that can be demonstrated
to expect to have a different household size (e.g., apartment, condominium/
townhouse, or mobile home development), then the impact fee may be adjusted for
that development by the town council, as provided in subsection 1-10-6B of this
chapter. The impact fee may be adjusted using the following formula, as
described in the impact fee analyses:
 
Cost per person ($209.00) x average household size in development = Cost per
household
Property tax credit (0.48%) x cost per household = Adjustment factor
Cost per household - adjustment factor = Impact fee
 
   ROADWAYS IMPACT FEE
   (Per Residential Unit Developed And Per 1,000 Square Feet
   Of Nonresidential Use Within The Development)
   Impact Fee (Through June 30, 2014)
                                       Impact Fee (Through June 30, 2014)
Residential development:                        
 Single-family detached              $ 945.21  per house
 Apartment                           654.83    per dwelling unit
 Condominium/townhouse               578.78    per dwelling unit
 Mobile home                         475.07    per home
                                                
Nonresidential development:                     
 Retail                              5,666.00  per 1,000 square feet
 Office                              2,238.00  per 1,000 square feet
 Light industrial                    688.00    per 1,000 square feet
 Warehousing                         490.00    per 1,000 square feet
 Education                           1,249.00  per 1,000 square feet
 Hotel                               881.00    per room
 Fast food services                  8,884.00  per 1,000 square feet
 Gas station with convenience store  16,077.00 per 1,000 square feet
 Church                              900.00    per 1,000 square feet
 
(Ord. 09-01, 9-15-2009, eff. 12-15-2009)
1-10-6: FEE EXCEPTIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Waiver For Public Purpose: The town council may, on a project by
project basis, authorize exceptions or adjustments to the then impact fee rate
structure for those projects the town council determines to be of such benefit
to the community as a whole to justify the exception or adjustment. Such
projects may include low income housing.
   B.   Adjustments: The town council may adjust impact fees imposed pursuant
to this chapter as necessary in order to respond to unusual circumstances in
specific areas, ensure that impact fees are imposed fairly, and permit the
adjustments of the amount of the impact fees based upon studies and data
submitted by an applicant in order to ensure that the impact fee represents the
proportionate share of the cost of providing such public facilities which are
reasonably related to and necessary in order to provide the services in
question to anticipate future growth and development activities. The town
council may also adjust impact fees to respond to a request for a prompt and
individualized impact fee review for the development activity of an agency of
the state of Utah, a school district, or charter school. (Ord. 09-01, 9-15-
2009, eff. 12-15-2009)
1-10-7: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: The appeal procedures set forth herein apply both to
challenges to the legality of impact fees of Corinne City and to the
interpretation and/or application of those fees.
   B.   Declaratory Judgment Action: Any person or entity residing in or owning
property within Corinne City, and any organization, association or corporation
representing the interests of persons or entities owning property within
Corinne City may file a declaratory judgment action challenging the validity of
an impact fee only after having first exhausted their administrative remedies
as provided in this section.
   C.   Request For Information Concerning The Fee: Any person or entity
required to pay or who has paid an impact fee under this chapter may file a
written request for information concerning the fee (the "request for
information") with Corinne City. Corinne City will provide the person or entity
with Corinne City's impact fee analyses, the capital facilities plan, and other
relevant information relating to the impact fee within fourteen (14) days after
receipt of the request for information.
   D.   Appeal To Corinne City Before Payment Of The Impact Fee: Any affected
or potentially affected person or entity who wishes to challenge an impact fee
under this chapter prior to payment thereof shall file a written request for
information concerning the fee and proceed under Corinne City's appeal
procedures as set forth in subsection F of this section.
   E.   Appeal To Corinne City After Payment Of The Impact Fee; Statute Of
Limitations For Failure To File:
      1.   Any person or entity that has paid an impact fee under this chapter
and wishes to challenge the fee shall file a notice of appeal with the Corinne
City town clerk/recorder that contains the following:
         a.   The appellant's name, mailing address and daytime phone number;
         b.   A copy of the written request for information and a brief summary
of the grounds for appeal; and
         c.   The relief sought.
      2.   The notice of appeal shall be filed as provided below:
         a.   If the appellant is challenging compliance with the notice
requirements of title 11, chapter 36 of the impact fee act with respect to the
imposition of the impact fee, the notice of appeal must be filed within thirty
(30) days after payment of the impact fee;
         b.   If the appellant is challenging compliance with other, nonnotice,
procedural requirements of title 11, chapter 36 of the impact fee act with
respect to the imposition of the impact fee, the notice of appeal must be filed
within one hundred eighty (180) days after payment of the impact fee; and
         c.   If the appellant is challenging the impact fee, the notice of
appeal must be filed within one year after payment of the impact fee.
   F.   Appeals To Corinne City: Any developer, landowner or affected party
desiring to challenge the legality of any impact fee under this chapter shall
appeal directly to Corinne City by filing a notice of appeal with Corinne City
either prior to payment of the impact fee but within thirty (30) days of the
decision or action to which the appeal relates or after payment of the impact
fee and within the applicable time period set forth in subsection E of this
section. If a notice of appeal is not filed with the Corinne City town clerk/
recorder within the applicable time period set forth above, the person or
entity is barred from proceeding with an administrative appeal to Corinne City.
      1.   Hearing: An informal hearing will be held not sooner than five (5)
days nor more than twenty five (25) days after the written notice of appeal is
filed.
      2.   Decision: After the conclusion of the informal hearing, the mayor
shall affirm, reverse, or take action with respect to the challenge or appeal
as the mayor deems appropriate. The decision of the mayor will be issued within
thirty (30) days after the date the written notice of appeal was filed. In
light of the statutorily mandated time restriction, Corinne City shall not be
required to provide more than three (3) working days' prior notice of the time,
date, and location of the informal hearing and the inconvenience of the hearing
to the challenging party shall not serve as a basis of appeal of Corinne City's
final determination.
   G.   Denial Due To Passage Of Time: Should Corinne City, for any reason,
fail to issue a final decision on a written challenge to an impact fee, its
calculation or application, within thirty (30) days after the filing of the
notice of appeal, the challenge shall be deemed to have been denied and any
affected party to the proceedings may seek appropriate judicial relief from
such denial.
   H.   Judicial Review: Any party to the administrative action who is
adversely affected by Corinne City's final decision must petition the district
court for a review of the decision within thirty (30) days of Corinne City's
final decision upholding an impact fee, its calculation or application, or
within sixty (60) days after the written challenge to the impact fee, its
calculation or application, was filed with Corinne City, whichever is earlier.
After having been served with a copy of the pleadings initiating the court
review, Corinne City shall submit to the court the record of the proceedings
before Corinne City, including minutes, and if available, a true and correct
transcript of any proceedings. (Ord. 09-01, 9-15-2009, eff. 12-15-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
CULINARY WATER COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created; Compensation
2-1-2: Terms Of Office
2-1-3: Charter
2-1-4: Organization Of Committee And Member Responsibilities
2-1-5: Powers And Duties Generally
2-1-1: CREATED; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created a Corinne City culinary water committee, to be composed
of four (4) members, appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the town
council. Members of the water committee shall serve without compensation,
except for reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties as members
of the committee. Members of the town council may be appointed to the culinary
water committee. (Ord. 00-01, 2-1-2000; amd. 2007 Code)
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The terms of the water committee shall be staggered as follows: the term of the
first members shall be that one of the three (3) member's term shall expire
after the third year of service and thereupon each consecutive member's term
shall expire the following fourth and fifth year. Thereafter each member of the
water committee shall be appointed to serve for a term of five (5) years. Term
(s) of the water committee shall begin on or before January 1 of each year. The
town council may remove any member of the water committee for cause and after a
public hearing, if one is requested. Vacancies shall be promptly filled in the
same manner as the original appointment for the remainder of the unexpired
term. The term for the council member shall be called yearly, upon the mayor
and town council discretion. (Ord. 00-01, 2-1-2000)
2-1-3: CHARTER:
   A.   It is the charter of the culinary water committee to advise the town
council and planning and zoning commission regarding the following:
      1.   Financial, technical and operational improvements for the town
culinary water system.
      2.   Areas of future needs and development.
   B.   This is a volunteer organization, which is to provide long term
oversight into the development of the town culinary water system. (Ord. 00-01,
2-1-2000)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION OF COMMITTEE AND MEMBER RESPONSIBILITIES:
The water committee shall consist of four (4) members, the financial advisor,
the technical advisor, the operational advisor and the council member position.
   A.   Financial Advisor: The financial advisor is responsible for providing
input to the director of economic development as to the amount of funding
required for a given project. He will assist the director in obtaining these
funds, and keep records of where, when and how funds were spent.
   B.   Technical Advisor: The technical advisor is responsible for working
with the water operator and rural water association to develop the procedures
and documentation necessary to meet the federal and state water system
guidelines. He will work with the town engineer to define and prepare the
engineering requirements and documentation necessary for future system upgrades
and expansions.
   C.   Operations Advisor: The operations advisor is responsible for working
with the water system operator. The operations advisor is to keep current on
the present state of the water system and keep track and make recommendations
to areas where upgrades are necessary to the system. Additionally, when
upgrades and expansions are necessary, the operations advisor will help
recommend qualified contractors and assist the water system operator in
overseeing that the construction is performed per contract requirements.
   D.   Council Member: The council member is responsible to be the liaison
between the town council and the water committee in bringing his knowledge of
the council plans to the forefront of the water committee's recommendations in
the areas that are of the most importance for the well being of the citizens in
the town. (Ord. 00-01, 2-1-2000)
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
The culinary water committee shall have all the powers and duties explicitly or
impliedly given a culinary water committee as stated herein. (Ord. 00-01, 2-1-
2000)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Title
3-1A-2: Purpose
3-1A-3: Effective Date
3-1A-4: Use Tax Imposed
3-1A-5: Penalty
3-1A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF CORINNE CITY.
(Ord. 94, 2-6-1990)
3-1A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of Tax: The forty eighth session of the Utah legislature
authorized the counties and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use
tax ordinances imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   Tax Established: It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales
and use tax of the town to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 90-125, 3-12-
1990)
3-1A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 94, 2-6-1990)
3-1A-4: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the town at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the town of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purposes of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the
state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities are rendered, but the place of
sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the town
shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate
formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   B.   Adoption Of State Codes; Provisions:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, insofar as
they relate to sales taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof,
are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth
herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this town shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the town for the word
"state" when the word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission,
or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of the town be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the town or any
agency thereof rather than by or against the state tax commission in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation of this article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
94, 2-6-1990)
3-1A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 94, 2-6-1990; amd. 2007 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-1B-1: Intent
3-1B-2: Definitions
3-1B-3: Tax Imposed
3-1B-4: Exemptions From Tax
3-1B-5: No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credit For Franchise Fees
3-1B-6: Tax Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
3-1B-7: State Statutes Incorporated
3-1B-8: No Additional License Or Reporting Requirements
3-1B-9: Effective Date
3-1B-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of Corinne City to provide both a stable revenue source and
create a more competitive environment for the energy industry by adopting a
municipal energy sales and use tax, pursuant to, and in conformance with, Utah
Code Annotated section 10-1-301 et seq., "the municipal energy sales and use
tax act". (Per correspondence dated 10-23-2008)
3-1B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: A. A fee:
1. Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
2. That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   1. A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
2. Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE: A. The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for
sale or use in the town and includes:
1. The value of the energy itself; and
2. Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service charges or
other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable form to
each class of customer in the town.
   B.   "Delivered value" does not include the amount of a tax paid under part
1 or part 2 of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the state tax commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX: A. A franchise tax;
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
joint venture, association, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, syndicate, this state, any country, town, municipality, district, or
other local governmental entity of the state, or any group or combination
acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in the town for any purpose
except sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE: A. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   "Use" does not include the sale, display, or demonstration of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord.
061703, 6-17-2003)
3-1B-3: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made with the town equaling four percent
(4%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax
shall be known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   B.   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by the town authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
part 2, the local sales and use tax act 1 . (Ord. 061703, 6-17-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See article A of this chapter.
3-1B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b),
notwithstanding an exemption granted by Utah Code Annotated section 59-1-104.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel, and special fuels
subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States constitution, or the Utah constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4.   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
town.
   C.   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt
from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this article, provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3; and
      2.   The town is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this article, if the
tax due under this article exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(Ord. 061703, 6-17-2003)
3-1B-5: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   This article shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the town and energy suppliers.
   B.   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the town
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 2003;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 061703, 6-17-
2003)
3-1B-6: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   On or before the effective date hereof, the town shall contract with
the state tax commission to perform all functions incident to the
administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and use tax, in
accordance with this article. This contract may be a supplement to the existing
contract with the commission to administer and collect the local sales and use
tax, in accordance with this article. The mayor, with the approval of the town
council, is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with the state tax
commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and operation
of the municipal energy sales and use tax ordinance enacted by this article.
   B.   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the town monthly if:
      1.   The town is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a. The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the town may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax, less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-
307(4). (Ord. 061703, 6-17-2003)
3-1B-7: STATE STATUTES INCORPORATED:
   A.   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 1, part 3,
municipal energy sales and use tax act, as well as this article, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, and
in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to
sales and use taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, and
excepting for the amount of the sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this article as if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as
the "taxing agency", the name of the town shall be substituted, insofar as is
necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as Utah Code Annotated title
10, chapter 1, part 3, as amended. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed
to require substitution of the name Corinne City for the word "state" when that
word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission, or of the
constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of Corinne City be substituted for
that of the state in any section when the result of such a substitution would
require action to be taken by or against the town or any agency thereof, rather
than by or against the state tax commission in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this article.
   C.   Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part
1, as amended, which would be applicable to the town for the purposes of
carrying out this article are hereby incorporated herein by reference and shall
be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute. (Ord.
061703, 6-17-2003)
3-1B-8: NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this chapter is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord.
061703, 6-17-2003)
3-1B-9: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The municipal energy sales and use tax shall be levied beginning one minute
after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. on July 1, 2003. (Ord. 061703, 6-17-2003)
CHAPTER 2
RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: No Other City License Or Approval Required
3-2-3: Definitions
3-2-4: Exemptions From Chapter
3-2-5: Solicitation Prohibited
3-2-6: Registration Of Solicitors
3-2-7: Application Form
3-2-8: Written Disclosures
3-2-9: When Registration Begins
3-2-10: Issuance Of Certificates
3-2-11: Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
3-2-12: Maintenance Of Registry
3-2-13: Nontransferability Of Certificates
3-2-14: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration
3-2-15: Appeal
3-2-16: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
3-2-17: "No Solicitation" Notice
3-2-18: Duties Of Solicitors
3-2-19: Time Of Day Restrictions
3-2-20: Buyer's Right To Cancel
3-2-21: Penalties
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Residents of Corinne City have an inalienable interest in their
personal safety, well being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their
ability to provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief,
political or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in
commerce. Corinne City has a substantial interest in protecting the well being,
tranquility, personal safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the
ability to protect citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property.
Corinne City also has a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud
or otherwise unfair consumer sales practices as well as criminal activity.
   B.   There must be a balance between these substantial interests of Corinne
City and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the
rights of those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city
officials derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens
regarding door to door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement
officers and those affected by door to door canvassing and solicitation, as
well as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional
protections afforded and denied persons seeking to engage in door to door
solicitation, the city adopts this chapter to promote the city's substantial
interests in:
      1.   Respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their
residences;
      2.   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
      3.   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
      4.   Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
   C.   Corinne City finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth
in this chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect Corinne City's
interests referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of
those regulated. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-2: NO OTHER CITY LICENSE OR APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or registration from Corinne
City to engage in door to door solicitation.
   B.   Any business licensed by Corinne City under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors, or agents for door to door
solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the
business, shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate,
unless otherwise exempt from registration.
   C.   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or
registration from Corinne City, provided they do not establish a temporary or
fixed place of business in the city.
   D.   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other
requirement of federal, state, or other local government law regarding any
license, permit, or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ADVOCATING: Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities.
APPEALS OFFICER: The city council or designee of Corinne City responsible for
receiving the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial or
suspension of a certificate and issuing a decision as required by this chapter.
APPELLANT: The person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
APPLICANT: An individual who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and not a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door to door solicitation.
APPLICATION FORM: A standardized form provided by Corinne City to an applicant
to be completed and submitted as part of registration.
BCI: An original or copy, dated no older than one hundred eighty (180) days
prior to the date of the application, of either: a) a Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification verified criminal history report
personal to the applicant; or b) verification by the Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification that no criminal history rising to the
level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
BUSINESS: A commercial enterprise licensed by Corinne City as a person or
entity under this title, having a fixed or temporary physical location within
the city.
CERTIFICATE: A temporary, annual, or renewal certificate permitting door to
door solicitation in the city applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES: Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a charitable organization.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Includes any person, joint venture, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation, association, group, or other entity:
   A.   That is:
1. A benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic, humane,
patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy, public
health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization;
2. For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter
fraternal association; or
3. Established for any charitable purpose; and
   B.   That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the internal revenue
code of 1986 as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
   C.   Charitable organization includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or
similar affiliate or any person soliciting contributions within the state for a
charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the
city or state of Utah 1 .
COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI, two (2)
copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish
proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no
contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
1) felony homicide, 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a
minor, 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or 4) sexual
assault of any kind;
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for: 1) felony homicide, 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or
exploiting a minor, 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or 4)
sexual assault of any kind;
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison within the past five (5) years;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: 1) moral
turpitude, or 2) violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   F.   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that: 1) the
applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor
was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)
(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19);
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
   H.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction; or
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to engage
in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a
competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
ENTITY: Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other lawful entity, organization, society or association.
FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge.
FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment that would be recognized under state law
as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables
of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided, or
sold.
HOME SOLICITATION SALE: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services
by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation, regardless
of:
   A.   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   B.   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   C.   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor,
peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
LICENSING OFFICER: The city employee(s) or agent(s) responsible for receiving
from an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either
granting, suspending, or denying the applicant's certificate.
NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salespersons", "No Trespassing", or words of
similar import.
POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against, or
in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current certificate by
Corinne City.
REGISTRATION: The process used by the city licensing officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted, or suspended.
RELIGIOUS BELIEF: Any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption
or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless of whether or
not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or public or
private entity.
RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that is
occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of Corinne
City, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights of
way.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent individual
in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be
made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service
(s) that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under
any applicable federal, state, or local law.
SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
SOLICITING OR SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications;
   C.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity;
   D.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services;
   E.   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home
solicitation sale;
   F.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: A person(s) engaged in door to door solicitation.
SUBMITTED IN WRITING: The information for an appeal of a denial or suspension
of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to Corinne City
offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery confirmation
mail, facsimile, or hand delivery.
SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written, or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by Corinne City;
   B.   By any of the following:
1. A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or other
city employees with publicly available identification of their name, address,
and any other reliable means of contact;
2. City law enforcement or licensing officer; or
3. Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level of
government;
   C.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
1. Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying status of
a registered solicitor;
2. Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a disqualifying
status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying status;
3. Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has engaged in
repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the registered
solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
4. Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor creates
exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or welfare of any
individuals or entities within the city.
WAIVER: The written form provided to applicant by Corinne City wherein
applicant agrees that the city may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background
check on the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which
contains applicant's notarized signature. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. Charitable solicitation act UCA § 13-22-2(1)(a), (b).
3-2-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER:
The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
   A.   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual
prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
   B.   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
state of Utah permits them to engage in door to door solicitation to offer
goods or services to an occupant of the residence;
   C.   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made
order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a previously
made request by a competent individual;
   D.   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief, or political position regardless of
whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with
or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
and
   E.   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and
prohibitions outlined in sections
3-2-17,
3-2-18 and
3-2-19 of this chapter while advocating or soliciting. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-5: SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within Corinne City by solicitors, for the purpose of home
solicitation sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is
punishable as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-6: REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS:
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in
door to door solicitation within Corinne City, prior to doing so, shall submit
a completed application to the licensing officer and obtain a certificate.
(Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-7: APPLICATION FORM:
The licensing officer shall provide a standard application form for use for the
registration of solicitors. Upon request to the licensing officer, or as
otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail, or
facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require
disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information,
documentation, and fee:
   A.   Review Of Written Disclosures: An affirmation that the applicant has
received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter.
   B.   Contact Information:
      1.   Applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former names
or aliases used during the last ten (10) years;
      2.   Applicant's telephone number, home address and mailing address, if
different;
      3.   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity; and
      4.   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent.
   C.   Proof Of Identity: An in person verification by the licensing officer
of the applicant's true identity by use of any of the following which bear a
photograph of said applicant:
      1.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
      2.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      3.   A valid identification card issued by any state;
      4.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   D.   Proof Of Registration With Department Of Commerce: The applicant shall
provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity,
has registered with the Utah state department of commerce.
   E.   Special Events Sales Tax Number: The applicant shall provide a special
events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person
or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.
   F.   Marketing Information:
      1.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names;
      2.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   G.   BCI Background Check: The applicant shall provide:
      1.   An original or a copy of a "BCI" background check as defined in
section
3-2-3 of this chapter; and
      2.   A signed copy of a waiver whereby applicant agrees to allow Corinne
City to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on applicant for
purposes of enforcement of this chapter 1 .
   H.   Responses To Questions Regarding "Disqualifying Status": The applicant
shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the
application form:
      1.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of: a) felony homicide,
b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor, c) the sale or
distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual assault of any kind;
      2.   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for: a) felony homicide, b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting
a minor, c) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual
assault of any kind;
      3.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten (10) years;
      4.   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison
within the past five (5) years;
      5.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five (5) years involving a crime of: a) moral turpitude, or b) violent
or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
      6.   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant within
the last five (5) years indicating that: a) the applicant had either engaged in
fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or b) that a debt of the applicant was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)(4),
(a)(6), or (a)(19);
      7.   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest
or subject to a tracking device;
      8.   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction; or
      9.   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   I.   Fee: The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by
Corinne City, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the
application and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge.
   J.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See UCA § 53-10-108(1)(b).
3-2-8: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the
applicant of the following:
   A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes Corinne City
to verify information submitted with the completed application including:
      1.   The applicant's address;
      2.   The applicant's and/or responsible person or entity's state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any;
      3.   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity;
   B.   Corinne City may consult any publicly available sources for information
on the applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments;
   C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed;
   D.   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application;
   E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application;
   F.   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection;
   G.   Corinne City will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
certificate is denied, granted, or renewed;
   H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter;
   I.   That a request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied
the same business day that a completed application is submitted. (Ord. 08-05,
10-20-2008)
3-2-9: WHEN REGISTRATION BEGINS:
The licensing officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the licensing
officer verifies the applicant's identity. A copy of the identification may be
retained by the licensing officer. If an original BCI background check is
submitted by the applicant, the licensing officer shall make a copy of the BCI
and return the original to the applicant. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-10: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES:
The licensing officer shall review the completed application submitted by the
applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   A.   Temporary Certificate:
      1.   A temporary certificate shall issue allowing the applicant to
immediately begin door to door solicitation upon the following conditions:
         a.   Applicant's submission of a completed application;
         b.   Applicant's submission of the required fee;
         c.   Applicant establishes proof of identity;
         d.   The applicant's representations on the application form do not
affirmatively show a disqualifying status;
         e.   The BCI does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and
         f.   The applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by
Corinne City, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   A temporary certificate will automatically expire after twenty five
(25) calendar days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual
certificate, whichever period is shorter.
   B.   Annual Certificate: Within twenty five (25) calendar days of the
issuance of a temporary certificate Corinne City shall:
      1.   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including, but not limited to, those disclosed with the application form.
      2.   Issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or
entity, if any, that the applicant either:
         a.   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or
         b.   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in
section
3-2-14 of this chapter.
   C.   Renewal Certificate: An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual
certificate that is not suspended, revoked, or expired may be renewed upon the
request of the registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed
application and payment of the fee, unless any of the conditions for the
denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate are present as set forth in
section
3-2-14 of this chapter, or a disqualifying status is present. (Ord. 08-05, 10-
20-2008)
3-2-11: FORM OF CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   Certificate Form: Should the licensing officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the license officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in Corinne City.
   B.   Identification Badge: With both the temporary and annual certificates,
Corinne City shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of Corinne City and shall contain:
1) the name of the registered solicitor; 2) address and phone number of the
registered solicitor, or the name, address, and phone number of the responsible
person or entity is provided; 3) a recent photograph of the registered
solicitor; and 4) the date on which the certificate expires. (Ord. 08-05, 10-
20-2008)
3-2-12: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or
written denial issued by Corinne City. The applicant's BCI background check
shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection. The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the city's law
enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied, and those issued
a certificate. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES:
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list
the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different: a) goods or services; or b)
responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the licensing
officer. A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the
balance of time remaining on the solicitor's previous certificate before the
amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered
solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge
from the city, after payment of the fee for the identification badge. (Ord. 08-
05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Denial: Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Denial of temporary certificate:
         a.   The application form is not complete;
         b.   The applicant fails to: 1) establish proof of identity, 2)
provide a BCI or 3) pay the fees;
         c.   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant has
a disqualifying status; or
         d.   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by Corinne
City, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   Denial of annual certificate:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant at the time of the
granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application, Corinne City has
received a substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the
applicant;
         e.   Since the submission of the application, Corinne City or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal,
state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying
status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523
(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
      3.   Denial of annual certificate renewal:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is
subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, Corinne City has received a substantiated report regarding the
past or present conduct of the solicitor;
         e.   Corinne City or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523
(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation: Corinne City shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occurs.
   C.   Notice Of Denial Or Suspension: Upon determination of the licensing
officer to deny an applicant's completed application or to suspend a registered
solicitor's certificate, Corinne City shall cause written notice to be sent to
the applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed
application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by applicant upon one business
day's notice to Corinne City, and the date upon which the denial or suspension
of the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant
or registered solicitor shall have ten (10) business days from the receipt of
the notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial or suspension
of the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two (2) calendar days from
the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of exigent
circumstances outlined in subsection C4 of the definition of "substantiated
report" in section
3-2-3 of this chapter, in which case, the suspension is effective immediately.
The denial or suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is
rescinded, overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to
equity or law. Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically
results in its revocation. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-15: APPEAL:
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or
suspended shall have the right to appeal to the city council or its designee.
Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or
entity, or legal counsel for either who: a) documents the relationship with the
applicant or responsible person or entity, or b) is licensed or authorized by
the state of Utah to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency relationship.
The following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the city recorder with a
copy to the license officer within ten (10) business days of the decision from
which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in detail the nature of
the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for appeal.
   B.   Upon request of the applicant or registered solicitor, within one
business day, Corinne City will make available any information upon which it
relied in making the determination to either deny or suspend the certificate.
   C.   The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written information
submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing officer,
any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the basis
for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information supplied
by Corinne City, applicant or registered solicitor. Any additional information
submitted by any party to the appeal to the appeals officer shall be
simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three (3) business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals
officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party.
   D.   The appeals officer will render a decision no later than fifteen (15)
calendar days from the date the appeal was taken, unless an extension of time
is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to the appeal
submits rebuttal information as allowed in subsection C of this section, the
fifteen (15) calendar days shall be extended to include the additional three
(3) days for rebuttal.
      1.   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the
appeals officer if upon review of the written appeal and information submitted,
the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material mistake of
law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant or registered solicitor's
certificate.
      2.   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the
licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant
or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be
affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is
revoked.
      3.   The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
   E.   After the ruling of the appeals officer, the applicant or solicitor is
deemed to have exhausted all administrative remedies with Corinne City.
   F.   Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the applicant's,
solicitor's, or city's right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-16: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face to
face solicitation: 1) the name of the solicitor; 2) the name and address of the
entity with whom the solicitor is associated; and 3) the purpose of the
solicitor's contact with the person and/or competent individual. This
requirement may be satisfied through the use of the badge and an informational
flyer.
   C.   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the
granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement by Corinne
City of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor. (Ord.
08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-17: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation" sign which shall be posted on or
near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence
for the presence of any such notice.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are
exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 08-
05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-18: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any "No Soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "No
Solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted such solicitor shall
desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall
immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of
registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a "No
Solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in advocating, a home solicitation sale, door to door
soliciting, or soliciting.
   C.   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   D.   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an occupant of a residence or
dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   E.   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with, or touch another person without the person's consent.
   F.   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   G.   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor.
   H.   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures. (Ord. 08-05,
10-20-2008)
3-2-19: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Mountain Time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the
resident to do so. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-20: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by section 70C-5-103, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, or a current version thereof or any state or federal law
modifying or amending such provision. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
3-2-21: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence of not to exceed six (6)
months. (Ord. 08-05, 10-20-2008)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Assessor And Collector
3-3-3: Business License Required; Penalty
3-3-4: Application For License
3-3-5: License Fee Levied
3-3-6: Payment Dates
3-3-7: Certificate Of License
3-3-8: Transfer Of License Prohibited
3-3-9: Branch Establishments
3-3-10: Joint Business Licenses
3-3-11: Reciprocal Recognition; Delivery Of Goods
3-3-12: Exemptions To License
3-3-13: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title:
BUSINESS: Includes all activities engaged in within the town carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees rendering
service to employers shall not be included in the term "business", unless
otherwise specifically provided.
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the town,
including a home or other place of lodging if the same is held out by
advertisements, listings or otherwise as the establishment or place of
operation of a person engaging in the business of selling tangible, personal
property at either retail or wholesale, or both, in the town.
EMPLOYEE: The operator or manager of a place of business and any persons
employed in the operation of said place of business in any capacity and also
any salesperson, agent or independent contractor engaged in the operation of
the place of business in any capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible
personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
property and the rendering of personal services for others for a consideration
by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or
other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an employee to his
employer under any contract of personal employment.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the town from which business activity is conducted or
transacted.
WHOLESALE: A sale of tangible personal property by wholesalers to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers for resale, and does not
include a sale by wholesalers or retailers to users or consumers not for
resale, except as otherwise specified.
WHOLESALER: A person doing a regularly organized wholesale or jobbing business
and selling to retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, for the
purpose of resale. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-2: LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
The town recorder is designated and appointed as ex officio assessor of license
fees for the town. Upon receipt of any application for a license, the town
recorder shall assess the amount due thereon and shall collect all license fees
based upon the rate established by resolution. They shall enforce all
provisions of this title, and shall cause to be filed complaints against all
persons violating any of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011,
eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTY:
It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, trade, profession, calling or to operate a vending, pinball or coin
operated machine without first receiving the class or type of license required
by the town. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All applications for license shall include:
      1.   The name of the person desiring a license.
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes.
      4.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number if the business, calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure having such number.
      5.   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
   B.   Coin Operated Machine Or Device: In the event that the license
application relates to a coin operated machine or device, the application shall
identify the machine or device to which it applies and the location thereof.
(Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-5: LICENSE FEE LEVIED:
   A.   Imposed: There is hereby imposed and levied a business license fee as
established by resolution of the town council.
   B.   Interstate Commerce: None of the license fees provided for by this
section shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden on interstate commerce.
In any case, where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for
license to place an undue burden upon such commerce, he may apply to the
license assessor and collector for an adjustment of the fee so that it shall
not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to such commerce. Such
application may be made before, at or within six (6) months after payment of
the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting
testimony, show his method of business and the gross volume or estimated gross
volume of business and such other information as the license assessor and
collector may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden on such commerce. The license assessor and collector shall then
conduct an investigation, comparing applicant's business with other businesses
of like nature and shall make findings of fact from which he shall determine
whether the fee fixed by this section is discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair
as to applicant's business and shall recommend to the town council a license
fee for the applicant in an amount that is nondiscriminatory, reasonable and
fair, and if the town council is satisfied that such license fee is the amount
that the applicant should pay, it shall fix the license fee in such amount. If
the regular license fee has already been paid, the town council shall order a
refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the town council. In
fixing the fee to be charged, the license assessor and collector shall have the
power to base the fee upon a percentage of gross sales, or employees, or may
use any other method which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform
with that assessed on businesses of like nature. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff.
7-1-2011)
3-3-6: PAYMENT DATES:
All license fees shall be due and payable as follows, except as may be
otherwise provided:
   A.   Payable: Annual fees shall be payable before each calendar year, in
advance. The annual license shall date from January 1 of each year and shall
expire on December 31 of each year.
   B.   Due: Annual fees shall be due on January 1 of each calendar year and
shall become delinquent if not paid by February 1 of each year.
   C.   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee is not paid within thirty
(30) days of the due date, a penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the amount of
such license fee shall be added to the original amount thereof. No license
shall be issued until all penalties legally assessed have been paid. (Ord. 11-
01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-7: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All certificates of license shall be signed by the town
recorder, and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name: The name of the person to whom such certificate has been
issued.
      2.   Type: The type of license and the class of such license, if licenses
are divided into classes.
      3.   Term: The term of the license with the commencing date and the date
of its expiration.
      4.   Location: The place where such business, calling, trade or
profession is to be conducted.
   B.   Display:
      1.   Required: Every certificate of license issued under this chapter
shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the
building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may be
easily seen. When such certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed
by the licensee from such place in which it has been posted, and no certificate
of license which is not in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted
upon the wall or any part of any room within the place of business. If the
licensee's business is such that a license cannot be displayed due to the
transient or mobile nature of the business, then the licensee shall carry the
license on his person, ready to be shown upon request by an authorized officer
during all such time or times while the licensee is engaged in or pursuing the
business for which a license was granted.
      2.   Coin Operated Machine: In the event the license is for a coin
operated machine or device, the certificate shall be attached or displayed in
the immediate vicinity of the machine for which it has been issued. (Ord. 11-
01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license granted or issued under any ordinance of the town shall be assigned
or transferred to any other person. It shall not be deemed to authorize any
person other than therein named to do business or to authorize any other
business, calling, trade or profession than is therein named, unless by
permission of the town council. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-9: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in the
town and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such
license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection
with or incident to a business licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed
to be separate places of business or branch establishments. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-
2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-10: JOINT BUSINESS LICENSES:
Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the town, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued one
license which shall specify on its face all such businesses. The license fee to
be paid shall be computed at the highest license fee applicable to any of the
businesses being conducted at such location. The sale of beer or any other
product or service requiring an additional license shall be subject to such
additional licensing requirement. Where two (2) or more persons conduct
separate businesses at the same location, each such person shall obtain a
license for such business and pay the required license fee for such business.
(Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-11: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION; DELIVERY OF GOODS:
   A.   Exceptions: No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle
or equipment in the town when:
      1.   Such vehicle is merely passing through the town.
      2.   Such vehicle is used exclusively in intercity or interstate
commerce.
   B.   Delivery Of Property: No license shall be required by this chapter of
any person whose only business activity in the town is the mere delivery in the
town of property sold by them at a regular place of business maintained by them
outside the town where:
      1.   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the Utah municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
town making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms, as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the town for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
town; and
      4.   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by the said
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C.   Certification Of Section: The town recorder shall, at the request of
any person, certify a copy of this section to any municipality or county of the
state to which a copy has not previously been certified. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-
2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-12: EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSE:
   A.   Exempt Businesses: No license fee shall be imposed under section
3-3-5 of this chapter on any person engaged in business for solely religious,
charitable, eleemosynary or other types of strictly nonprofit purpose which is
tax exempt in such activities under the laws of the United States and the
state, nor shall any license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business
specifically exempted from municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the
United States or the state; nor shall any license fee be imposed upon any
person not maintaining a place of business within the town who has paid a like
or similar license tax or fee to some other taxing unit within the state and
which taxing unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by reciprocal agreement
or otherwise, businesses domiciled in the town and doing business in such
taxing unit.
   B.   Reciprocal Agreements With Other Agencies: The license assessor and
collector may, with approval of the town council, enter into reciprocal
agreements with the proper officials of other taxing units, as may be deemed
equitable and proper in effecting the exemption provided for in subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-3-13: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Unlawful Activities: Any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this code or of any ordinance of the town may be revoked and
any application denied by the town council because of:
      1.   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this code or any ordinance of the town.
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice To Licensee: Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of
an application to renew business license, the licensee or applicant shall be
given a notice which shall state in substance that the town council intends to
revoke the business license or deny the application to renew, together with the
reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the town council
(which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice
is sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-4-1: State Statute Adopted
3-4-2: Application For License And Renewal License
3-4-3: Fees
3-4-4: Referral To Planning Commission
3-4-5: Department Of Health Permit
3-4-6: Alcohol Training And Education
3-4-7: Classifications Of Licenses
3-4-8: Purchase Of Alcoholic Beverages For Resale
3-4-9: Separate License For Each Place Of Business; Display
3-4-10: License Not Transferable
3-4-11: Restrictions
3-4-12: Inspection Of Premises
3-4-13: Disqualification For Conviction Of Crime
3-4-14: Revocation Or Suspension
3-4-15: Penalty
3-4-1: STATE STATUTE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impracticable or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act 1 , as amended, are hereby
adopted by the town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this chapter and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder. (Ord.
11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA title 32B.
3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND RENEWAL LICENSE:
   A.   Verified: All applications for alcoholic beverage licenses authorized
by this chapter shall be verified and shall be filed with the town recorder.
The application must state the applicant's name in full, that they understand
and have read and complied with the requirements, and that they possess the
qualifications specified in the alcoholic beverage control act and this
chapter. If the applicant is a copartnership, the names and addresses of all
partners, and if a corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and
directors, must be stated.
   B.   Subscribed: The application must be subscribed by the applicant who
shall state under oath that the facts therein contained are true.
   C.   Renewal: All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of
existing licenses shall be filed with the town recorder at least thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration date of the then issued license. Any person who
fails to file such application within the time limit shall close his licensed
premises on the expiration date of the then issued license and shall keep the
premises closed for any and all business for the sale of alcoholic beverages
until the date his new license is issued by the town council. (Ord. 11-01, 6-
21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-3: FEES:
   A.   Annual Regulatory License Fee: In addition to any other business
license fee which any person or place of business may be required to pay, there
is hereby imposed on the business location of every person engaged in the sale
or dispensing of alcoholic beverages an annual regulatory license fee. The
amount of the annual regulatory fee will be set by resolution of the town
council, according to the license classification.
   B.   License Fee To Accompany Application: Applications provided for in this
chapter shall be accompanied by the fees provided in this section. The fee
shall be returned to the applicant if the application is denied. (Ord. 11-01,
6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-4: REFERRAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION:
All applications filed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
be referred to the planning commission for inspection and report. The planning
commission shall, when possible, within fourteen (14) days after receiving such
application make a report to the town council of the general reputation and
character of the persons who habitually frequent such place; the nature and
kind of business conducted at such place by the applicant, by any other person,
or by the applicant at any other place; whether the place is or has been
conducted in a lawful, quiet and orderly manner; the nature and kind of
entertainment, if any, at such place; whether gambling is or has been permitted
on the premises or by the applicant at any other place; and the proximity of
such premises to any school, church, park or library. The planning commission
shall also add to such report their recommendation as to whether or not the
application should be granted. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-5: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT:
No license under this chapter shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the applicable health department a permit which
shall show that the premises to be licensed is in a sanitary condition and that
the equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of alcoholic beverages
complies with all the health regulations of the town and the state. (Ord. 11-
01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-6: ALCOHOL TRAINING AND EDUCATION:
   A.   Required: No person shall be granted a license to operate or maintain a
trade, profession or calling, the transaction or carrying on of which requires
a license, within the town, if such person operates an establishment which, as
part of its business, serves alcoholic beverages, as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 32B-1-102(3), to the public for consumption on the premises,
unless that person shall show by certificate granted by the Utah department of
alcoholic beverage control, or by adequate proof of the existence of such
certificate, that each employee of the business engaging in the serving,
selling or furnishing of such alcohol on the premises has completed the alcohol
training and education seminar, as required in Utah Code Annotated section 62A-
15-401, as amended.
   B.   New Employees: Every new employee hired after the licensee has been
licensed in compliance with subsection A of this section, who is required to
complete this seminar, shall complete the seminar within six (6) months of
commencing employment. Violation of this section will result in revocation of
the license granted, unless compliance is completed within two (2) months of
the time that licensee first became aware that such violation occurred. (Ord.
11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-7: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
Retail alcoholic beverage licenses shall be of the following kinds, shall carry
the following privileges, and shall be known as: class A beer, class B beer,
and class C beer and liquor consumption.
   A.   Class A Beer License: Class A beer retail licenses shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer on the premises, in original sealed containers no larger
than two liters (2 l), for consumption off the premises, in accordance with the
ordinances of the town, provided beer is not sold by minors except under the
supervision of a person twenty one (21) years of age or older who is on the
premises.
   B.   Class B Beer License: Class B beer retail licenses shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer in the original containers, and on draft, in containers
no larger than two liters (2 l), for on premises consumption; beer in sealed
containers no larger than two liters (2 l) may be sold for consumption off
premises in accordance with the alcoholic beverage control act, and the
ordinances of the town.
   C.   Class C Beer And Liquor Consumption License: Class C beer and liquor
consumption licenses shall entitle restaurant and private club licensees to
sell liquor and beer for consumption on the premises, and to sell beer in
sealed containers no larger than two liters (2 l), for off premises
consumption, as specifically defined in, and in accordance with the alcoholic
beverage control act. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-8: PURCHASE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR RESALE:
It is a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for any licensee to purchase or acquire, or to have or
possess for the purpose of sale or distribution, any alcoholic beverage except
that which he shall have lawfully purchased, as defined in the alcoholic
beverage control act. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-9: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS; DISPLAY:
A separate license shall be required for each place of sale and the license
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall
refer or for which it shall be issued. All licensees shall comply with the
alcoholic beverage control act and the regulations of the alcoholic beverage
control commission. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-10: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, and if
revoked by the town council, the fee paid by the licensee to the town for the
license shall be forfeited to the town. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-11: RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions shall apply to all establishments within the town
where alcoholic beverages are sold:
   A.   Location Of Business; Exception; Variance:
      1.   No class B or class C license shall be granted to a business located
within six hundred feet (600') of any public or private school, church, public
library, public playground, school playground or park, measured from the
nearest entrance of the outlet by following the shortest route of either
ordinary pedestrian traffic or, where applicable, vehicular travel along public
thoroughfares, whichever is the closer, to the property boundary of the public
or private school, church, public library, public playground, school playground
or park; and within two hundred feet (200') if measured in a straight line from
the nearest entrance of the proposed outlet to the nearest property boundary of
the public or private school, church, public library, public playground, school
playground or park.
      2.   No class A alcoholic beverage licenses applied for after the passage
date hereof, for sale of beer for off premises consumption, shall be granted to
any business located within six hundred feet (600') of any public or private
school or church, measured from the nearest entrance of the outlet by following
the shortest route of either ordinary pedestrian traffic or, where applicable,
vehicular travel along public thoroughfares, whichever is the closer, to the
property boundary of the public or private school or church; and within two
hundred feet (200') if measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of
the proposed outlet to the nearest property boundary of the public or private
school or church.
      3.   If compliance with distance requirements would result in peculiar
and exceptional practical difficulties, or exceptional and undue hardships, a
variance may be required of the town council. Following a public hearing, a
variance may or may not be granted by the town council. Should the town grant a
variance for a class B or C license, final authority regarding state licensure
would require approval of the variance by the alcoholic beverage control
commission.
   B.   Conduct Of Employees And Entertainers: Lewd attire and/or sexually
oriented conduct of employees and entertainers, as explicitly defined in Utah
Code Annotated section 32B-1-504, are prohibited. Furthermore, entertainers are
prohibited in this town from performing unclothed, or in attire, costume or
clothing that exposes to view any portion of the female breast below the top of
the areola or any portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva
or genitals.
   C.   Giving, Selling And Providing Alcoholic Beverages To Specific Persons:
It is unlawful for any person to give, sell, or otherwise provide alcoholic
beverages for consumption to:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
      2.   Any person who is apparently under the influence of intoxicating
alcoholic beverages or products or drugs;
      3.   Any person whom the person furnishing the alcoholic beverage knew or
should have known from the circumstances was under the influence of
intoxicating alcoholic beverages or products or drugs; or
      4.   Any person who is a known interdicted person.
   D.   Business Or Premises Where Gasoline Sold: Only a class A license may be
granted to any person to sell beer at any business or premises where gasoline
for use in motor vehicles is sold.
   E.   Hours Of Alcoholic Beverage Sales: It shall be unlawful to sell or
otherwise furnish or dispose of an alcoholic beverage, whether or not the
premises are open to the public, during the following days and hours, according
to license classification:
      1.   Class A beer license: Beer may not be sold between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
      2.   Class B beer license: Beer may not be sold between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
      3.   Class C beer and liquor consumption license:
         a.   Restaurants: Liquor may not be sold or offered for sale on the
day of any election, until after the polls close, including regular general,
regular primary, special statewide, municipal, special district or school
elections; or on any other day between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon. Beer may not be sold between the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.; and
         b.   Private Clubs: Liquor may not be sold or offered for sale on the
day of any election, until after the polls close, including regular general,
regular primary, special statewide, municipal, special district or school
elections; or on Sundays and any state or federal legal holiday after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and before twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, or on any
other day between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. Beer may not be sold between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M.
   F.   On Premises Consumption After Hours: On premises consumption of
alcoholic beverages may continue for one hour past the time sales cease. Anyone
having a class B beer or class C beer and liquor consumption license, or his
agents or employees, shall close the establishment and remove or cause to be
removed from the premises all patrons, customers, or individuals not employed
on the premises no later than two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
   G.   Unlawful For Patrons To Remain On Premises After Closing: It shall be
unlawful for any class B or class C licensee, or for his agents or employees,
to permit any patron, customer, or individual not employed on the premises to
remain on such premises after the closing time of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
   H.   Illumination Of Premises: Licensed premises shall be kept brightly
illuminated at all times while occupied or open for business; no booth, or
other type of stall, shall be maintained unless all tables, chairs, and
occupants are kept open to full view from the main floor and the entrance of
such licensed premises.
   I.   Advertising: It shall be unlawful to advertise the sale of alcoholic
beverages, except as defined in the alcoholic beverage control act.
   J.   Number Of Alcoholic Beverage Licenses: The total number of businesses
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages in the town shall not exceed:
      1.   An unlimited number of class A licenses.
      2.   Four (4) class B beer licenses.
      3.   Four (4) class C beer and liquor consumption licenses.
   K.   Parks And Cemeteries: No alcoholic beverages shall be allowed, sold or
consumed on or in town parks and cemeteries. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-
2011)
3-4-12: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
   A.   Premises Subject To Inspection: All licensed premises shall be subject
to inspection by any officer, agent, or peace officer of the town or the
alcoholic beverage control commission, or the state board of health, and every
licensee shall, at the request of the board of health furnish to it samples of
alcoholic beverages which he shall have for sale.
   B.   Revocation Of License For Violation: Any license granted pursuant to
this chapter may be revoked on a finding by the town council that the licensee
has had ten (10) days' or more notice from the board of health that the
licensee is violating one or more health ordinances, rules or regulations of
the town or of the Utah division of health and has failed to comply with such
health ordinance, rules or regulations.
   C.   Closing Of Business: The town council may direct the town's law
enforcement agency to close down any business licensed under this chapter where
the board of health has determined that continued operation of the business
presents an imminent danger to the health of the community or persons who may
eat or drink at the business. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-13: DISQUALIFICATION FOR CONVICTION OF CRIME:
No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell alcoholic beverages within
the town if the licensee, a partner, manager, officer, director, managing agent
or shareholder with more than twenty percent (20%) stock has been convicted of:
   A.   A felony under any federal or state law;
   B.   Any violation of any federal or state law or local ordinance concerning
the sale, manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration or
transportation of alcoholic beverages; or
   C.   Any crime involving moral turpitude;
   D.   Nor shall any license to sell alcoholic beverages be granted to anyone
who has violated any provision of the ordinances of the town or state relating
to intoxicating liquors; nor to any individual less than twenty one (21) years
of age. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-14: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Violations Related To Operation Of Business: The town council may,
after a hearing, revoke or suspend any alcoholic beverage license on a finding
by it that the licensee or his officers, agents or employees have violated any
provision of this chapter or any ordinance of the town whether now or hereafter
enacted which in any way related to the operation of the business or the safety
of the public.
   B.   Hearing: A hearing before the town council may be requested by any
person:
      1.   That is denied or refused an alcoholic beverage license by any
officer, agent or employee of the town.
      2.   Whose alcoholic beverage license is revoked, restricted, qualified,
or limited from that for which it was first issued.
   C.   Request For Hearing: The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the town recorder and made within thirty (30) days following the date of notice
denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying, restricting or revoking the alcoholic
beverage license is mailed by the town to the applicant or license holder at
his address as it appears on the application or license.
   D.   Notification Of Hearing: Following receipt of a request for hearing,
the town recorder shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and
place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have
the right to hear and examine any witnesses the town may produce to support its
decision and to present his own evidence in support of his contention. The town
council shall, within ten (10) days following the conclusion of the hearing, in
writing, inform the person who requested the hearing of the decision of the
town council.
   E.   No More Than One Hearing: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the town council nor
shall the hearing provided in this chapter apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-4-15: PENALTY:
   A.   Sales Without License: It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to engage in the business of selling
alcoholic beverages at retail without first having procured a license therefor
from the town.
   B.   Sales After Revocation Of License: It shall be a class B misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to sell alcoholic beverages after the
revocation of the license issued pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-
2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
CHAPTER 5
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose And Findings
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Classifications Of Businesses
3-5-4: License Required
3-5-5: Issuance Of License
3-5-6: Fees
3-5-7: Inspections
3-5-8: Expiration Of License
3-5-9: Transferability
3-5-10: Hours Of Operation
3-5-11: Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or Videos
3-5-12: Loitering, Exterior Lighting And Monitoring
3-5-13: Suspension
3-5-14: Revocation
3-5-15: Hearing For Denial, Suspension Or Revocation; Appeal
3-5-16: Application To Existing Businesses
3-5-17: Penalty
3-5-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the town. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the first amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   B.   Findings: Based on evidence of the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to the town council,
and on findings incorporated in the cases of Pap's A.M. v. City Of Erie, 529
U.S. 277 (2000); City Of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986);
Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); O'Connor
v. City And County Of Denver, 894 F.2d 1210 (10th Cir. 1990); Z.J. Gifts D-2,
L.L.C. v. City Of Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); Dodger's Bar & Grill,
Inc. v. Johnson County, 98 F.3d 1262 (10th Cir. 1996); Connection Distrib. Co.
v. Reno, 154 F.3d 281 (6th Cir. 1998); Sundance Assocs. v. Reno, 139 F.3d 804
(10th Cir. 1998); American Library Association v. Reno, 33 F.3d 78 (D.C. Cir.
1994); Dodger's Bar & Grill, Inc. v. Johnson County, 32 F.3d 1436 (10th Cir.
1994); American Target Advertising, Inc. v. Giani, 199 F.3d 1241; (10th Cir.
2000); MS News Co. v. Casado, 721 F.2d 1281 (10th Cir. 1983); Doctor John's
Inc. v. Roy, 465F.3d 1150 (10th Cir. 2006); Salt Lake City v. Wood, 1999 Utah
App. 323, 991 P.2d 595 (Utah Ct. App. 1999); and other cases; and on testimony
to congress in 136 Cong. Rec. S 8987; 135 Cong. Rec. S. 14519; 135 Cong. Rec. S
5636; 134 Cong. Rec. E 3750; and reports of secondary effects occurring in and
around sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, Phoenix,
Arizona - 1984; Minneapolis, Minnesota - 1980; Houston, Texas - 1997; Amarillo,
Texas; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Los Angeles, California - 1977;
Whittier, California - 1978; Austin, Texas - 1986; Seattle, Washington - 1989;
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Cleveland, Ohio; and Dallas, Texas - 1997; St.
Croix County, Wisconsin - 1993; Bellevue, Washington - 1998; Newport News,
Virginia - 1996; New York Times Square study - 1994; Phoenix, Arizona - 1995-
98; and also on findings from the paper entitled "Strip Clubs According To
Strippers: Exposing Workplace Sexual Violence" by Kelly Holsopple, program
director, Freedom And Justice Center For Prostitution Resources, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, and from "Sexually Oriented Businesses: An Insider's View" by David
Sherman, presented to the Michigan house committee on ethics and constitutional
law, January 12, 2000, and the report of the attorney general's working group
on the regulation of sexually oriented businesses (June 6, 1989, state of
Minnesota), the town council finds:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the unlicensed
operators of the establishments.
      2.   Certain employees of unregulated "sexually oriented businesses"
defined in this chapter as adult theaters and adult cabarets engage in higher
incidence of certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other
establishments.
      3.   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at
unregulated sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide
private or semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos or live sex
shows.
      4.   Offering and providing such unregulated space encourages such
activities, which creates unhealthy conditions.
      5.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses, or for the purpose of purchasing
or selling illicit drugs.
      6.   Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring
in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, syphilis,
gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital herpes,
hepatitis, salmonella, campylobacter and shigella infections, chlamydia,
mycoplasmal and ureoplasmal infections, trichomoniasis and chancroid.
      7.   According to research from the Kaiser Family Foundation, an
estimated one million one hundred thousand (1,100,000) (1.1 million) Americans
are infected with HIV. The number of new HIV infections occurring each year is
now about fifty thousand (50,000). Men and women of all races are likely to be
infected by sexual contact.
      8.   Relevant statistics revealed that a total of one thousand six
hundred seventy two (1,672) AIDS cases had been reported in Utah as of January
1, 1999. Utah has required HIV case reporting since 1989, and shows two
thousand three hundred thirty eight (2,338) people currently living with HIV or
AIDS in the state.
      9.   The centers for disease control and prevention estimate that as many
as twenty one percent (21%) of people with HIV do not know they are infected.
      10.   The number of cases of primary and secondary syphilis in the United
States reported annually has risen, with seven thousand nine hundred eighty
(7,980) cases reported in 2004 and eleven thousand one hundred eighty one
(11,181) through 2007.
      11.   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with three hundred fifty thousand (350,000)
cases being reported in 2007.
      12.   The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      13.   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
See, e.g., findings of U.S. department of health and human services.
      14.   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      15.   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in
the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view "adult" oriented
films.
      16.   The findings noted in subsections B1 through B15 of this section
raise substantial governmental concerns.
      17.   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics that
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      18.   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the
town. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is
the actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and
control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      19.   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
      20.   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments.
      21.   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and will prevent the
further secondary effects of dissemination of illegal obscenity, child
pornography, and materials harmful to minors.
      22.   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      23.   The fact that an applicant for an adult use has been convicted of a
sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the applicant may
engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
      24.   The barring of such individuals from employment in sexually
oriented businesses for a specified period of years serves to prevent
distribution of illegal material, to prevent conduct which leads to the
transmission of sexually transmitted diseases, and to preclude the
establishment of criminal enterprises within the town.
      25.   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of
the town will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-
2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in this section
shall have the meanings herein respectively ascribed to them unless a different
meaning is clearly indicated by the context:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial
establishment which has significant or substantial portion of its stock in
trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space
to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of any one or more of the
following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
   B.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear seminude;
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MOTEL: A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and which
regularly provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and which regularly
advertises the availability of such material by means of a sign visible from
the public right of way, or by means of any off premises advertising,
including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets,
radio or television; and/or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten (10)
hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
for any form of consideration.
ADULT THEATER: Theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of seminudity or live performances which are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of specified anatomical areas
or specified sexual activities.
CONTROLLING INTEREST: The power, directly or indirectly, to direct the
operation, management or policies of a business or entity, or to vote twenty
percent (20%) or more of any class of voting securities of a business. The
ownership, control or power to vote twenty percent (20%) or more of any class
of voting securities of a business shall be presumed, subject to rebuttal, to
be the power to direct the management, operation or policies of the business.
DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON: The dominant or principal
theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the phrase
refers to films which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, the films so described are those whose dominant or principal
character and theme are the exhibition or description of specified anatomical
areas or specified sexual activities.
EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYMENT: Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a full
time, part time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an
employee, independent contractor, agent or otherwise. "Employee" does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or the relocation of any sexually oriented
business.
HEARING OFFICER: The board of appeals of Corinne City.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In case
of an "employee", it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually oriented
business employee license has been issued.
OPERATE OR CAUSE TO BE OPERATED: To cause to function or to put or keep in a
state of doing business.
OPERATOR: Any person on the premises of a sexually oriented business who is
authorized to exercise overall operational control of the business or who
causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business. A person may
be found to be operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business
whether or not that person is an owner, part owner or licensee of the business.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity.
REGULARLY FEATURES OR REGULARLY SHOWN: A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of seminudity, is provided for money or any form of consideration to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons.
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that a
person appearing in a state of seminudity did so in a modeling class operated:
1. By a college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
2. By a private college or university which maintains and operates educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
3. In a structure:
a. Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no other
advertising that indicates a seminude person is available for viewing; and
b. Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at least
three (3) days in advance of the class.
SEMINUDE OR STATE OF SEMINUDITY: A state of dress in which opaque clothing
covers no more than the genitals, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area,
vulva, and the female breast below a horizontal line across the top of the
areola, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices. This definition shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the
human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit,
or other wearing apparel; provided, that the areola is not exposed in whole or
in part.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, or adult entertainment
outcall service in the form of seminude dancing or exhibition, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, seminude model studio, or sexual encounter
establishment.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITY: The sale, rental or exhibition for
any form of consideration, of books, films, videocassettes, magazines,
periodicals, or live performances which are characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure or display of specific sexual activity.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Human genitals, anus, cleft of the buttocks, or the
female breast.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity
or illegal pornography; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a
minor; sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution of child
pornography; lewdness; sexual battery; rape; indecent exposure; indecency with
a child; engaging in organized criminal activity relating to a sexually
oriented business; sexual assault; molestation of a child; or distribution of a
controlled substance; criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit
any of the foregoing offenses or offenses involving the same elements from any
jurisdiction regardless of the exact title of the offense; for which:
1. Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
2. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
3. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanor offenses
or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any twenty four (24)
month period.
   B.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following:
   A.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, including intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation or sodomy; or
   B.   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in subsection A of this definition.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any of the
following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
VIEWING ROOM: The room, booth or area where a patron of sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette or
other video reproduction. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-3: CLASSIFICATIONS OF BUSINESSES:
Sexually oriented businesses shall be classified as follows:
   A.   Adult arcades;
   B.   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, adult video stores;
   C.   Adult cabarets;
   D.   Adult motels;
   E.   Adult motion picture theaters;
   F.   Adult theaters; and
   G.   Seminude model studios. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Business License Required: It shall be unlawful for
any person to operate a sexually oriented business in the town without a valid
sexually oriented business license.
   B.   Employee License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
"employee", as defined in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the
town without a valid sexually oriented business employee license.
   C.   Application: An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a
sexually oriented business employee license shall file in person, at the
business license division, a completed application made on a form provided by
the town. The application shall be signed by the applicant and be notarized.
   D.   Complete Application Requirements: An application shall be considered
complete when it contains the information required in this subsection as
follows:
      1.   The applicant's full true name and any other names used in the
preceding five (5) years.
      2.   Current business address or another mailing address of the
applicant.
      3.   Written proof of age, in the form of a copy of a birth certificate
or driver's license or other picture identification document issued by a
governmental agency.
      4.   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number
(if one currently exists) of the proposed sexually oriented business.
      5.   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to receive
service of process.
      6.   A statement of whether the applicant has been convicted or has pled
guilty or nolo contendere to a "specified criminal activity", as defined in
this chapter, and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date,
place and jurisdiction of each. The statement shall also disclose whether the
applicant has had a previous sexually oriented business or sexually oriented
business employee license under this chapter or other sexually oriented
business ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked
within the past two (2) years, including the name and location of the sexually
oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as
well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the
applicant has been a partner in a partnership, or an officer, director or
stockholder with a controlling interest in a corporation that is licensed under
this chapter whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation.
      7.   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). Applicants who are
required to comply with section
3-5-11 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of that
section.
      8.   The information provided pursuant to subsections D1 through D7 of
this section shall be supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the town within ten (10) working days of a change of
circumstances which would render the information originally submitted false or
incomplete.
   E.   Signature; Qualification: If a person who wishes to operate a sexually
oriented business is an individual, he shall sign the application for a license
as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each officer, director, general partner or other
person who will participate directly in decisions relating to management and
control of the business shall sign the application for a license as applicant.
Each applicant must be qualified under section
3-5-5 of this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted.
   F.   License Additional: A license or permit required by this chapter is in
addition to any other licenses or permits required by the town, county or state
to engage in the business or occupation. Persons engaged in the operation of an
adult oriented business or in employment in an adult oriented business shall
comply with all other applicable local, state and federal laws, ordinances and
statutes, including zoning ordinances, as may be required.
   G.   Information Confidential: The information provided by an applicant in
connection with an application for a license under this chapter shall be
maintained by the town on a confidential basis, except that such information
may be disclosed only to law enforcement agencies in connection with a law
enforcement or public safety function, or as may be required by governing law
or court order. The information provided by a sexually oriented business
license applicant in connection with the application for a license under this
chapter shall be maintained by the town. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Business: Upon the filing of a completed application
under subsection 3-5-4C of this chapter, for a sexually oriented business
license, the management services department shall immediately issue a temporary
license to the applicant, which temporary license shall expire upon the final
decision of the town to deny or grant the license. Within forty (40) days of
the initial filing date of the completed application, the town shall issue a
license to the applicant or issue to the applicant a letter of intent to deny
the application. The town shall approve the issuance of a license unless one or
more of the following is found by a preponderance of evidence to be true:
      1.   An applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by
section
3-5-4 of this chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form.
      3.   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      4.   An applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity",
as defined in this chapter, or has been shown to have committed a violation of
subsection 3-5-7A or 3-5-14B of this chapter within the previous year.
      5.   In the case of a sexually oriented business license application, the
premises is not in compliance with the interior configuration requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   Business Employee License: Upon the filing of a completed application
for a sexually oriented business employee license, the management services
department shall issue a temporary license to the applicant, which temporary
license shall expire upon the final decision of the town to deny or grant the
license. Within forty (40) days of the initial filing date of the receipt of a
completed application, the town shall either issue a license or issue a written
notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The town shall approve the
issuance of a license unless one or more of the following is found by a
preponderance of evidence to be true:
      1.   The applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age; or
      2.   The applicant is less than twenty one (21) years of age in
establishments where alcohol is served or consumed.
      3.   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by
section
3-5-4 of this chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form.
      4.   The license application fee required by this section has not been
paid.
      5.   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity",
as defined in this chapter, or has been shown to have committed a violation of
subsection 3-5-7A or 3-5-14B of this chapter within the previous year.
   C.   Content Of License: The license, if granted, shall state on its face
the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the
license issued to the licensee, the expiration date, and, if the license is for
a sexually oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business.
The sexually oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be
easily read at any time. A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the
employee's license on his or her person or on the premises where the licensee
is then working or performing and shall produce such license for inspection
upon request by a law enforcement officer or other town official performing
functions connected with the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-
2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-6: FEES:
The initial license and annual renewal fees for a sexually oriented business
license or a sexually oriented business employee license shall be set by the
town council at an amount determined by the town council as sufficient to pay
the cost of administering this chapter. In no event shall the fees exceed two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for the initial fee of a business and one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for annual renewal; and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the
initial employee license and fifty dollars ($50.00) for annual renewal. (Ord.
11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Sexually oriented business operators and sexually
oriented business employees shall permit officers or agents of the town who are
performing functions connected with the enforcement of this chapter to inspect
the portions of the sexually oriented business premises where patrons are
permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter, at any
time the sexually oriented business is occupied by patrons or open for
business. A licensee's knowing or intentional refusal to permit such an
inspection shall constitute a violation of this section.
   B.   Exception: The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an
adult motel which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from the date
of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be renewed
only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in sections
3-5-4 and
3-5-6, respectively, of this chapter. Application for renewal should be made at
least ninety (90) days before the expiration date, and when made less than
ninety (90) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will
not be affected. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-9: TRANSFERABILITY:
A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another person or entity,
nor shall a licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority
of a license at any place other than the address designated in the sexually
oriented business license application. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-10: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No sexually oriented business shall open to do business before ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. or remain open after two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the following day.
(Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-11: EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, films,
videocassettes, or other video reproductions characterized by an emphasis on
the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall
comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall contain
a diagram of the premises showing the location of all manager's stations,
viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, video cameras and monitors installed
for monitoring purposes, and restrooms, and shall designate all portions of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. Restrooms shall not contain
video reproduction equipment. The diagram shall also designate the place at
which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram shall be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6"). The town may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications
if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies
that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was
prepared.
   B.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the applicant.
   C.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
or viewing room may be made without the prior approval of the town.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection A of this section.
   E.   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
   F.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that no criminal sexual activity occurs in or on the
licensed premises.
   G.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that not more than one person is present in a viewing
room at any time. No person shall enter a viewing room that is occupied by
another person.
   H.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that no openings of any kind exist between viewing
rooms. No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing rooms.
   I.   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee who discovers
two (2) or more patrons in a viewing room or discovers any person making or
attempting to make an opening of any kind between viewing rooms, to immediately
escort such persons from the premises.
   J.   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee, who discovers
an opening of any kind between viewing rooms to immediately secure such rooms,
and prevent entry into them by any patron until such time as the wall between
the rooms has been repaired to remove the opening. Removal and repairing
openings between viewing rooms shall be in a manner that is as structurally
substantial as the original wall construction.
   K.   It shall be the duty of the operator, at least once each business day,
to inspect the walls between viewing rooms for openings of any kind.
   L.   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in well
lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
      1.   No loitering is permitted in viewing rooms.
      2.   The occupancy of viewing rooms is limited to one person.
      3.   Sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
      4.   The making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
      5.   Violators will be required to leave the premises.
      6.   Violations of subsections L2 through L4 of this section are
unlawful.
   M.   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that floor coverings in
viewing rooms are nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or
carpeting.
   N.   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that all wall surfaces
and seating surfaces in viewing rooms are constructed of or permanently covered
by nonporous, easily cleanable material.
   O.   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that premises are clean
and sanitary. Such duty shall be fulfilled if the operator complies with the
following cleaning procedures:
      1.   The operator shall maintain a regular cleaning schedule of at least
two (2) cleanings per day, documented by appropriate logs.
      2.   The operator shall provide an employee to check all areas for
garbage, trash, body fluids and excrement and to remove and clean all areas
with a disinfectant. All solid waste generated by the business shall be
collected from the premises for disposal at a lawful solid waste disposal
facility at least once each week. Prior to collection, solid waste shall be
stored in a manner that prevents access by animals or members of the public and
which will not facilitate the creation of a health nuisance.
      3.   Thorough cleaning of the entire interior of any room providing
patron privacy shall be done using a disinfectant. Cleaning shall include
floors, walls, doors, seating, monitors, video cameras, and windows and other
surfaces.
   P.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises in which patrons are permitted, including the interior of each viewing
room, but excluding restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose. A manager's station shall not exceed forty (40) square feet of floor
area. If the premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then
the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is
an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
      1.   It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one employee
is on duty and situated in each manager's station at all times that any patron
is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in this subsection remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at all times
that any patron is present on the premises.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this
subsection to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff.
7-1-2011)
3-5-12: LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING:
   A.   Requirements: It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually
oriented business to: 1) initiate and enforce a no loitering policy within the
external boundaries of the real property upon which the sexually oriented
business is located; 2) post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is
permitted on such property; 3) designate one or more employees to monitor the
activities of persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at
least once every ninety (90) minutes or inspecting such property by use of
video cameras and monitors; and 4) provide lighting of the exterior premises to
provide for visual inspection or provide video monitoring to prohibit
loitering. If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at
all times that the premises is open for business. The monitors shall be
installed within a manager's station.
   B.   Failure To Fulfill Duty: It shall be unlawful for a person having a
duty under this section to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 11-01, 6-
21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-13: SUSPENSION:
The town shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a sexually oriented
business license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days if it is
determined that the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly violated
this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee to violate this chapter. The
town shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a sexually oriented
employee license if it is determined that the employee has knowingly violated
this chapter. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-14: REVOCATION:
   A.   Suspension Within Specified Time: The town shall issue a letter of
intent to revoke a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented
business employee license if a cause of suspension as provided in section
3-5-13 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   Evidence Of Violations: The town shall issue a letter of intent to
revoke a sexually oriented business license or, in the case of an employee, a
sexually oriented business employee license, if the officer determines by a
preponderance of evidence that:
      1.   The licensee has knowingly given false or misleading information in
the application for the license.
      2.   The sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substances on the premises, or in the
case of an employee, the sexually oriented business employee licensee has
knowingly engaged in the possession, use or sale of controlled substances on
the premises. It shall be a defense to revocation proceedings under this
subsection that such possession, use or sale occurred pursuant to a valid
medical prescription.
      3.   The sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly allowed
prostitution on the premises or, in the case of an employee, the sexually
oriented business employee licensee has engaged in prostitution on any licensed
premises.
      4.   The sexually oriented business licensee knowingly operated the
sexually oriented business during a period of time when the license was
suspended or, in the case of an employee, the sexually oriented business
employee licensee has been employed as a sexually oriented business employee at
a time when the employee's license was suspended.
      5.   The sexually oriented business licensee committed an act in
violation of 18 United States Code section 2257, in or on the premises, or in
the case of an employee, the sexually oriented business employee licensee
committed an act in violation of 18 United States Code section 2257, in or on
the premises.
      6.   The sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly allowed any
specified sexual activity to occur in or on the premises or, in the case of an
employee, the sexually oriented business employee licensee has engaged in any
specified sexual activity in or on any licensed premises.
   C.   Appeal No Effect: The fact that any relevant conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the license.
   D.   Applicability Of Employee Acts: For the purposes of this section, an
act by any employee that constitutes grounds for revocation of that employee's
license shall also be imputed to the sexually oriented business for purposes of
revocation proceedings if the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of
evidence that an officer, director or general partner, or an employee who
managed, supervised or controlled, or participated directly in decisions
relating to management or control in the operation of the business, knowingly
allowed such act to occur on the premises.
   E.   Nature Of Revocation: When, after the notice and hearing procedure
described in section
3-5-15 of this chapter, the hearing officer revokes a license, the revocation
shall continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business license or sexually oriented business employee license for
one year from the date revocation becomes effective; provided, that if the
conditions of subsection 3-5-15B of this chapter are met, a provisional license
will be granted pursuant to that subsection. If, subsequent to a revocation
based solely on subsection B1 of this section, the town finds that the basis
for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted
a license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the
revocation became effective. If the license was revoked under subsections B2
through B6 of this section, an applicant may not be granted another license
until at least one year has elapsed. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-15: HEARING FOR DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; APPEAL:
   A.   Procedure: If the town determines that facts exist for denial,
suspension or revocation of a license under this chapter, the town shall notify
the applicant or licensee (respondent) in writing of the town's intent to deny,
suspend or revoke the license, including the grounds therefor, by personal
delivery, or by certified mail.
      1.   The notification shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the town for the respondent.
Within ten (10) working days of receipt of such notice, the respondent may
provide to the town a written response that shall include a statement of
reasons why the respondent believes the license should not be denied, suspended
or revoked.
      2.   Within five (5) working days of the receipt of respondent's written
response, the town shall notify respondent in writing of the hearing date on
respondent's denial, suspension or revocation proceeding. Within ten (10)
working days of the receipt of respondent's written response, the board of
appeals shall conduct a hearing at which respondent shall have the opportunity
to present all of respondent's arguments and to be represented by counsel,
present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross examine any of
the town's witnesses. The hearing shall take no longer than two (2) days,
unless extended to meet the requirements of due process and proper
administration of justice. The board of appeals shall issue a written opinion
within five (5) working days after the hearing. If a court action challenging
the town's decision is initiated, the town shall prepare and transmit to the
court a transcript of the hearing within ten (10) working days after the
issuance of the board of appeals' written opinion.
      3.   If a written response from respondent is not received by the town
within the time stated in subsection A1 of this section, or if after a hearing,
the hearing officer concludes that grounds as specified in this chapter exist
for denial, suspension or revocation of the license, then such denial,
suspension or revocation shall become final five (5) working days after the
hearing officer sends, by certified mail, written notice to the respondent that
the license has been denied, suspended or revoked. Such notice shall include a
statement advising the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction. If the hearing officer finds that no grounds
exist for denial, suspension or revocation of a license, then within five (5)
working days after the hearing, the hearing officer shall immediately withdraw
the intent to deny, suspend or revoke the license and shall notify the
respondent in writing by certified mail of such action. The town shall
contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   B.   Appeal: An applicant or licensee (aggrieved party) whose application
for a license has been denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked
shall have the right to appeal such action to a court of competent
jurisdiction. Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge,
restrain or otherwise enjoin the town's enforcement of the denial, suspension
or revocation, the town shall immediately issue the aggrieved party a
provisional license. The provisional license shall allow the aggrieved party to
continue operation of the sexually oriented business or to continue employment
as a sexually oriented business employee and will expire upon the court's entry
of a judgment on the aggrieved party's appeal or other action to restrain or
otherwise enjoin the town's enforcement.
   C.   Application During Temporary License Or Provisional License: Sexually
oriented businesses or sexually oriented business employees operating or
working under temporary licenses (as provided for in section
3-5-5 of this chapter), provisional licenses (as provided for in subsection B
of this section), or de facto temporary licenses (as provided for in section
3-5-16 of this chapter) shall be subject to the provisions of sections
3-5-9 through
3-5-12,
3-5-16, and
3-5-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-16: APPLICATION TO EXISTING BUSINESSES:
Upon adoption, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the activities of
all sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees
described herein, whether such businesses or activities were established or
commenced before, on or after the effective date hereof. All existing sexually
oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees are hereby granted
a de facto temporary license to continue operation or employment for a period
of ninety (90) days following the effective date hereof. Within said ninety
(90) days, all sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business
employees must make application for a license pursuant to this chapter. Within
said ninety (90) days, sexually oriented businesses must make any necessary
changes to the interior configurations of the regulated business premises to
conform to this chapter. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
3-5-17: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person, who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a civil fine not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00). Each day the violation is committed, or permitted
to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be fined as such.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to the penalty as
provided in this code.
   C.   The town attorney is hereby authorized to institute criminal or civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to prosecute,
restrain or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings, including injunction,
shall be brought in the name of the town; provided, however, that nothing in
this section and no action taken thereunder, shall be held to exclude such
criminal proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this code, or
any of the laws or ordinances in force in the town, or to exempt anyone
violating this code or any part of the said laws from any penalty which may be
incurred. (Ord. 11-01, 6-21-2011, eff. 7-1-2011)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisances Defined And Declared
4-1-2: Dangerous Buildings
4-1-1: NUISANCES DEFINED AND DECLARED:
   A.   Nuisances Defined: Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and
whatever renders soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome, is declared to
be a nuisance and unlawful.
   B.   Nuisances Declared Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person, as an
owner, agent, or occupant to create, aid in creating, contribute or maintain a
nuisance.
   C.   Responsible Party Defined:
      1.   The party or parties responsible for a nuisance shall be deemed to
be the owner of record, any tenant occupying the property, the agent of either
of these, and all other persons having control of the property upon which a
nuisance exists that is an outgrowth of the usual, natural, or necessary use of
the property or of the business or activities conducted thereon.
      2.   The party or parties responsible for a nuisance that is not an
outgrowth of the usual, natural, or necessary use of the property upon which it
exists, where any such nuisance shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use
of such property or from the business or activities conducted thereon, shall be
deemed to be the property's occupants and all other persons contributing to the
continuance of such nuisance.
   D.   Declaration Of Nuisance:
      1.   Every act performed or undertaken and every condition caused,
permitted, allowed, or continued in violation of this section is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and may be abated and punished as provided in Chapter
4 of this Title.
      2.   The following, without limitation, are hereby declared to be
nuisances:
         a.   Causing or permitting conditions that befoul the water of any
spring, stream, well, or water source supplying culinary water;
         b.   Allowing any privy vault, cesspool, or other individual
wastewater disposal system to become either a menace to health or a source of
odors;
         c.   Permitting a garbage container to become unclean and offensive;
         d.   Permitting a carcass or carcasses; decaying flesh, fish, fowl,
vegetables; other unwholesome substances; or filthy or offensive water to
accumulate or remain upon any private yard or premises, or to be thrown or
conducted onto any street, alley, public ground, or enclosure so as to be or to
be liable to, become hazardous or offensive;
         e.   Permitting any slaughterhouse, market, meat shop, stable, feed
yard, or other place or building wherein any animals are slaughtered, kept,
fed, or sold to become or to remain unclean, malodorous, noisome, or verminous,
or in any other condition detrimental to public health and safety;
         f.   Discharging, releasing, spilling, or pouring out any liquid
waste, offensive effluent, filthy water, or refuse of any kind into any street,
alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch, canal, or
vacant lot, which will, or, as a result of continued discharge, would render
the place of discharge offensive, noisome, malodorous, noxious, contaminated,
or otherwise dangerous or detrimental to public health and safety;
         g.   Keeping, collecting, or permitting the accumulation of stale or
putrid grease, rotting foodstuffs, sour milk or other dangerous or offensive
matter;
         h.   Keeping or offering drinking vessels for public use without
providing for decontamination between uses;
         i.   Failing to furnish any dwelling house, boarding house, factory,
or other place of employment with such privy vaults, water closets, sinks, or
other facilities as necessary to maintain the same in sanitary condition;
         j.   Failing, within twenty (20) days after issuance of relevant
notice, either (i) to repair, clean out, or disinfect, or (ii) to discontinue
the use of, and fill up a privy vault, cesspool, or other individual wastewater
disposal system;
         k.   Creating or permitting conditions that obstruct, interfere with,
or render dangerous to passage any street, sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage,
canal, basin, or public park without written permission from the town council;
         l.   Making, or permitting the making of unnecessary and or extreme
noise, or vibration, or carrying on any activity, business, or amusement in
such a way as to annoy or to disturb the peace and quiet of other persons;
         m.   Storing or accumulating, or permitting the storage or
accumulation of any of the following where not permitted by the applicable
zoning: (i) uncontained garbage, refuse, litter, or other solid waste; (ii)
auto parts, tires, scrap metal, machinery, or machinery parts; or (iii) junk,
abandoned items, construction supplies, or household goods;
         n.   Except where permitted by applicable zoning regulations, the
parking or storge of inoperative, unregistered, abandoned, wrecked, or
partially dismantled vehicles, including cars, boats, trailers, or trailer
parts, including recreational vehicles of any kind;
         o.   Parking or storing inoperable construction equipment of any sort
when it is readily visible from a public street, alley, or adjoining property,
unless (i) excavation, construction, or demolition, covered by an active
building permit, are in progress on the subject property or an adjoining
property, or (ii) the property is zoned for the parking or storage of
construction equipment;
         p.   Permitting or creating any attractive nuisance dangerous to
children or other persons, including, but not limited to, any of the following:
            (1)   Abandoned, broken, or neglected household appliances,
equipment, and machinery;
            (2)   Abandoned foundations or excavations;
            (3)   Abandoned, unmaintained, or unsecured outhouses or privies;
            (4)   Improperly maintained or secured pools; or
            (5)   Abandoned, discarded, or unattended chests, boxes,
refrigerators, freezers, or other such containers having a door or lock which
cannot be opened or released from the inside, unless such door or lock has been
removed so that no person may become trapped thereby;
         q.   Erecting any privy, toilet, or outhouse for depositing or
collecting human excreta.
         r.   Stacking or permitting the accumulation of wood scraps, shavings,
straw, chaff, hay, grain, forage, and the like within fifty (50) feet of any
dwelling or in any place where it might reasonably pose a fire hazard;
         s.   Permitting the growth of weeds, grass, or plant life until it
becomes dangerous, unsightly, or violative of section
4-3-2 of this title;
         t.   Building or allowing to be built any structure contrary to
applicable zoning regulations, or putting any building to a use not permitted
in the zone in which such building lies; or
         u.   Undertaking, permitting, or allowing any action analogous to the
above-listed nuisances in such a way as to create conditions which are (i)
noisome, noxious, or malodorous, (ii) dangerous to public health and safety; or
(iii) offensive to public morals.
         v.   Abandoned buildings, structures, rubbish, or other habitat for
rats, mice, raccoons, or other vermin.
   E.   Abatement of Nuisances: Corinne City may abate nuisances pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 4 of this Title, "Abatement of Violations."
   F.   Civil and Criminal Penalties: In addition to any other penalty provided
by law, any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter shall constitute a class C misdemeanor, subject to the civil and
criminal penalties set forth in Section
1-4-1 hereof, regardless of whether or not the Town pursues abatement under
Section
4-4-4.A. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014; amd. Ord. 22-01, 2- 15-2022)
4-1-2: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
All buildings will be subject to the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings, which is hereby adopted by the town council and on file in
the town office. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Regulations And Requirements
4-2-3: Garbage Collection Charges
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in commercial establishments, public or
quasi-public institutions or establishments, including restaurants, hotels,
motels and similar establishments.
COMMUNITY WASTE: Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
CONTAINER OR REGULATIONS CONTAINER: A type of garbage or trash container of
galvanized metal or other approved material and having a tightfitting lid or
properly and sufficiently treated weather resistant bag manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or consumption
of food and food products.
REFUSE: All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels, or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. Refuse shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in places of private residence and dining
halls not open to the public. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
4-2-2: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The town or its agent, as distinguished by ordinance, shall collect,
remove and dispose of all residential garbage, the removal of which is not
otherwise provided for by the establishment or institution as herein provided.
All garbage and refuse shall be collected, removed and disposed of with such
frequency and in such manner as the town council may from time to time
establish by regulation.
   B.   Commercial establishments, public or quasi-public institutions and
establishments creating commercial garbage, may remove commercial garbage
themselves or may employ the services of authorized contractors to remove
commercial garbage. Authorized garbage haulers must apply for and receive
permission to do so from the recorder. Haulage of refuse must be done in the
manner, at such times and in such vehicles as may be approved for such purposes
as the town council may from time to time by regulation provide.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate garbage or refuse or
cause garbage or refuse to be deposited upon any street or alley or upon any
premises in the town without express permission from the planning and zoning
commission. The commission may permit the feeding or processing of garbage or
refuse upon premises properly equipped and maintained so as to prevent the
creation of a nuisance or a hazard to health, or permit the depositing of ashes
and other dry material for filling purposes at such places as the commission
may designate and under such restrictions as the town council may by regulation
impose. Additionally, the commission may grant to any person permission for
sorting, bailing and marketing trade waste upon premises properly equipped and
maintained.
   D.   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude persons from hauling
their own garbage, trash or community waste over the streets and alleys of the
town as the town council may authorize.
   E.   All garbage that originates from within the town limits must be covered
while being transported.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as eliminating the charge
made for garbage service.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to burn garbage, market waste,
or other refuse in the open air or in any furnace or stove within the town.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to place, deposit or dump
garbage, market waste, paper boxes, cartons, trade waste, or night soil, or any
other refuse upon any lot within the town whether such lot is occupied or
vacant and whether such person so placing, depositing, or dumping such refuse
is the owner, tenant, occupant or lessee thereof, or has the same under his
jurisdiction and control.
   I.   The town council may adopt such regulations as in its opinion are
necessary to implement this part of its objectives.
   J.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to litter in public places. No person
(s) shall throw or deposit litter in or on any street, sidewalk, alleyway,
irrigation delivery ditch, or other public place.
   K.   Roll-off containers used for town cleanup may only be used for
residential community waste, residential refuse and residential garbage. No
appliances, tires, batteries, liquids or hazardous waste will be allowed in the
roll-offs. The roll-offs cannot be used after refuse reaches the marked
indicator on the outside. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
4-2-3: GARBAGE COLLECTION CHARGES:
   A.   All residents within the municipality shall pay the town garbage
service charges as adopted by rate resolution by the town council.
   B.   The garbage service charges imposed by this section shall be added to
the charge made for water furnished through the town water system and shall be
billed and collected in the same manner as water service charges are billed and
collected. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any
provision of this chapter, or failure to comply, shall be a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Standard Of Weed Control
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Weeds" shall include any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed or which
shall have been designated a noxious weed by the Utah commission of
agriculture. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
4-3-2: STANDARD OF WEED CONTROL:
   A.   Conditions Constituting Nuisance: It is hereby declared that weeds
constitute a nuisance when they:
      1.   Create a fire hazard, a source of contamination or pollution of the
water, air or property, a danger to health, a breeding place or habitation for
insects or rodents or other forms of life hazardous to humans, or are unsightly
or deleterious to their surroundings.
   B.   Height Limitation: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, partnership, association of persons, owner, agent, occupied or
unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the corporate limits of Corinne City
to suffer or permit a significant area of grass, weeds or brush that is
uncultivated or grow to a greater height than twelve inches (12") on any lot,
tract, parcel or land within the corporate limits of Corinne City.
      1.   This shall not apply to those tracts engaged in the growing of
agricultural crops and/or pasture.
   C.   Removal: The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within twenty
four (24) hours after cutting. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
It shall be an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for any person owning or occupying real property to allow
weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted by this chapter or not
remove from such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse, unsightly
or deleterious objects after having been given notice from Corinne City. (Ord.
14-02, 4-15-2014)
CHAPTER 4
ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Authority To Abate Violations–Responsibility
4-4-2: The Municipal Inspector
4-4-3: Notice Of Violation
4-4-4: Failure To Cure
4-4-5: Failure To Pay
4-4-1: AUTHORITY TO ABATE VIOLATIONS - RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Authority: Any condition caused, permitted, or maintained in violation
of any provision of this Title 4 may be abated by Corinne City pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this Chapter.
   B.   Responsibility: The owner of any property, as well as any non-owner
occupant thereof, has an affirmative duty to maintain that property free of any
violation under Section
4-1-1. (Ord. 22-01, 2-15-2022)
4-4-2: THE MUNICIPAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-11-1(1)(b), the Corinne City
Town Council shall appoint a municipal inspector for the purpose of carrying
out inspections and directing abatements as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   Powers:
      1.   The municipal inspector shall examine and investigate real property
in Corinne City to ascertain the existence and extent of any violation of the
provisions of Section
4-1-1 hereof.
      2.   Upon finding that a violation of Section
4-4-1 exists, the inspector shall deliver written notice thereof in accordance
with Subsection
4-4-3.
      3.   The inspector may neither authorize nor direct the abatement of
conditions associated solely with a structure's interior unless required for
the structure's demolition and removal. (Ord. 22-01, 2-15-2022)
4-4-3: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Contents: The written notice of violation described in Subsection
4-4-2.B.2 shall:
      1.   Identify the property owner according to the records of the county
recorder;
      2.   Identify and describe the property;
      3.   Explain the nature and results of the inspector's examination under
Subsection
4-4-2.B.1, specifically describing the violation(s) existing on the property;
and
      4.   Order the property owner to eradicate, remove, repair, or otherwise
abate the identified violation(s) on the property within a reasonable period of
time, as determined by the inspector, but in no case fewer than ten (10) days
after the written notice is delivered in person or postmarked.
   B.   Service:
      1.   The inspector shall mail the written notice of violation:
         a.   To the last-known address of the property owner as given in the
records of the county recorder; and
         b.   To the property address, if different from the address in
Subsection
4-4-3.B.1.a.
   C.   The inspector shall serve the written notice of violation under penalty
of perjury. (Ord. 22-01, 2-15-2022)
4-4-4: FAILURE TO CURE:
   A.   Abatement: If the owner or other party responsible for the property
identified in the written notice of violation fails to comply with the
inspector's order pursuant to Subsection
4-4-3.A.4, the inspector, at the town's expense, may employ such assistance as
necessary to enter the property and eradicate, remove, repair, or otherwise
abate the violation identified in the written notice of violation.
   B.   Statement of Expenses: Upon completion of the abatement contemplated in
Subsection
4-4-4.A, the inspector shall prepare a statement of expenses including:
      1.   a.   The address of the property upon which the inspector has
conducted the abatement;
         b.   An itemized list of and demand of payment for all expenses
incurred by the town in conducting the abatement under Subsection
4-4-4.A, including administrative costs;
         c.   Notice to the property owner (i) that failure to pay the expenses
set forth in the itemized list could result in a lien being filed against the
property; and (ii) that the property owner may file a written objection to all
or any part of the statement of expenses within twenty (20) days after the date
the statement was mailed; and
         d.   The address of the town offices where payment may be made or an
objection filed.
      2.   The statement of expenses shall be mailed by certified mail to the
property owner's last-known address, according to the records of the county
recorder, within 30 days after completion of the abatement conducted pursuant
to Subsection
4-4-4.A.
      3.   a.   The town may file notice of a lien against the property,
including a copy of the statement of expenses or a summary thereof, in the
office of the county recorder.
         b.   Upon the property owner's payment of the costs set forth in the
statement of expenses, the town shall file a release of the lien filed under
Subsection
4-4-4.B.3.a.
   C.   Objection and Hearing:
      1.   If a property owner files a timely written objection to the
statement of expenses under Subsection
4-4-4.B.1.c(ii), the town council shall hold a hearing wherein it shall review
and determine the actual cost of the abatement.
         a.   The hearing shall be held in accordance with Title 52, Chapter 4
of the Utah Code, the Open and Public Meetings Act.
         b.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing shall be
mailed to the property owner at least ten (10) days prior thereto.
      2.   If, after the hearing, the town council determines that actual costs
are owing, the property owner shall pay the costs due to the town treasurer
within 30 days after the date on which the hearing is held. (Ord. 22-01, 2-15-
2022)
4-4-5: FAILURE TO PAY:
If the owner of property subject to an abatement conducted pursuant to
Subsection
4-4-4.A fails to pay the costs due and owing under Subsections
4-4-4.B.1.b or
4-4-4.C.2, the town may:
   A.   Seek judicial foreclosure of a lien filed under Section
4-4-4.B.3.a;
   B.   File an action in district court for the costs due and owing, including
removal and destruction expenses, administrative costs, and reasonable attorney
fees, interest, and court costs, and execute on any judgment obtained as
provided by law; or
   C.   Certify to the county treasurer the unpaid costs and expenses that the
town incurred in conducting the abatement for entry on the assessment and tax
rolls of the county, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-11-4 or its successor statute
(s), as a political subdivision lien.
      1.   The town may pursue judicial foreclosure to enforce the lien under
Section
4-4-5.C rather than relying on a tax sale.
         a.   The municipality shall record the lien in the office of the
county recorder.
         b.   The priority date of the lien is the date on which the town
records the lien.
      2.   Payment by the property owner of the costs and expenses entered upon
the tax rolls by the county treasurer releases the lien against the property,
and the town shall thereupon record in the county recorder's office a release
of the lien. (Ord. 22-01, 2-15-2022)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Administration
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: License And Registration Of Dogs
5-1-4: Dogs At Large
5-1-5: Dangerous And/Or Vicious Animals
5-1-6: Nuisance Animals
5-1-7: Rabies Control And Animal Bites
5-1-8: Nonconforming Owners
5-1-9: Impoundment
5-1-10: Enforcement
5-1-11: Citation For Misdemeanor
5-1-12: Penalty
5-1-1: ADMINISTRATION:
The Corinne City council or authorized agent shall resolve dog related disputes
within the corporate limits of Corinne City. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADDITIONAL PET: Any dog in addition to the amount allowed per household.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility owned and operated by a governmental entity or any
animal welfare organization, which is incorporated within the state of Utah,
for the purpose of preventing cruelty to animals and used for the care and
custody of seized, stray, homeless, quarantined, abandoned or unwanted dogs,
cats or other domestic animals.
AT LARGE: A dog shall be considered to be "at large" when it is off the owner's
property and not under immediate control, by means of a durable restraint
device, capable of keeping the dog restrained.
BITE: Any actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the teeth
of an animal.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that, according to the records of the town or
county police agency:
   A.   Has inflicted serious injury on a human being, with or without
provocation, on public or private property;
   B.   Has killed or injured a domestic animal, with or without provocation,
while off the owner's property;
   C.   Has previously been found to be "potentially dangerous" the owner
having received notice of such, and it is witnessed and documented that the
animal aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans or
domestic animals;
   D.   The animal is found to be in violation of any restrictions placed upon
the animal pertaining to a potentially dangerous animal, as designated in this
chapter.
DOG: Any canine over six (6) months of age. Any canine under six (6) months of
age is a puppy.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Animals accustomed to living in or about the habitation of
man, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, rabbits, fowl, horses, swine,
goats, sheep, mules, donkeys, llamas and cattle.
NONCONFORMING: Anyone in conflict with this chapter, as to the number of dogs,
upon its enactment.
OFFICER: The person or persons appointed by the mayor and town council to give
citations and impound dog(s) as needed.
OWNER: Any person or persons, association, firm, or corporation owning, keeping
or harboring a dog.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that, with or without provocation,
chases or approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalks or any public
grounds, in a threatening or menacing fashion, or apparent attitude of attack,
or any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack with
or without provocation. In addition a potentially dangerous animal is any
animal that, because of witnessed and documented action, is believed capable of
causing injury, or otherwise posing a threat to the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
QUARANTINE: The isolation of an animal in a substantial enclosure, so the
animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.
RESTRAINT DEVICE: Any chain, leash, cord, rope or other device commonly used to
restrain an animal.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal which:
   A.   Has inflicted serious injury on a human being, with or without
provocation, on public or private property;
   B.   Has killed or injured a domestic animal, with or without provocation,
while off the owner's property;
   C.   Has previously been found to be a "dangerous animal", the owner having
received notice of such and the animal again bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals; or it is witnessed and documented that
the animal is in violation of restrictions placed upon the animal pertaining to
a potentially dangerous or dangerous animal, pursuant to section
5-1-5 of this chapter.
WORRY: To harass by tearing, biting, or shaking with the teeth, with or without
provocation. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
5-1-3: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION OF DOGS:
   A.   License And Registration:
      1.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to own, keep,
harbor, board or maintain a dog within the Corinne City limits, without
registering and obtaining a license for such dog(s), available from the Corinne
City recorder or other person designated by the mayor and town council.
      2.   When To Apply: The license may be applied for any time after January
1, and up to February 28 of any year.
      3.   Time Limit To Register: All dogs brought into Corinne City shall
require registering and licensing within thirty (30) days after they enter
Corinne City, or within thirty (30) days after reaching the age of six (6)
months.
      4.   Late Fee: Persons who fail to obtain a license, as required within
the time period specified in this section, will be subject to an additional
licensing "late fee".
      5.   Information Required: The owner shall state at the time of
application for license, the owner's name, address, and the dog's name, sex,
breed, and color.
      6.   Proof Of Spay Or Neuter; Exception:
         a.   No dog shall be licensed as spayed or neutered without proof that
the surgery has been performed.
         b.   An exception is allowed if a written statement is received from a
licensed veterinarian stating that the animal in question cannot, for a stated
reason, have the surgery performed, or that the animal is of such an age that
the surgery would not alter the outcome.
      7.   Rabies Inoculation; Exceptions:
         a.   Proof that the dog has a current rabies inoculation shall be
present at the time the license is applied for. Proof must be in writing and
must include the name and signature of the licensed veterinarian who
administered the vaccine. Exception: If a written statement is received from a
licensed veterinarian stating that the animal in question cannot, for stated
reasons, have a rabies inoculation.
         b.   Rabies vaccinations become invalid after two (2) years from the
date of vaccination 1 , unless otherwise shown on the rabies certificate.
Vaccinations expiring January through June of the license year will be required
to be brought current prior to licensing. Exception: If a written statement is
received from a licensed veterinarian stating that the vaccination will be
valid through the current calendar year.
   B.   Fees For Dog Licensing:
      1.   This municipality shall issue no dog license until the required fee,
as set forth in the Corinne City fee schedule, is paid.
      2.   The license fee shall cover the calendar year in which it was
issued; expiring on December 31 of the year of issuance, regardless of the date
when issued.
   C.   Tag And Collar:
      1.   Requirements: Upon payment of the license fee, the owner shall be
issued a license certificate and a numbered metal tag for each dog so licensed.
The tag shall change each year and shall have stamped thereon the year for
which it was issued. Every dog owner, except those operating a boarding kennel
or other such establishment, shall provide each dog with a collar to which the
license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn.
      2.   Duplicate License: In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed the
recorder, upon presentation of the license for the current year, will issue a
duplicate.
      3.   Nontransferable; Refunds: Dog tags shall not be transferable from
one dog to another, and no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee because
of the death of the dog or the owner leaving the municipality before expiration
of the license period.
      4.   Unlawful To Deprive: It shall be unlawful to deprive a registered
dog of its collar and/or tag.
      5.   Nuisance Declared: Any dog(s) without a collar with the registration
tag attached or which has not been registered, is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be immediately impounded.
   D.   Number Of Dogs Per Residence:
      1.   Specified: No person or persons at any one residence within the
jurisdiction of this chapter, shall at any one time own, keep or harbor, board,
license or maintain more than three (3) dogs, six (6) months or older.
      2.   Permits Required: Any person maintaining, keeping, harboring, or
boarding four (4) or more dogs, six (6) months or older, within the town limits
shall be required to have an additional dog permit. Payment of the annual
additional dog permit fee shall entitle such owner to license up to six (6)
dogs annually. All applications for said permits shall be submitted in writing
upon printed forms provided by the Corinne City office. Upon approval the town
recorder shall issue a permit upon payment of the required fee(s), as set forth
in the town fee schedule, which is subject to amendment by the town council by
resolution. The regular license fee shall also be charged for each dog. Owners
shall be subject to all provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1-7A of this chapter.
5-1-4: DOGS AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any dog to be allowed, either negligently or with
specific intent, to run "at large" as defined in this chapter. Any dog so found
is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and
safety, and shall be taken up and impounded as provided herein. Whenever
possible the owner shall be notified. The owner or keeper may be cited. (Ord.
11-04, 11-1-2011)
5-1-5: DANGEROUS AND/OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Possession Of Potentially Dangerous Animal: Any person or persons who
owns or maintains a potentially dangerous animal shall use all reasonable means
at his/her disposal to restrict a potentially dangerous animal from injuring
any person or other animal. The town may from time to time, impose specific
restrictions regarding the housing of potentially dangerous animals.
   B.   Failure To Properly Confine Potentially Dangerous Animal: Any owner of
any potentially dangerous animal who wilfully allows it to go at large or who
fails to hold the same in the manner specified for such an animal, by Corinne
City is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.
   C.   Possession Of Dangerous Animal:
      1.   Any dangerous animal while on the owner's property must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable
to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the animal from
escaping. Such pen or structure for a dangerous animal shall have secure sides
and top and shall also provide protection from the elements for the animal. The
pen or structure shall be such that the animal cannot burrow or dig under the
sides of the enclosure.
      2.   Dangerous animals, when outside the enclosure, must be under the
immediate control of a responsible adult by means of an adequate restraining
device as defined herein and muzzled. The muzzle shall be made in such a manner
that it will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
      3.   The town officer may take into immediate possession any dangerous
animal if the officer determines:
         a.   That the animal is not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
         b.   That the animal is outside of the owner's dwelling or outside of
a proper enclosure and not under physical restraint; or
         c.   If there are any further violations of any legal restrictions
previously placed on such animal provided in this section.
   D.   Declaration And Disposal Of Vicious Animals: If the town officer
determines, as a result of a witnessed incident, that an animal is potentially
a danger or dangerous and finds that the animal is in violation of such
restrictions as the town has deemed necessary for the safety of persons and/or
animals in the community, the animal may be declared a vicious animal. The town
may immediately take possession of the vicious animal and place said animal in
a proper quarantine facility and thereafter destroy the animal in an
expeditious and humane manner if the owner or custodian after having received
notice of such fails to make a request in writing to the quarantine facility to
delay said action.
      1.   It is determined that a proper holding period for any vicious animal
shall be three (3) working days. In the event the owner or custodian of the
vicious animal fails to request, in writing, a formal hearing within the three
(3) day holding period the holding facility is authorized to destroy the
vicious animal in a humane manner. The holding period shall be extended to meet
state and local regulations for quarantine for animals needing rabies
evaluation.
      2.   Any owner or custodian who files a written request shall be afforded
a hearing before the Corinne City council. It shall be the responsibility of
the council to determine whether the animal should be returned to the owner or
custodian to be destroyed.
         a.   At any hearing under this subsection, the officer making the
declaration of a vicious animal shall appear and testify, under oath, regarding
the facts, which led to the required findings. The officer shall be subject to
cross examination by the owner, custodian or authorized representative.
         b.   The officer may also present any additional evidence or sworn
testimony supporting his/her decision. The owner or custodian of the animal may
likewise present evidence or sworn testimony in support of his/her position.
The hearing shall be informal, but shall be recorded.
         c.   The animal shelter shall not order the destruction of the animal
until a decision is rendered and the Corinne City council notifies the shelter,
in writing, of the decision. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
5-1-6: NUISANCE ANIMALS 1 :
   A.   Animals Declared Nuisance; Penalty: Any person having custody of a dog
(s) shall exercise proper care and control of his/her animal(s) in order to
prevent it from becoming a public nuisance. Any owner or possessor of an animal
who keeps such animal contrary to the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a class C misdemeanor and subject to punishment under authority of
this chapter. An animal shall be deemed to be a public nuisance if the animal:
      1.   Causes damage to, damages, or destroys property of anyone other than
the animal's owner.
      2.   Causes unreasonable odors.
      3.   Causes unsanitary conditions.
      4.   By loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling or yelping, shall
annoy, disturb or endanger the health and welfare of any person or
neighborhood, attested to by more than one complainant or witnessed by Corinne
City's animal control officer.
      5.   Chases any person, vehicle, bicycle or other animal that is properly
restrained.
      6.   Bites, attacks, chases or worries a person or domestic animal.
         a.   Owner Liable: The owner in violation of the above shall be
strictly liable for damages to any person injured or to the owner of any animal
(s) injured or destroyed thereby.
         b.   Exception: A dog shall not be considered a public nuisance under
this section if it bites a person who is wrongfully assaulting the dog or the
dog's owner, or if it bites a person upon the premises owned or occupied by the
dog's owner after being provoked by that person.
      7.   Scatters garbage.
      8.   Urinates or defecates on property of another or town property.
      9.   Is an animal, which has, been impounded for being at large, or its
owner or possessor has been convicted for a dog being at large on three (3)
separate occasions within a twelve (12) month period.
      10.   Is an animal previously declared potentially dangerous or dangerous
and is found in violation of restrictions placed on that dog by the town.
      11.   If the dog trespasses on private property of a person other than
the dog's owner.
   B.   Abatement Of Public Nuisance Animals:
      1.   "Abatement" shall be defined to include either relocating or
euthanizing the animal.
      2.   When it reasonably appears to the town that an animal is a "public
nuisance" as defined in this chapter, and that such nuisance should be abated,
the town appointed officer shall first attempt to get written consent of the
animal's owner to abate the animal.
      3.   If the animal's owner's consent cannot be readily obtained, the town
may file with the governing court a charge of maintenance of a public nuisance.
The charge shall set forth the facts, according to the best information,
indicating that the owner is maintaining a public nuisance, and the nuisance
should be abated. Until such time as the owner may be summoned to appear before
the court, the animal(s) may be impounded, and held pending a decision by the
court.
      4.   If the charge is denied, a hearing will be set pursuant to the
normal procedure of the governing court. If the court finds that the charge of
maintaining a public nuisance has been proven, the court shall issue an order
setting out the method of abatement.
      5.   Abatement, by relocation, shall not be an option if the animal
represents a continuing threat or serious harm, such as in the case of a
vicious dog.
      6.   If relocation is ordered, the court may set whatever conditions are
necessary to guarantee that the animal shall not constitute a nuisance in the
future.
      7.   In the event the court determines that, in fact, the animal is a
public nuisance, the owner shall pay the cost of all impoundment fees,
maintenance fees, or any other fee that may incur as a result of such
impoundment. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-1C2f of this code.
5-1-7: RABIES CONTROL AND ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Vaccination Requirements: All dogs shall be vaccinated by a duly
licensed veterinarian or at a rabies clinic. Every dog shall be revaccinated
every two (2) years thereafter (see also subsection 5-1-3A7b of this chapter).
Any unvaccinated dog over six (6) months of age, adopted, or brought into the
jurisdiction, must likewise be vaccinated initially. Thereafter valid
protection must be maintained.
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals Without Valid Rabies Vaccination Tag:
      1.   Its owner may reclaim any vaccinated animal impounded because of
lack of a rabies vaccination tag by furnishing proof of a rabies vaccination
and payment of all impoundment fees prior to release.
      2.   Any unvaccinated animal may be reclaimed prior to disposal by
payment of impound fees and by obtaining or providing proof of a rabies
vaccination within seventy two (72) hours of release.
      3.   Any animal not reclaimed within the prescribed period of time shall
be disposed of pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Rabid Animal Reports: Any person having knowledge of the whereabouts of
an animal known to have been exposed to or suspected of having rabies or of an
animal or person bitten by such a suspected animal shall notify Corinne City or
the Box Elder County health department.
   D.   Quarantine And Disposition Of Biting Animal:
      1.   An animal that has rabies or shows signs of having rabies and every
animal bitten by another animal affected with rabies or that has been exposed
to rabies shall be reported, by the owner, as set forth above, and shall
immediately be confined in a secure place by the owner. The owner shall turn
over the animal in question to the town officer or designated agent upon
demand.
      2.   The owner of any animal that has been bitten by another animal known
to be capable of harboring the rabies virus shall surrender the animal to an
authorized official upon demand. Any person authorized to enforce this chapter
may enter upon private property to seize the animal if the owner refuses to
surrender the animal (see subsection 5-1-10A of this chapter).
      3.   Any animal subject to rabies that bites a person or animal or is
suspected of having rabies may be seized and quarantined for observation for a
period of not less than fourteen (14) days by the animal shelter. The owner of
the animal shall bear the cost of confinement. The animal shelter shall be the
normal place for such quarantine, but other arrangements, including confinement
by the owner, may be made by the officer if the animal has current rabies
vaccinations at the time the bite is inflicted or if there are other special
circumstances justifying an exemption. A person who has custody of an animal
under quarantine shall immediately notify Corinne City if the animal shows any
sign of sickness or abnormal behavior or if the animal escapes confinement. It
is unlawful for any person who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail or
refuse to allow an officer or representative of the health department to make
an inspection or examination during the period of quarantine.
         a.   If the animal dies within fourteen (14) days from the date of the
bite the person having custody shall immediately notify Corinne City office in
order that they may have the head immediately removed and delivered to the
state health department.
         b.   If at the end of the fourteen (14) day period an investigating
officer of the town or animal shelter examines the animal and finds no sign of
rabies, the animal may be released to the owner. In the case of a stray it
shall be disposed of as provided in this chapter.
      4.   In the case of an unvaccinated animal known to have been bitten by a
known rabid animal, such bitten or exposed animal shall be immediately
destroyed.
   E.   Bites; Duty To Report:
      1.   Any person having knowledge of any individual or dog having been
bitten by an animal subject to rabies shall report the incident immediately to
the Box Elder County sheriff's department.
      2.   The owner of a dog that bites a person and any person bitten by a
dog shall report the bite to the Box Elder County sheriff's department within
twenty four (24) hours of the bite.
      3.   A physician or other medical personnel who renders professional
treatment to a person bitten by a dog shall report the fact that he/she has
rendered professional treatment to the Box Elder County sheriff's department
within twenty four (24) hours of the first professional attendance. He shall
report the name, sex and address of the person bitten, as well as the type and
location of the bite. If known, he shall give the name and address of the owner
of the dog that inflicted the bite, and any other facts that may assist the Box
Elder County sheriff's department.
      4.   Any person treating an animal bitten, injured or mauled by another
animal shall report the incident to the Box Elder County sheriff's department.
The report shall contain the name and address of the owner of the wounded,
injured, or bitten animal, the name and address of the owner and description of
the animal that caused the injury, and the location of the incident.
      5.   Any person not conforming to the requirements of this section shall
be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
5-1-8: NONCONFORMING OWNERS:
An owner who is "nonconforming", will stay as such until such time that they
come into compliance by reducing the number of dogs, due to death, selling or
giving away of their current dogs, after such time they will be held to the
terms of this chapter. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
5-1-9: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Animal Shelter Provided: Corinne City has contracted with Brigham City
Animal Shelter where impounded animals will be adequately housed and fed.
   B.   Impoundment Authorized; Conditions:
      1.   All animals taken into custody shall be placed in an adequate
shelter which the town of Corinne City has contracted for this purpose.
      2.   The following animals may be taken into custody and impounded as
deemed necessary:
         a.   Any dog being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of
this chapter.
         b.   Any dog running at large, with any reasonable means used to
immobilize.
         c.   Any dog which is not licensed. A dog not wearing a tag shall be
presumed to be unlicensed for the purpose of this section.
         d.   Any abandoned or neglected dog(s) whose safety may be threatened
should the animal not be readily placed into protective custody.
         e.   Dog(s) which are not vaccinated for rabies in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
         f.   Any animal needing to be held for quarantine.
         g.   Any potentially dangerous or dangerous animal not properly
confined as required by this chapter.
   C.   Redemption Requirements:
      1.   The owner of an impounded animal or his authorized representative
may redeem such animal before disposition, provided he/she pays:
         a.   The impound fees;
         b.   The daily board charges;
         c.   Any veterinary costs incurred during the impoundment period;
         d.   Transportation fee, if any;
         e.   Any other expenses incurred to impound an animal in accordance
with state or local laws.
      2.   Fees for impound and boarding shall be set from time to time by the
agency contracted for impounding of animals by Corinne City.
   D.   Terms Of Impoundment, Destruction And Disposal Of Animals:
      1.   Animals shall be impounded for a minimum of three (3) working days
before further disposition. If an animal is licensed the impoundment shall be
for three (3) working days.
      2.   Reasonable effort shall be made to notify the owner of any animal
wearing a license or other identification during that time. Notice shall be
deemed given when sent to the last known address of the listed owner.
      3.   Any animal voluntarily relinquished to the animal control facility,
by the owner thereof, for destruction or other disposition need not be kept for
the minimum holding period before release or other disposition, as herein
provided.
      4.   All animals, except those quarantined or confined by court order or
those subject to Utah Code Annotated section 4-25-4, which are held longer than
the minimum impoundment period and all animals voluntarily relinquished to the
impound facility may be destroyed. Any healthy dog may be sold at the
discretion of the animal shelter.
      5.   Any licensed animal impounded and having or suspected of having
serious physical injury or contagious disease requiring medical attention may,
at the discretion of the animal shelter be released to the care of a
veterinarian with or without the consent of the owner.
      6.   When, in the judgment of the animal shelter, it is determined that
an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons or to protect the public from
imminent danger to person or property such animal may be destroyed without
regard to any time limitation otherwise established in this chapter and without
a court order. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
5-1-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Right Of Entry: In the enforcement of this chapter, all officers
designated by the Corinne City council and mayor, are hereby authorized to
enter onto the open premises of any person or entity to take possession of any
animal in violation of this chapter.
   B.   Interference With Officer Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere, molest, hinder or obstruct the poundmaster or any of his
authorized representatives in the discharge of their duties as herein
prescribed.
   C.   Investigation: The Box Elder County sheriff's department and/or the
town officers may enter upon privately owned land to investigate reports of
vicious animals, rabies and other contagious animal disease and to investigate
violations of and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-
2011)
5-1-11: CITATION FOR MISDEMEANOR:
   A.   The town council, designated officer or any public official charged
with the enforcement of laws of this town, in lieu of taking a person into
custody, may issue and deliver a citation requiring any person subject to
arrest or prosecution on a misdemeanor charge to appear at the court of the
magistrate before whom the person could be taken pursuant to law, if the person
had been arrested.
   B.   If a citation is issued the town council or designated officer shall
issue one copy to the person cited and shall within five (5) days file a
duplicate copy with the court specified in the citation. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-
2011)
5-1-12: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specifically provided a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be punished as an infraction. (Ord. 11-04, 11-1-2011)
ARTICLE A. LIVESTOCK
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Definitions
5-1A-2: Fences And Enclosures
5-1A-3: Livestock Running At Large
5-1A-4: Exception
5-1A-5: Violation
5-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
AT LARGE: Not "properly restrained" as defined in this section.
LIVESTOCK: Any normally domesticated animal that is ordinarily kept on a farm,
such as cattle, swine, sheep, goats, mules, burros, horses, geese, turkeys,
llamas, etc.
PROPERLY RESTRAINED: Any animal, including livestock, is properly restrained if
it is under the control of its owner or person having charge, care, custody or
control, except an animal shall not be considered under control of the owner
unless on a leash or lead, confined within a vehicle, or restrained within the
real property limits of the owner by a fence or enclosure. (Ord. 08-04, 10-20-
2008)
5-1A-2: FENCES AND ENCLOSURES:
Fences and enclosures are to be constructed so as to be adequate for the size
and type of livestock to limit the livestock's movement to a specific area. The
owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of any livestock, shall
be liable under this chapter for failure to properly maintain such enclosure or
fence. (Ord. 08-04, 10-20-2008)
5-1A-3: LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody or control
of any livestock to allow such livestock at any time to run at large. The owner
or person charged with responsibility of livestock found running loose shall be
strictly liable for a violation of this section and for any property damage or
injury to a person or another animal caused by such livestock running at large.
(Ord. 08-04, 10-20-2008)
5-1A-4: EXCEPTION:
If livestock is at large because of damage to the fence or enclosure caused by
someone other than the livestock owner or person having charge, care, custody
or control of the livestock, then the person or persons responsible for causing
the damage to the fence or enclosure shall be liable for damages and fines. The
livestock owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of the
livestock must repair the fence or enclosure as quickly as possible to prevent
further damage. (Ord. 08-04, 10-20-2008)
5-1A-5: VIOLATION:
It is a class B misdemeanor for any person violating any provision of this
article, either by failing to do those acts required herein or by doing any act
prohibited herein. Any person found guilty of violating this or any provision
of this article shall be subject to a fine in an amount not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6)
months, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such. (Ord. 08-04, 10-20-2008)
CHAPTER 2
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Firearms And Dangerous Weapons
5-2-2: Unlawful Consumption Of Alcohol In Public Places
5-2-3: Unlawful Public Acts
5-2-1: FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS WEAPONS:
   A.   A person may not discharge any kind of dangerous weapon or firearm:
      1.   From an automobile or other vehicle, except as provided in
subsection B of this section;
      2.   From, upon, or across any highway;
      3.   At any road signs placed upon state highways;
      4.   At any town road signs;
      5.   At any communications equipment or property of public utilities
including facilities, lines, poles or devices of transmission or distribution;
      6.   At railroad equipment or facilities, including any sign or signal;
      7.   Within Utah state park buildings, town buildings, designated camp or
picnic sites, historical sites and/or streetlights; or
      8.   Without written permission to discharge the dangerous weapon from
the owner or person in charge of property within six hundred feet (600') of:
         a.   A house, dwelling or any other building;
         b.   Any structure in which a domestic animal is kept or fed,
including a barn, poultry yard, corral, feeding pen or stockyard.
   B.   An individual validly licensed to hunt who is a paraplegic, or
otherwise permanently disabled so as to be permanently confined to a wheelchair
or the use of crutches, and possesses a valid certificate of registration may
be authorized to hunt from a vehicle.
   C.   A person may not carry a loaded firearm in or on a vehicle, except as
otherwise provided by statute.
      1.   A pistol, revolver, rifle or shotgun is deemed to be loaded when
there is an unexpended cartridge, shell or projectile in the firing position.
      2.   Pistols and revolvers are also deemed to be loaded when an
unexpended cartridge, shell or projectile is in a position whereby the manual
operation of any mechanism once would cause the unexpended cartridge, shell or
projectile to be fired.
      3.   A muzzle loading firearm is deemed to be loaded when it is capped or
primed and has a powder charge and ball or shot in the barrel or cylinders.
(Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
5-2-2: UNLAWFUL CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply for purposes of this
section:
    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage defined by the Utah state code as an
"alcoholic beverage".
   PUBLIC PLACES: Any real property owned or leased by Corinne City that is
used for transacting public business, or regularly conducting governmental
activities.
   B.   No Consumption Of Alcohol In Public Places: A person may not consume an
alcoholic beverage in a public place including buildings, parks, and open space
except as provided by Utah state code.
   C.   Violation: A violation of this section is punishable as a class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 08-08, 6-3-2008, eff. 7-14-2008)
5-2-3: UNLAWFUL PUBLIC ACTS:
   A.   The following are declared to be unlawful public acts:
      1.   Depositing any foul, offensive, unwholesome, nauseating, dangerous,
or otherwise injurious substance upon any public sidewalk, street, alley,
thoroughfare, or other public place, or upon any private property within the
limits of Corinne City.
      2.   Permitting or performing ablutions in or near any public fountain,
reflecting pool, cascade, or other ornamental water feature.
      3.   Defecating or urinating on a street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public place.
      4.   Writing or drawing lewd, obscene, indecent, or otherwise offensive
words or images on or around a public toilet.
      5.   Placing graffiti of any kind on any structure or surface without the
express permission of the owner thereof.
      6.   Creating or permitting conditions that obstruct, interfere with, or
render dangerous to passage any street, sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage,
canal, basin, or public park without written permission from the town council.
      7.   Spitting or expectorating on the walls, floors, or furnishings of
any public building or conveyance, or upon any sidewalk or street.
   B.   A violation of this section is punishable as a class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 22-01, 2-15-2022)
CHAPTER 3
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Prohibited Acts
5-3-4: Maximum Permissible Noise Levels
5-3-5: Maximum Allowable Noise Levels
5-3-6: Exemptions
5-3-7: Waivers And Implementation Schedules
5-3-8: Enforcement Policy And Penalties
5-3-1:  PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the health, safety,
welfare, peace, quiet, and quality of life for the citizens of Corinne City
through the reduction, control, and prevention of excessive noise. It is the
intent of this chapter to establish standards that will eliminate and reduce
unnecessary and excessive community noise, which are physically harmful or
detrimental to individuals and the community in the enjoyment of life, property
and conduct of business. (Ord. 23-01, 2023)
5-3-2:  DEFINITIONS:
All terminology used in this chapter, not defined below, shall be in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
                          The sound pressure level in decibels measured using
                          the "A" weighting network on a sound level meter. The
DBA:                      sound pressure level, in decibels, of a sound is
                          twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base IO of the
                          ratio of the pressure of the sound to a reference
                          pressure of twenty (20) micro pascals.
                          Any equipment or device rated at five (5) horsepower
                          or less and used for home or building repairs or
                          grounds maintenance, including, but not limited to,
DOMESTIC POWER EQUIPMENT: power saw, sander, vacuum, lawn mower, leaf blower,
                          gas or electrical irrigation pump, and garden
                          equipment. "Domestic Power Equipment" does not
                          include snow blowers or other snow removal equipment.
                          A sound of short duration, usually less than one
                          second, with an abrupt onset and rapid decay.
IMPULSIVE SOUND:          Examples of sources of impulsive sound include
                          explosions, dropforge impacts, and the discharge of
                          firearms.
                          The outside watering of shrubbery, trees, lawns. sod,
                          grass, ground covers, plants, vines, ornamental
LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION:     gardens, and such other flora not intended for
                          resale, which are planted and are situated in such
                          diverse locations as residential landscapes,
                          recreation areas.
                          Any sound which: a) endangers or injures the safety
                          or health of humans or animals; or b) annoys or
NOISE DISTURBANCE:        disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities;
                          or c) endangers or injures personal or real property;
                          or d) exceeds the noise levels identified in Table 1
                          of this chapter.
                          Any individual, corporation, partnership,
PERSON:                   association, governmental body, state agency or other
                          entity whatsoever.
                          Any sound that can be detected by a person using his
                          or her unaided hearing faculties. As an example, if
                          the sound source under investigation is a portable or
                          personal vehicular sound amplification or
PLAINLY AUDIBLE:          reproduction device, the enforcement officer need not
                          determine the title of a song, specific words, or the
                          artist performing the song. The detection of the
                          rhythmic base component of the music is sufficient to
                          constitute a plainly audible sound.
                          The surveyed line at ground surface, which separates
                          the real property owned, rented, or leased by one or
PROPERTY BOUNDARY:        more persons, from that owned, rented, or leased by
                          one or more other persons, and its vertical
                          extension.
PURE TONE:                Any sound that is judged to be a single pitch or set
                          of single pitches by the enforcement officer.
                          Real property within which the maximum permissible
RECEIVING PROPERTY:       noise levels specified herein shall not be exceeded
                          from sources outside such property.
                          A device which measures sound pressure levels and
SOUND LEVEL METER:        conforms to Type l or Type 2 as specified in the
                          American National Standards Institute Specification S
                          1.4-1971. (Ord. 23-01, 2023)
 
5-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Noise Disturbances Prohibited: No person shall make or cause to be made
any noise disturbance.
   B.   Specific Prohibition: Violations of this chapter shall include, but not
be limited to, the following acts, and causes thereof which either annoy,
disturb, injure, or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of a
reasonable person of normal sensibilities:
      1.   Domestic Power Equipment: The operation of any domestic power
equipment shall only be allowed between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      2.   Radios, Television Sets, Sound Amplifiers, Musical Instruments And
Similar Devices: Operating, playing, or permitting the operation or playing of
any sound reproductive device, musical instrument, or similar device which
produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound:
         a.   In or from a motor vehicle at a sound level exceeding 50 dBA as
measured from the nearest curb or edge of the roadway or which is plainly
audible more than twenty-five (25) feet in any direction from the motor vehicle
from which the sound emanates: or
         b.   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary.
      3.   Loudspeakers And Public-Address Systems: Using or operating any
loudspeaker, public-address system, or similar device between the hours of 8:00
p.m. and 9:00 a.m. of the following day such that the sound therefrom creates a
noise disturbance across a real property boundary.
      4.   Animals And Birds: Owning, possessing, or harboring any animal or
bird that frequently or for continued duration makes or creates a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary. Because of the
agricultural and rural heritage, tradition and source of family income
established in the City of Corinne for many decades and the desire to preserve
the same, this provision shall not apply to cattle, horses, mules, donkeys,
sheep, goats, pigs, or chickens.
      5.   Loading And Unloading: Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other
handling of boxes, crates, containers, cans, drums, refuse or similar objects
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day when the sound
therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary.
      6.   Motor Vehicles (including cars, trucks, tractors, motorcycles,
snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, and the like):
         a.   Operating or permitting the operation of any motor vehicle so out
of repair or in such a condition as to create a noise disturbance.
         b.   Operating or causing to be operated any motor vehicle not
equipped with a muffler or other sound dissipation device in good working order
and in constant operation. No person shall remove or render inoperative, or
cause to be removed or rendered inoperative, other than for purposes of
maintenance, repair, or replacement, any muffler or sound dissipation device on
a motor vehicle.
         c.   Spinning or squealing the tires of any motor vehicle or racing or
revving the engine of a motor vehicle.
         d.   Operating an engine brake (also known as compression or Jacob
brake) within the town limits, except for the aversion of imminent danger.
      7.   Explosives, Firearms, And Similar Devices: Using or firing of
explosives, firearms, or similar devices which create impulsive sound so as to
cause a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or on a public space
or right of way without first obtaining a special variance. Such permit need
not be obtained for the use of Class C common state approved fireworks from 9:
00 a.m. to 12:30 a.m. during the three days before, on the day of, and three
days following July 4, July 24, January 1, and the Chinese New Year.
      8.   Miscellaneous Sound Producers: Creating or emitting a noise which
constitutes a noise disturbance by any manner, including but not limited to a
horn, siren, bell, musical instrument, tool, engine, etc. (Ord. 23-01, 2023)
5-3-4: MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE NOISE LEVELS:
   A.   No person shall cause or permit noise to intrude into the property of
another person at a level which exceeds the maximum permissible noise levels
set forth below in this section. Noise measurement for the purposes of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter may be made at any point within the
receiving property.
   B.   The noise limitations established are as set forth in Table 1 after any
applicable adjustments provided for herein are applied. Sound level readings,
made with a sound level meter operating in slow response mode, which exceed the
limitations listed in Table 1 shall be considered prima facie evidence of noise
disturbance; however, use of a sound meter is not required for identification
of noise disturbances.
Table 1.
Maximum permissible noise levels according to zone and time period.
 
Zone of Receiving Time of Day or Night
Property
                 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 10:00 p.m. to 7:00
                                         p.m.               a.m.
Zone R            60 dBA                 53 dBA             48 dBA
Zone RA or CN     63 dBA                 58 dBA             53 dBA
 
      1.   Correction For Character Of Sound: For any source of sound which
emits a pure tone or impulsive sound, the maximum sound level limits set forth
in Table 1 shall be reduced by 5 dBA.
      2.   Noise limitations listed in Table 1 do not apply to licensed motor
vehicles operating on public rights of way. Noise levels measured at twenty-
five (25) feet from a vehicle operating on a public right of way shall be less
than a) 88 dBA if the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight of ten thousand
(10,000) pounds or more, or b) 80 dBA if the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight
of less than ten thousand (10,000) pounds. (Ord. 23-01, 2023)
5-3-5: MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE NOISE LEVELS:
   A.   No person shall cause or permit noise to intrude into the property of
another person at a level which exceeds the maximum ALLOWABLE noise levels set
forth below in this section. Noise measurement for the purposes of enforcing
the provisions of this chapter may be made at any point within the receiving
property.
   B.   The noise limitations established are as set forth in Table 2 after any
applicable adjustments provided for herein are applied. Sound level readings,
made with a sound level meter operating in slow response mode, which exceed the
limitations listed in Table 2 shall be considered prima facie evidence of noise
disturbance; however, use of a sound meter is not required for identification
of noise disturbances.
Table 2.
Maximum allowable noise levels according to time period in any residential
zone.
 
Time Period             Maximum Allowable Sound
7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 88 dBA
10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 80 dBA
   (Ord. 23-01, 2023)
5-3-6:  EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., provided that the sound created
by such activities, tools, or equipment is less than 85 dBA at the boundary of
or within a receiving residential property:
      1.   Noise from domestic power equipment, specifically irrigation pumps
when operated for the purpose of seasonal landscape irrigation as long as used
only at designated times and only between May - October.
      2.   Sounds originating from residential property relating to temporary
projects for the maintenance or repair of vehicles, homes, grounds, and
appurtenances, including but not limited to sounds from domestic power tools,
or lawn and garden equipment when operated with a muffler.
      3.   Sounds created by the installation or repair of essential utility
services.
      4.   Sounds originating from temporary construction sites as a result of
construction activity.
      5.   Sounds created by any activity, for no more than thirty (30) minutes
in any seventy-two (72)-hour period.
   B.   The following shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Sounds created by emergency equipment and work necessary in the
interests of law enforcement, or for health, safety, or welfare of the
community.
      2.   Sounds created by warning devices and alarms not operating
continuously for more than five (5) minutes, or bells, chimes, and carillons.
      3.   Sounds created by safety and protective devices where noise
suppression would defeat the intent of the device or is not economically
feasible.
      4.   Sounds from electrical substations and existing stationary equipment
used in the conveyance of water, wastewater, and natural gas by a utility.
      5.   Sounds created by non-stationary equipment being used for normal
agricultural purposes.
      6.   Sounds originating from irrigation pumps during the months of May
through October if pump is being used at the designated irrigation scheduled
time.
      7.   Sounds from snow blowers, snow throwers, and snowplows when operated
with a muffler for the purpose of snow removal, provided that the sound created
by such equipment is less than 85 dBA at the boundary of or within a receiving
residential property.
      8.   Sounds originating from officially sanctioned parades, sporting
events, and other public events.
      9.   Sounds created by un-amplified human voices, except when these are
deemed to be in violation of Corinne City Code
4-1-1 (Disturbing the Peace).
      10.   Sounds caused by natural phenomena.
   C.   Nothing in these exemptions is intended to preempt more restrictive
ordinances in other parts of the Corinne City Code.
   D.   Nothing in these exemptions is intended to preclude the town from
requiring installation of the best available noise abatement technology
consistent with economic feasibility. (Ord. 23-01, 2023)
5-3-7: WAIVERS AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES:
   A.   Waivers may be granted to any person from any particular requirement of
this chapter, if findings are made that immediate compliance with such
requirement cannot be achieved because of special    circumstances rendering
immediate compliance unreasonable in light of economic or physical factors,
encroachment upon an existing noise source, or because of non-availability of
feasible technology or control methods. Any such waiver or renewal thereof
shall be granted only for the minimum time period found to be necessary under
the facts and circumstances.
   B.   Waivers shall be issued only upon written application to the Corinne
Planning and Zoning Commission, and after providing information including but
not limited to:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The nature and location of the noise source for which such
application is made.
      3.   The reason for which the waiver is requested, including the hardship
that will result to the applicant or the public if the waiver is not granted.
      4.   The nature and intensity of noise that will occur during the period
of the waiver.
      5.   The section or sections of this chapter for which the waiver shall
apply.
      6.   A description of interim noise control measures to be taken by the
applicant to minimize noise and the impact occurring therefrom.
      7.   A specific schedule of noise control measures that shall be taken to
bring the source into compliance with this chapter within a reasonable time.
   C.   No waivers shall be issued for a period of more than thirty (30) days
except upon due notice to the public with opportunity to comment. Public
hearings may be held, when substantial public interest is shown, at the
discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   D.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may revoke the waiver if:
      1.   There is a violation of one or more conditions of the waiver; or
      2.   There is a material misrepresentation of the fact in the permit
application; or
      3.   There is a material change in any of the circumstances relied upon
by the Commission in granting the waiver.
   E.   Sources of noise, subject to this chapter, upon which construction
begins after the effective date hereof shall immediately comply with the
requirements of this chapter, except in extraordinary circumstances where
overriding considerations of public interest dictate the issuance of a waiver.
   F.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission in relation to the granting or denial of a waiver may appeal to the
Corinne City Council. (Ord. 23-01, 2023)
5-3-8:  ENFORCEMENT POLICY AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be undertaken only: a) upon receipt
of a complaint made by a person who owns the property or resides or is employed
on the property affected by the noise disturbance, except for parks and other
public property where any person can make a complaint; and b) after two (2)
adults of different households have witnessed the violation. Enforcement shall
be carried out by a law enforcement officer, the mayor, or the mayor's
designee.
   B.   Penalties:   
      1.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be first
issued a written warning.
      2.   Any person who willfully or knowingly violates any provision of this
chapter or violates any provision of this chapter within a one-year period
after receiving a warning shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be fined
for each offense a sum of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      3.   The business license of any person who violates any provision of
this chapter may be suspended, revoked, or not renewed, pursuant to the
provisions of this code if the violation is related to, caused by or results
from the conduct or operation of the business for which the town issues the
business license.
      4.   Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 23-01, 2023)
ARTICLE A. MINORS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Truancy
5-2A-2: Curfew
5-2A-1: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases used in this section shall
have the following meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context:
ASSIGNED SCHOOL LOCATION: The location where a student would be assigned,
registered or released to attend during compulsory school time when the class
or activity is in session, and the student is dealing with school or personal
business.
AUTHORIZATION: A permission slip given by a school authority to excuse a
student from being in the usual assigned school location in accordance with
school policy, or a note from the parent or guardian giving permission for the
student to be absent from class. The permission slip must be in the immediate
possession of the student whenever not at the expected school location.
COMPULSORY SCHOOL AGE MINOR: A person not less than six (6) nor more than
eighteen (18) years of age that is not exempted and must be attending a public
or regularly established private school during the school year of the district
in which the minor resides pursuant to the Utah compulsory education
requirements, Utah Code Annotated 53A-11-101 et seq.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPEN CAMPUS: When a compulsory school age minor is allowed by school officials
to leave school for lunch purposes.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the members or
partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, the
common areas of schools, hospitals, office and commercial buildings, public
transit buses and property, and apartment houses.
REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death,
that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
TRUANCY HOURS: Those hours in which a compulsory school age youth should be
attending school in the district or jurisdiction in which the student attends
school.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   Compulsory School Age Minor: A compulsory school age minor commits
an offense if he or she remains in any public place, is not in his assigned
location at school, or is on the premises of any establishment within the town
limits during truancy hours.
      2.   Parent Or Guardian: A parent or guardian of a minor commits an
offense if he or she knowingly permits, aids, encourages or allows a compulsory
school age minor, or minor, to remain in any public place or on the premises of
any establishment within the town during truancy hours.
      3.   Generally: Any person commits an offense if he or she engages in any
conduct for the purpose of, or resulting in inducing any compulsory school age
minor to leave or be absent from said compulsory school age minor's assigned
school location during truancy hours.
   C.   Defenses To Prosecution:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this section
that the compulsory school age minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         b.   Involved in an emergency;
         c.   Following school policy regarding open campus for lunch, off
campus school approved classes and activities, or any other legitimate school
sanctioned off campus function, and has on his/her person legal authorization
of permission by the school or his/her parent or guardian; or
         d.   Married or has been married or has disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      2.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B1 of this section
that the parent or guardian of a compulsory school age minor has met in
cooperation with the proper school authorities within fourteen (14) days of
notification in response to such certified letter from the court notifying them
that their child has received a truancy citation.
      3.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B3 of this section
that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment, or owner of a private
residence, promptly notified the police department that a compulsory school age
minor was present on their premises during truancy hours and refused to leave.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
an identified police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason
for going in the public place. Citations shall direct the apparent offender to
either the juvenile court or the appropriate justice court upon the apparent
offender's signature and promise to appear. If the apparent offender fails to
appear, the court will notify the parent or guardian of a compulsory school age
minor by certified letter that a truancy citation has been issued to said minor
and that the minor's appearance is required under either the Utah rules of
juvenile procedure, or the Utah rules of criminal procedure.
   E.   Penalty: Violation of this section is an infraction. A person who
violates a provision of this section is guilty of a separate offense for each
day or part of a day during which the violation is committed, continued or
permitted. Each offense of a minor, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00), not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). A third
offense by an adult is subject to the provisions of state law. (Ord. 04-06, 10-
5-2004)
5-2A-2: CURFEW:
   A.   It is unlawful for any minor under fourteen (14) years of age to remain
or loiter on any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the town
between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   B.   It is unlawful for any minor between the ages of fourteen (14) years of
age up to eighteen (18) years of age to remain or loiter on any of the
sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the town between twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   C.   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having legal
care or custody of any minor dealt with respectively in subsections A and B of
this section to allow or permit any such minor to remain or loiter on any of
the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the town within the times
provided in subsections A and B of this section respectively, except as
provided in subsection D of this section.
   D.   The provisions of subsections A, B and C of this section shall not
apply where the minors dealt with respectively in subsections A and B of this
section are:
      1.   Married;
      2.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of such minor;
      3.   Returning home from, going to or being in attendance at any
religious or school function, organized dance, theater, sports event or other
such association activity; provided, however, that going to or from such
activity shall be by a direct route and within a reasonable time of the
commencement or termination of such event;
      4.   Engaged in a legitimate emergency errand;
      5.   Engaged in legitimate employment and can produce evidence of such
employment. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Parking Regulations Generally
6-1-1: PARKING REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
   A.   Parallel Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle
upon the state highway where the same passes through the town, unless said
vehicle is parked off of the highway and parallel thereto.
   B.   Double Parking Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to park,
or cause to be parked, a vehicle alongside of another vehicle that has already
been parked parallel, as required by subsection A of this section, so as to be
parked in a position commonly called "double parking".
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 51-A, 7-6-1959; amd. 2007 Code)
January 26,CHAPTER 2
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES, OTHER THAN SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Title
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Designation Of Off Highway Vehicle (OHV) Routes
6-2-4: Operation Restrictions
6-2-5: State Registration Required
6-2-6: Speed Limits And Traffic Laws
6-2-7: Protective Headgear, Equipment Requirements
6-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES ACT OF CORINNE CITY.
The rules and regulations of title 41, chapter 22 of the Utah Code Annotated
1953, as applied to all off highway vehicles other than snowmobiles, shall
constitute the town ordinance for governing off highway vehicles. (Ord. 07-03,
5-15-2007)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions shall be as stated in Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapter 22.
(Ord. 07-03, 5-15-2007)
6-2-3: DESIGNATION OF OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV) ROUTES:
All town streets and roads within the town limits are allowable routes for
OHVs, except roadways belonging to the state. (Ord. 07-03, 5-15-2007)
6-2-4: OPERATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Persons Under Sixteen Years Of Age:
      1.   A person under eight (8) years of age may not operate and an owner
may not give another person who is under eight (8) years of age permission to
operate an off highway vehicle on any public land, trail, street or highway of
the town.
      2.   No person under sixteen (16) years of age may operate and no owner
may give permission to a person under the age of sixteen (16) to operate an off
highway vehicle on the designated streets of the town unless such person is
under the direct visual supervision of an adult eighteen (18) years of age or
older holding a valid driver's license. The violation of this provision shall
be punishable as an infraction, with a maximum fine of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per offense. (Ord. 07-03, 5-15-2007)
   B.   Persons Sixteen Years Of Age And Older: No person sixteen (16) years or
older shall operate an off highway vehicle on the designated streets of the
town unless such person has a valid driver's license. The violation of this
provision shall be punishable as a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-03, 5-15-2007; amd. 2007 Code)
6-2-5: STATE REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
All OHVs operated on the streets and roads of the town must be properly
registered and display decals as required by Utah Code Annotated title 41,
chapter 22. OHVs used for farming must have an "implement of husbandry
sticker", as required by Utah Code Annotated section 41-22-5.5. The violation
of this provision shall be punishable as a class C misdemeanor, and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-03, 5-15-2007; amd. 2007 Code)
6-2-6: SPEED LIMITS AND TRAFFIC LAWS:
The maximum speed for off highway vehicles shall be as posted for general motor
vehicular traffic and the operation of off highway vehicles shall otherwise be
in accordance with all applicable motor vehicle laws and regulations. The
violation of this provision shall be punishable consistent with speed and
traffic violations for general motor vehicles. (Ord. 07-03, 5-15-2007)
6-2-7: PROTECTIVE HEADGEAR, EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Persons Under Eighteen: A person under the age of eighteen (18) may not
operate or ride on all-terrain type I vehicles, snowmobiles or motorcycles on
public land unless the person is wearing a properly fitted and fastened United
States department of transportation safety rated protective headgear designed
for motorized vehicle use.
   B.   Owner, Other Person Not To Give Permission: The owner of an off highway
vehicle or any other person may not give permission to a person who is under
eighteen (18) years of age to operate or ride on an off highway vehicle in
violation of subsection A of this section.
   C.   Exemptions: An operator and passengers of off highway implements of
husbandry operated in the manner prescribed by Utah Code Annotated sections 41-
22-5.5(3) and (4) are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   D.   Noise Control; Spark Arrester: An adequate noise control device and
approved spark arrester device is required by all OHVs operated on town streets
and roadways. Expansion chambers will not be allowed.
   E.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violations of this section is guilty
of an infraction and shall be fined not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) per
offense. (Ord. 07-03, 5-15-2007)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Permit Required
7-1-3: Application For Permit
7-1-4: Emergency Work
7-1-5: Fee For Permit
7-1-6: Contents Of Permit; Duration And Extensions
7-1-7: Transfer Or Assignment Of Permit
7-1-8: Specifications, Standards, Traffic Control; Site Permittee
Identification
7-1-9: Other Highway Permits
7-1-10: Relocation Of Structures In Public Ways
7-1-11: Impact On Existing Improvements
7-1-12: Restoration Of Public Property
7-1-13: Insurance Requirements
7-1-14: Bond Requirements
7-1-15: Hold Harmless Agreement; Limitations On Town Liability
7-1-16: Work Without Permit
7-1-17: Failure To Comply; Default In Performance
7-1-18: Failure To Conform To Design Standards
7-1-19: Appeal Of Suspension, Revocation Or Stop Order
7-1-20: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
7-1-21: Conflict With Governing Provisions
7-1-22: Construed According To State Law
7-1-23: Penalty
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in the town in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
CITY: Corinne, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
CONTRACTOR: The company that is doing the excavation work.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes an immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility or public services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR DESIGN STANDARDS:
The latest version of the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards or criteria published or adopted by the town engineer.
EXPOSES: Causes by accident or on purpose the utility to be uncovered whether
damaged or not.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet town engineer
specifications, or which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition
within the duration of the warranty period. Failure may be settlement of
surfaces, deterioration of materials, or other surface irregularities.
Measurement of failure shall be further defined in the engineering regulations.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the right of way.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
PERMITTEE: Any person who has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
provider, corporation, company, organization or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge
the gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property such as drainage, spring or storm
water, or condensate into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee or
public utility company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
state public service commission, or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone or other utility product or services for use by
the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public rights of way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public
highways, public alleys and public drainageways. It does not, however, include
utility easements not within public ways of the town.
RESELLER: Any person that provides service over a system for which a separate
charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying system
used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway or ditch installed in a right
of way or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This term
does not include private drain lines.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider located in the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
TOWN: Corinne City, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
TOWN ENGINEER: The town engineer or designee.
ULTAP: Utah local technical assistance program.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: Means and includes the restoring of the original ground
or paved hard surface area to comply with engineering regulations, and
includes, but is not limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction and
stabilization, paving and other work necessary to place the site in acceptable
condition following the conclusion of the work, or the expiration or revocation
of the permit. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the
town, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the town to issue a
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the town, the
following:
   A.   Facilities Or Structures: The capacity of the public way to accommodate
the facilities or structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   B.   Cables, Conduits, Pipes: The capacity of the public way to accommodate
multiple wires in addition to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or
structures of other users of the public way, such as electrical power,
telephone, gas, sewer and water;
   C.   Damage Or Disruption: The damage or disruption, if any, of public or
private facilities, improvements or landscaping previously existing in the
public way;
   D.   Public Interest: The public interest in minimizing the cost and
disruption of construction from numerous excavations of the public way;
   E.   Town Engineer Or Designee By Town Council: The designee may vary on a
project to project basis and will be named on the permit;
   F.   Exceptions:
      1.   Maintenance: General maintenance such as mowing, cleaning or
repairing of open ditches, removal or repair of ruts, maintenance of driveways
and trimming of trees and shrubs. These tasks shall not require a permit if
there is no danger of any utilities being disturbed. The town worker or the
council person in charge of roads should be consulted for excavations.
      2.   Sprinkler Heads And Pipes: No sprinkler heads or piping will be
allowed in the public way along a town roadway. Therefore, no permit will be
issued and no installation of such will be allowed. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Form Of Permit; Applicant: Application for a permit shall be filed with
the town engineer on a form or forms to be furnished by the town. Property
owners and/or tenants for whom work is being done shall be responsible for
obtaining the permits; provided, however, contractors may obtain the permit in
the contractor's name.
   B.   Inspection Required: Any excavation that exposes town owned utilities
shall require inspection by appointed town personnel and a picture taken of
exposed utility after being exposed and before being backfilled. During this
inspection, the inspector shall measure the depth of the utility; make a note
of the size and material used for the utility, and take adequate measurements
and notes so as to be able to relocate the spot easily in the future. These
notes shall be transposed to a set of plans in town hall and be listed on the
ULTAP and other software in use. Not having this inspection will require the
town's utility to be reexposed at the contractor's expense.
   C.   Ongoing Excavations: Ongoing excavations (more than 1 workday) may
require an inspector assigned to the project and expense to be the
responsibility of the excavation contractor or permit applicant. This is to be
determined by the town council and the town engineer before the start of
excavation and the permit shall state that an inspector may be needed and
inspections of exposed utilities are required. The cost of the inspections and
the inspector shall be set according to the job length or the time required.
The cost will be set by the town council and the town engineer. The cost of the
inspections and/or the inspector shall be the responsibility of the applicant
for the excavation permit.
   D.   Backfill Requirements: Backfill requirements in nontraffic areas shall
be determined by the town engineer.
   E.   Eligible Persons: No person shall be eligible to apply for or receive
permits to do work within the public ways of the town, save and except the
following:
      1.   Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
      2.   Providers;
      3.   Property owners installing, replacing or maintaining less than five
hundred (500) square feet or one hundred (100) linear feet of sidewalk, curb
and gutter, or driveway approach, or other work approved by the town engineer,
upon a portion of the public way adjacent to their residence; or
      4.   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, awnings, and painting or cleaning of
buildings or signboards or other structures.
   F.   Denial Based On Past Performance: The town engineer may deny the
issuance of permits to contractors, utility companies or other permit
applicants who have shown by past performance that in the opinion of the town
engineer they will not consistently conform to the engineering regulations,
specifications, design standards or the requirements of this chapter.
   G.   Plans May Be Required: When necessary, in the judgment of the town
engineer, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to existing
or proposed facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether the work
proposed complies with the engineering regulations, construction specifications
and design standards, the town engineer may require the filing of engineering
plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in sufficient
detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance, or both, and
the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and sketches are
filed and approved.
   H.   Approval, Permit Required Prior To Commencement: It shall be unlawful
for any person to commence work upon any public way until the town engineer has
approved the application and until a permit has been issued for such work,
except as specifically approved to the contrary in this chapter.
   I.   Appeal Of Disapproval Or Denial: The disapproval or denial of an
application by the town engineer may be appealed by the applicant to the board
of adjustment by filing of a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of
the action of the town engineer. The board of adjustment shall hear such
appeal, if written request therefor be timely filed, as soon as practicable,
and render its decision within two (2) weeks following notice of such appeal.
   J.   Limitation Of Town Engineer Authority: When approving or disapproving
work within any public way or permits therefor, in the inspection of such work;
in reviewing plans, sketches or specifications; and generally in the exercise
of the authority conferred upon him/her by the chapter, the town engineer shall
act in such manner as to preserve and protect the public way and the use
thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the actions or inaction of
permittees and applicants or other persons which have no relationship to the
use, preservation or protection of the public way.
   K.   Routine Maintenance Work Exempt: It shall be lawful for a city, county,
state, federal or other government employee to perform routine maintenance
work, without first having obtained a permit therefor.
   L.   Hand Digging And Landscaping: A permit is not required from the town
engineer for hand digging excavations for repair of sprinkler systems and
landscaping within the nonpaved areas of the public way; however, conformance
to all town specifications is required. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-4: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Authorized: Any person maintaining pipes, lines or facilities in the
public way may proceed with work upon existing facilities without a permit when
emergency circumstances demand the work to be done immediately, provided a
permit could not reasonably and practicably have been obtained beforehand.
   B.   During Business Hours: In the event that emergency work is commenced on
or within any public way of the town during regular business hours, the town
engineer shall be notified within one-half (1/2) hour from the time the work is
commenced. The person commencing and conducting such work shall take all
necessary safety precautions for the protection of the public and the direction
and control of traffic, and shall ensure that work is accomplished according to
town engineering regulations, the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices",
and other applicable laws, regulations or generally recognized practices in the
industry.
   C.   Outside Business Hours: Any person commencing emergency work in the
public way during other than business hours without a permit, shall immediately
thereafter apply for a permit or give notice during the first hour of the first
regular business day on which the town offices are open for business after such
work is commenced. A permit for such emergency work may be issued which shall
be retroactive to the date when the work was begun, at the discretion of the
town engineer.
   D.   Additional Information: See statements in subsection 7-1-3B of this
chapter. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-5: FEE FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Required: The town shall charge and the permittee shall pay upon
issuance of the permit, fees for costs associated with the work performed under
the permit as outlined in the consolidated fee schedule. Such costs could
include costs for reviewing the project and issuing the permit, inspections of
the project, deterioration of the public way or diminution of the useful life
of the public way, and other costs to the town associated with the work to be
done under the permit. All costs shall be assessed in a nondiscriminatory
manner.
   B.   Waiver: The town engineer may waive permit fees or penalties, or
portion thereof, provided for in this chapter, when he/she determines that such
permit fee or penalty:
      1.   Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of housing for persons
whose income is below the median income level for the town; or
      2.   Pertains to an encroachment on the public way involving a
beautification project which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth
in the town strategic plan, master plan or other official documents, including
decorative street lighting, building facade lighting, flower and planter boxes,
and landscaping.
   C.   Additional Charges: Additional charges to cover the reasonable cost and
expenses of any required engineering review, inspection and work site
restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by the town to each
permittee, in addition to the permit fee. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-6: CONTENTS OF PERMIT; DURATION AND EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Start And Completion Date: Each permit application shall state the
starting date and estimated completion date. Work shall be completed within
five (5) days from the starting date or as determined by the town engineer.
Such determination shall be based upon factors reasonably related to the work
to be performed under the permit. Such factors may include, in addition to
other factors related to the work to be performed, the following:
      1.   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      2.   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public way affected by the work;
      3.   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by
the work;
      4.   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed, as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public way by the public;
      5.   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
town.
The town engineer shall be notified by the permittee of commencement of the
work within twenty four (24) hours prior to commencing work. The permit shall
be valid for the time period specified in the permit.
   B.   Extension For Good Cause:
      1.   If the work is not completed during such period, prior to the
expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the town engineer for an
additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by the town engineer
for good cause shown.
      2.   The length of the extension requested by the permittee shall be
subject to the approval of the town engineer. No extension shall be made that
allows work to be completed in the winter period without payment of winter
fees. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-7: TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF PERMIT:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work
to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of the
permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work under
the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under said permit. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-8: SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS, TRAFFIC CONTROL; SITE PERMITTEE
IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Conformance: The work performed in the public way shall conform to the
requirements of the engineering regulations, design standards, construction
specifications and traffic control regulations of the town, copies of which
shall be available from the town engineer, kept on file in the office of the
town recorder and be open to public inspection during office hours.
   B.   Signage: Where a job site is left unattended before completion of the
work, signage with minimum two inch (2") high letters shall be attached to a
barricade or otherwise posted at the site, indicating the permittee's name, or
company name, telephone number, and after hours telephone number.
   C.   Public Protection: All excavations shall be conducted in a manner
resulting in a minimum amount of interference or interruption of street or
pedestrian traffic. Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on the
public way shall be minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades
and/or other structures will be available and used where necessary to prevent
accidents involving property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all
of the permittee's equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has
been backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where
backfilling and resurfacing is to be done by the town; in which case the
barricades, together with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain
in place until the backfill work is actually commenced by the town. From sunset
to sunrise, all barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate
signal lights, torches, etc. The police department and fire department shall be
notified at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any planned excavation
requiring street closure or traffic detour. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-9: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Not Required: Holders of permits for work on highways owned or
under the jurisdiction of other government entities, but located within the
town limits, shall not be required to obtain permits from the town under the
provisions of this chapter, unless the work extends beyond the back side of the
curb, or beyond any other designated jurisdictional boundary. Any town permit
shall not be construed to permit or allow work on a county road or a state
highway within the town without an applicable county or state permit.
   B.   Limitation Of Authority To Regulate: The town engineer, in his or her
discretion, shall have the right and authority to regulate work under permits
issued by other governmental entities with respect to hours and days of work,
and measures required to be taken by the permittee of said governmental entity
for the protection of traffic and safety of persons and property.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
impose any duty, implied or expressed, on the town or its employees, officers,
agents or assigns, relative to the protection of traffic and safety of persons
or property, arising out of the issuance of any permit issued by government
entities other than the town, or arising out of any work performed on any
public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the town. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-10: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   When Required: The town engineer may direct any person owning or
maintaining facilities or structures in the public way to alter, modify or
relocate such facilities or structures as the town engineer may require as set
forth herein. Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults,
trash receptacles and overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone,
telecommunication and communication facilities shall specifically be subject to
such directives. The person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
shall, at their own cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the
town, promptly protect, or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or
structures, or part thereof, as directed by the town. In the event that such
person refuses or neglects to conform to the directive of the town, the town
shall have the right to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of
the facilities or structures without liability to such person. Such person
shall pay to the town all costs incurred by the town in connection with such
work performed by the town, including also, design, engineering, construction,
materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Basis For Directive: Any directive by the town engineer shall be based
upon any of the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the town engineer to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a "nuisance", as defined under
state statute;
      3.   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5.   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
   C.   Police Power: Any directive of the town engineer under this section
shall be under and consistent with the town police power. Unless an emergency
condition exists, the town engineer shall make a good faith effort to consult
with the person regarding any condition that may result in a removal or
relocation of facilities in the public way to consider possible avoidance or
minimization of removal or relocation requirements, and provide the directive
far enough in advance of the required removal or relocation to allow the person
a reasonable opportunity to plan and minimize cost associated with the required
removal or relocation.
   D.   Exception: This obligation does not apply to facilities or structures
originally located on private property pursuant to a private easement, which
property was later incorporated into the public way, if that prior private
easement grants a superior vested right.
   E.   Failure To Comply; Penalty: Any person owning or maintaining facilities
or structures in the public way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such
facilities or structures upon notice to do so by the town engineer shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall
be borne by the person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
involved.
   F.   Emergency Work: The town may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or
other emergency, as determined by the town in its reasonable discretion, cut or
move any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or under the public
way, in which event the town shall not be liable therefor to a person. The town
shall notify a person in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as
soon as possible and in no case later than the next business day following any
action taken under this subsection. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-11: IMPACT ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Temporary Sidewalks: If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by
excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or
provided. Said temporary improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users, and consistent with town standards for such.
   B.   Temporary Gravel Surfaces: Where excavations are made in paved areas,
the surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such time
as the permanent repairs are completed.
   C.   Disturbance Of Property:
      1.   At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the town, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
      2.   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by the permittee. Further, a
permittee shall reimburse a property owner or the town for any actual damage
caused by the permittee, its subcontractor, or its independent contractor, in
connection with the disturbance of such property. However, nothing in this
subsection shall require the permittee to pay a subscriber or private property
owner when that subscriber or private property owner requests that the
permittee remove, replace or relocate improvements associated with the service
provided by the permittee to the property owner and when the permittee
exercises due care in the performance of that service, or when the subscriber
or private property owner provided false information to the permittee on which
the permittee relied to its detriment.
   D.   Acts Specifically Included: Examples of types of acts specifically
included in this section are the following:
      1.   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways or
fences, or to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate equipment,
cable or other appurtenances of the permittee;
      2.   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      3.   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit or the like) in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      4.   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   E.   Interruption Of Water Flow: Existing drainage channels, such as gutters
or ditches, shall be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow
will not be interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise interrupt
flow of the drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be submitted
for approval by the town engineer prior to the blockage of the channel.
   F.   Applicable To Subcontractors: The requirements imposed upon the
permittee extend to any subcontractor or independent contractor that the
permittee might employ to perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   G.   Exception For Removal Of Permanent Structures Placed On Right Of Way:
The requirements of this section shall not apply to the removal by a permittee
of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in a public way, unless
such property owner has received prior written permission from the town
granting the property owner the right to install a permanent structure on a
public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the office of the
county recorder. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-12: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface
of any public way to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the
engineering regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by the
town and shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the permit,
unless additional time is granted in writing by the department.
   B.   Request For Restoration By Town: At its option, the permittee doing the
actual excavation work may request that the town restore the surface to its
original condition. The fee for such resurfacing shall be determined by the
town engineer in accordance with its reasonable costs for such work and shall
be charged to the person, firm or corporation making the excavation. Payment
for said work shall be received by the town prior to the release of the bond.
(Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-13: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Coverage Required: Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall
furnish to the town evidence that such applicant has a comprehensive general
liability and property damage policy that includes contractual liability
coverage endorsed with the following limits and provisions, or with such
alternative limits and provisions as may be approved by the town:
      1.   A minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single
limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage,
and not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to the permit, or the general
aggregate limit shall be two (2) times the required occurrence limit. The
coverage shall be in the nature of broad form commercial general liability
coverage. The town attorney may increase or decrease minimum insurance limits,
depending on the potential liability of any project.
      2.   All policies shall include the town, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns, as insureds. Any reference to the
"town" shall include the town, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      3.   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the town, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the town, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      4.   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not affect coverage provided to the town, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      5.   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      6.   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the town, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      7.   The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have no
recourse against the town for payment of any premiums due or for any
assessments under any form of any policy.
      8.   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested sent to the town.
      9.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend
the town and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by the permittee, his/her subcontractor or agent,
whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right of way
has been opened to public travel.
      10.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the town, and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work
pursuant to the permit including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and right of way is opened for public
use.
   B.   Carrier Rating: Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM Best
rating of no less than an A carrier, with a rating of "7" or higher.
   C.   Certificates And Endorsements: The permittee shall furnish the town
with certificates of insurance and original endorsements affecting coverage
required by the permit. The certificates and endorsements for each insurance
policy are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage
on its behalf. The town expressly reserves the right to require complete,
certified copies of all required insurance policies at any time. Consequently,
the permittee shall be prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of
the permit.
   D.   Unsatisfactory Policies: If any of the required policies are, or at any
time become, unsatisfactory to the town as to form or substance, or if a
company issuing any such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to
the town, the permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to
the town for approval, and thereafter submit verification of coverage as
required by the town. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such
insurance as provided herein, the town may declare the permit to be in default
and pursue any and all remedies the town may have at law or in equity,
including those actions outlined in this chapter.
   E.   Subcontractors Included: The permittee shall include all subcontractors
as insured under its policies or shall furnish separate certificates and
endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be
subject to all of the requirements stated herein.
   F.   Deductibles And Retentions: Any deductibles or self- insured retentions
shall be declared to and approved by the town. At the option of the town,
either the insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured
retentions as respects the town, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers or assigns, or the permittee shall procure a bond, in a form
acceptable to the town, guaranteeing payment of losses and related
investigations, claim administration and defense expenses.
   G.   Homeowner's Insurance: A property owner performing work adjacent to
his/her residence may submit proof of a homeowner's insurance policy in lieu of
the insurance requirements of this section.
   H.   Relief Of Obligation: A provider may be relieved of the obligation of
submitting certificates of insurance under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         a.   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter, or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
         b.   Said coverage provides to the town the same scope of coverage
that would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this
chapter; or
      2.   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
to be performed by the town, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the town and the applicant by separate
agreement. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-14: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required: Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant, before
being issued a permit, shall provide the town with an acceptable security (this
may include a corporate surety bond, cash bond or letter of credit, as
determined by the town) in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) to
guarantee faithful performance of the work authorized by a permit granted
pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security required may be increased
or decreased at the discretion of the town engineer whenever it appears that
the amount and cost of the work to be performed, and not satisfactorily
completed, may vary from the amount of security otherwise required under this
chapter. The form of the security and the entity issuing the security shall be
subject to the approval of the town attorney.
   B.   Public Utilities Franchise: Public utilities franchised by the town
shall not be required to file any security if such requirement is expressly
waived in the franchise documents.
   C.   Conditions Of Security: The security required by this section shall be
conditioned as follows:
      1.   The permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the town
ordinances and regulations, specifications and standards promulgated by the
town relative to work in the public way, and respond to the town in damages for
failure to conform therewith;
      2.   After work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with diligence
and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and restore the public way
to construction specifications, so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3.   The permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a
period of two (2) years from completion of such work, with reasonable wear and
tear excepted; and
      4.   Unless authorized by the town engineer on the permit, all paving,
resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or collector streets
shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained herein within three
(3) calendar days, and within seven (7) calendar days from the time the
excavation commences on all other streets, except as provided for during
excavation in winter or during weather conditions which do not allow paving
according to engineering regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must be
provided. In all excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be made
immediately after backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is
expected to exceed the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed
construction schedule for approval. The schedule will address means and methods
to minimize traffic disruption and complete the construction as soon as
reasonably possible. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-15: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON TOWN LIABILITY:
   A.   The permittee agrees to save the town, its officers, employees and
agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and liabilities which may
accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work performed under the
permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under this chapter shall
constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this section.
   B.   This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the town, its
officers, employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for damages to
any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work within the
public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter; nor shall the
town, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or assigns thereof
be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit, or the approval of
any work. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-16: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT:
   A.   Stop Order: A stop order may be issued by the town engineer, town
worker or town official directed to any person or persons doing or causing any
work to be done in the public way without a permit. The abutting property owner
shall be responsible for causing work to be done.
   B.   Fee: Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work,
where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction
shall apply. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-17: FAILURE TO COMPLY; DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE:
   A.   Violations: Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop order
issued by the town engineer, after notice to the permittee for:
      1.   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security or of any
provision of this chapter;
      2.   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the town or law
relating to the work; or
      3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute, or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B.   Immediate Effect Upon Notice: A suspension or revocation by the town
engineer, and a stop order, shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by
the town engineer and notice to the person performing the work in the public
way. Notice to the person performing the work shall be accomplished when the
town engineer has posted a stop work order at the location of the work and
written notice has been mailed, return receipt requested, to the address
indicated by the permittee on the permit.
   C.   Notice Of Default: Whenever the town engineer finds that a default has
occurred in the performance of any term or condition of the permit, written
notice thereof may be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if
there is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done, the
estimated cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by the town engineer to
be reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
   D.   Performance Of Work By Town: In the event that the surety (or
principal), within a reasonable time following the giving of such notice
(taking into consideration the exigencies of the situation, the nature of the
work, the requirements of public safety and for the protection of persons and
property), fails either to commence and cause the required work to be performed
with due diligence, or to indemnify the town for the cost of doing the work, as
set forth in the notice, the town may perform the work, at the discretion of
the town engineer, with town forces or contract forces, or both, and suit may
be commenced by the town attorney against the contractor and bonding company
and such other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to
the town, including attorney fees, on account thereof. In the event that cash
has been deposited, the cost of performing the work may be charged against the
amount deposited, and suit brought for the balance due, if any. (Ord. 10-02, 2-
2-2010)
7-1-18: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the town
engineer may:
   A.   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B.   Issue a stop order;
   C.   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D.   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E.   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-19: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR STOP ORDER:
Any suspension, revocation or stop order by the town engineer may be appealed
by the permittee to the board of adjustment by filing a written notice of
appeal within ten (10) days of the action of the town engineer. The board of
adjustment shall hear such appeal, if written request therefor be timely filed,
as soon as practicable, and render their decision within a reasonable time
following filing of notice of appeal. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-20: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, to extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-21: CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-22: CONSTRUED ACCORDING TO STATE LAW:
This chapter and any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the state.
(Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
7-1-23: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation exists shall be a separate offense.
No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 10-02, 2-2-2010)
CHAPTER 2
OBSTRUCTIONS OF PUBLIC STREETS AND PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Regulations And Requirements
7-2-3: Notice To Remove
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
OBSTRUCTION: Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
are deleterious or injurious, noxious or unsightly, which includes, but is not
limited to, keeping or depositing on, or scattering over the premises any of
the following:
   A.   Lumber, junk, trash, or debris.
   B.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as furniture,
stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
   C.   Abandoned, discarded or unused vehicles, trucks or trailers.
STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY: Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped and
junked machinery, implements, equipment or personal property of any kind which
is no longer safely usable for the purpose for which it was manufactured, for a
period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed junkyards) within this
town, is hereby declared to be an obstruction and dangerous to the public
safety. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
7-2-2: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Obstructions Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to put,
place or leave upon any public street, parking lot or sidewalk, or any property
owner to suffer or permit to remain upon or leave such obstruction on a public
street, parking lot or public property for more than seventy two (72) hours,
except as noted in subsection B of this section, any automobile, lumber, wood,
fencing or other building material.
   B.   October Through May: It shall be unlawful for any person(s) or property
owner to put, place or leave upon any public street any automobile, lumber,
wood, fencing, other building material or any obstruction, for the months of
October through May.
   C.   Duty Of Maintenance Of Private Property: No person owning, leasing,
occupying or having charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any
obstruction thereon, nor shall any such person keep or maintain such premises
in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of the other property
in the neighborhood in which such premises are located. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
7-2-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
Any obstruction, as set forth in this chapter, which shall have remained on the
public street, parking lot, sidewalk or public property for more than twenty
four (24) hours after notice of the violation of this chapter shall have been
given to the owner of such obstruction by attaching a copy of such notice to
the obstruction or delivered to the property owner, will be deemed abandoned
and worthless, and the town may at its option remove such obstruction at the
expense of the owner thereof or at the expense of the town without liability
for such removal to any such owner. (Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Control And Supervision Of System
8-1-2: Water Connections
8-1-3: Application For Connection; Conditions
8-1-4: Fees, Rates And Charges
8-1-5: Water Service Billings And Payment
8-1-6: Regulation Of Water Use
8-1-7: Fire Hydrants
8-1-8: Nonliability Of Town
8-1-9: Penalty
8-1-1: CONTROL AND SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM:
The control and supervision of the construction, repair and maintenance of the
culinary water system shall be under the direction of the Corinne City council,
which shall appoint a water superintendent and prescribe his duties and
responsibilities. (Ord. 11-02, 11-1-2011)
8-1-2: WATER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Meter Required: No connection to the Corinne City culinary water system
shall be made without a water meter installed by or under the direction of
Corinne City in compliance with this chapter. All connections are to be
authorized by the town council. Individuals will be offered the opportunity to
purchase a water and meter connection on a "first come, first serve" basis, and
only on the lines capable of providing the required flow. In the event that
there are more requests for water connections than available water connections,
a waiting list will be used and the following conditions will apply.
Individuals purchasing a tap will be given ninety (90) days to pay in full. If
not paid in full at the end of the ninety (90) day agreement, their rights will
be revoked and passed to the next individual on a first come, first serve
basis.
   B.   Size Of Connections: All connections shall be three- fourths inch (3/
4") line for single dwellings and as specifically authorized by the Corinne
City council for commercial, school, church or other use. (Ord. 11-02, 11-1-
2011)
8-1-3: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION; CONDITIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation within the municipal boundaries of Corinne City
who desires a culinary water connection to the water mains of Corinne City
shall make application therefor in writing and furnish to Corinne City a
statement of the distance from the applicant's property line to the nearest
point where said water connection can be made to Corinne City lines, together
with necessary easements for the running of such connecting line. Said
applicant shall pay to Corinne City, in advance, a water connection fee, set by
the impact fee ordinance. Upon receipt of said water connection fee and the
estimated cost as hereinabove set forth, Corinne City shall cause to be
constructed no more than one hundred feet (100') of the said water connecting
line, including the meter, valves, and other hardware to a point near
applicant's property line. The additional cost of lines over one hundred feet
(100') shall be borne by said applicant. Dwelling construction must begin one
hundred twenty (120) days after the water connection is approved on any
connections released after the signing of the ordinance codified herein. If
construction has not begun after one hundred twenty (120) days, any monies paid
to Corinne City are subject to forfeiture and the right to the water tap may be
revoked. In addition, construction must be completed within one hundred eighty
(180) days of construction start or the same penalty as not beginning
construction applies. Extensions may be granted by the town council. (Ord. 11-
02, 11-1-2011)
8-1-4: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
Water service fees shall be as established from time to time by resolution of
the town council. See Corinne City fee schedule. (Ord. 11-02, 11-1-2011)
8-1-5: WATER SERVICE BILLINGS AND PAYMENT:
The town shall bill each water user, property owner or responsible agent, each
calendar month for the water actually used or estimated to be used and adjusted
by actual meter readings. The billing for said water service may be combined
with town sewer service, irrigation (annually) and garbage collection charges 1
and one bill only rendered to the property occupant, unless the property is
unoccupied, then the owner shall be billed. No matter who is billed the
property owner shall be responsible for any unpaid services including water,
sewer, irrigation, garbage and any and all fees pertaining to the location.
Utility payments are due on the fifteenth day of each month. If payment has not
been received by the fifteenth day of the month, a delinquent fee will be
automatically added to the account and such account will be considered to be in
shutoff status. If the full bill is not paid by nine thirty o'clock (9:30) A.M.
the twentieth day of the second month, the account will be charged a shutoff
fee and the water meter will be turned off. Upon receiving full payment, the
account will be reinstated and the water meter will be turned on by five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. that same day. (If the fifteenth or twentieth day of the
month falls on a Saturday or a Sunday, the following Monday will be treated as
the fifteenth or twentieth day of the month.) If it is determined that the
meter was tampered with while in shutoff status without seeking approval from a
town employee or member of the town council, a tampering fee will be charged
and the water meter may be removed. If the water meter is removed, a
reconnection fee must be paid prior to reinstatement of water service. If the
account remains delinquent for ninety (90) days from the due date, the water
connection may be revoked. The town council may work out other payment
arrangements for a water user if deemed necessary, through a scheduled
appointment at a regular town council meeting. (Ord. 11-02, 11-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-2-3 of this code.
8-1-6: REGULATION OF WATER USE:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   When it is deemed necessary, the town council may at any time fix,
by resolution, the time of day that the water for lawn sprinkling or irrigation
purposes may be used, and may divide the town into districts for that purpose
as in the judgment of the town council may be necessary. In time of water
shortage, the town council may limit the use of water for other than domestic
purposes.
      2.   Any person who violates this provision shall be guilty of an
infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 11-02, 11-1-2011)
   B.   Use For Pressurized Irrigation:
      1.   The use of the culinary water system in the town for pressurized
irrigation between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
P.M., is hereby prohibited.
      2.   Any person who violates this provision shall be guilty of an
infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 06-01, 5-22-2006; amd. 2007 Code)
8-1-7: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Authorized Use: All fire hydrants shall be under the control of, and
shall be kept in repair by, the town. In case of a fire, the fire department
and such others as the town shall authorize, shall have free access to such
hydrants. No unauthorized person shall open or operate any fire hydrant, or
attempt to draw water therefrom, or obstruct the approach thereto.
   B.   Penalty For Damaging Fire Hydrant: Any person who shall wilfully or
carelessly operate a vehicle against a fire hydrant, or otherwise wilfully
damage the same, or without authority draw or attempt to draw water therefrom,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof may be punished by
a fine not to exceed two hundred ninety nine dollars ($299.00). Such person
shall be liable for all damages caused to said fire hydrant. (Ord. 11-02, 11-1-
2011)
8-1-8: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN:
Corinne City or any of its officers, agents, or employees shall not be liable
for damages to any water user by reason of any stoppage or interruption of the
water supply caused by scarcity of water, alterations, additions, or repairs of
the water system, or from any other unavoidable cause. (Ord. 11-02, 11-1-2011)
8-1-9: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection with Corinne City
water system except as provided in this chapter, or to wilfully damage or
destroy any part of the Corinne City water system. Any person violating any of
the provisions of this chapter, or any of the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter when no other penalty is prescribed,
shall upon conviction thereof be punished by fine not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed one month, or both such fine
and imprisonment. (Ord. 11-02, 11-1-2011)
CHAPTER 2
BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Inspections And Testing
8-2-3: New Construction
8-2-4: Installation Of Assembly Required
8-2-5: Previously Existing Equipment
8-2-6: Repair And Maintenance Of Equipment
8-2-7: Access For Inspection
8-2-8: Testing By Certified Backflow Technician
8-2-9: Public Notification
8-2-10: Records Maintained
8-2-11: Violations
8-2-12: Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: An assembly accepted by the Utah state department
of environmental quality, division of drinking water, as meeting an applicable
specification or as suitable for the proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the potable public water supply will be considered as an auxiliary water
supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another potable water
supply or any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream, etc., or
"used waters" or "industrial fluids". These waters may be contaminated or
polluted, or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water
source over which the water system operator does not have authority for
sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances under
pressure into the feeding distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source other than the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source other than
the intended source caused by the reduction of pressure in the potable water
supply system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: Assembly or means designed to prevent backflow.
See appendix J, chapter 10, Utah plumbing code, as adopted, for specification
of such assemblies.
CONSUMER: The persons who consume and/or waste, other liquids, mixtures or
substances which would be connected to the potable water supply system.
CROSS CONNECTIONS: Any connection which may allow nonpotable water or
industrial fluids or other material of questionable quality to come into
contact with potable water inside a distribution system, including any
temporary connections, swing connections, removable connections, four-way plug
valves, swivel changeover devices, or other similar plumbing arrangements.
(Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-2: INSPECTIONS AND TESTING:
It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to purchase, install, test
and maintain backflow prevention devices where necessary and to control cross
connections. The consumer shall have certified inspections and operational
tests at least once a year upon request of the town. Where the town deems a
hazard to be great, the consumer may be required to have such inspections and
tests at a more frequent interval as prescribed by the town. All such tests
shall be made according to the standard set forth by the state department of
health. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-3: NEW CONSTRUCTION:
The building inspector and/or town engineer will review all plans for new
construction and ensure that unprotected cross connections are not an integral
part of the consumer's water system. If a cross connection cannot be
eliminated, protection will be required by installation of an air gap or other
approved backflow prevention device in accordance with the state plumbing code,
as adopted. Water vacating the drinking water supply must do so by means of an
approved air gap or mechanical backflow prevention assembly as required by the
state plumbing code. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-4: INSTALLATION OF ASSEMBLY REQUIRED:
Whenever the building inspector and/or town engineer deems a service
connection's water usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the water supply,
installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be required on
the lateral service line of the consumer's water system at/or the property
line, or immediately inside the building being served, but before the first
branch line leading off the lateral water line in any event. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-
2000)
8-2-5: PREVIOUSLY EXISTING EQUIPMENT:
All backflow prevention assemblies existing at the time this chapter was
adopted which do not meet the requirements herein shall be excluded from the
requirements hereof, provided they were approved for the purposes described
herein at the time of installation and have been properly maintained. Such
previously existing assemblies shall be subject to the periodic inspection and
testing required by section
8-2-2 of this chapter. Whenever an existing assembly is moved to another
location, or where it is determined to constitute a hazard to health, the unit
shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly. (Ord. 00-06, 9-
5-2000)
8-2-6: REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT:
The maintenance of all backflow prevention assemblies and cross connection
control devices, after meter, required hereunder shall be the responsibility of
the consumer, and failure to adequately maintain the required equipment shall
be a violation. All installations and repairs of such equipment shall be
effected by a certified backflow technician as provided in section
8-2-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-7: ACCESS FOR INSPECTION:
A consumer's system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable times to
authorized representatives of the town in order to determine if cross
connections or other hazards exist. Consumers shall be responsible to provide
access across their property for inspection purposes free from litter,
overgrowth, threat of vicious animals, or other hindrance that may be
detrimental to ease of access. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-8: TESTING BY CERTIFIED BACKFLOW TECHNICIAN:
All tests of mechanical devices shall be conducted by a certified backflow
technician. Such technician shall be responsible for the following:
   A.   Assure that acceptable testing equipment and procedures are used for
the testing, repairing or overhauling of backflow prevention assemblies.
   B.   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the consumer, the town
and the bureau of drinking water and sanitation. Reports shall be in accordance
with the bureau requirements.
   C.   Include in all reports a list of any materials or replacement parts
used.
   D.   Assure that replacement parts are equal in quality to original parts
and that any testing, repair or replacement does not change the design or
operational characteristics of the assembly.
   E.   Maintain license in current condition and testing equipment in proper
operating condition.
   F.   Be competent to use all necessary equipment to properly test and
maintain backflow prevention assemblies.
   G.   Tag each double check valve and pressure vacuum breaker; reduce
pressure backflow assembly and high hazard air gap; show the serial number,
date tested and by whom, including the technician's license number. (Ord. 00-
06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-9: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:
Although failure of a consumer to be aware of this chapter shall be no defense
to violation, the water department shall use reasonable means to notify its
customers of the hazards of cross connections and the need for annual
inspection of backflow assemblies. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-10: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The water department shall keep reasonable records of cross connection hazards
and the condition of backflow assemblies, including those records required by
state and federal agencies. It shall provide the tags required by subsection 8-
2-8G of this chapter upon request. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-11: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Service of water to a consumer found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be discontinued by the town after written notice of the violation, ten
(10) days suspended for voluntary compliance, and due process otherwise
extended by the town before termination of water service. A violation exists:
      1.   If backflow prevention assembly required herein for control of cross
connections is not installed, tested or maintained;
      2.   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly is removed or has
been bypassed;
      3.   If an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises;
      4.   If the periodic system inspection has not been conducted.
   B.   Where written notification of a deficiency is provided by the town to
the consumer to take required corrective action within ten (10) days after the
date of mailing such notice, the town shall thereafter discontinue service in
accordance herewith. Water service will not be restored until all such
conditions or defects are corrected. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000)
8-2-12: PENALTY:
In addition to any penalty provided herein, violation of this chapter shall be
a class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 00-06, 9-5-2000; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Title And Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Zones Established
8-3-4: Permitted Uses
8-3-5: Prohibited Uses
8-3-6: Administration
8-3-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter shall be known as the DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
ORDINANCE.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and
sanitary drinking water supply for the town by the establishment of drinking
water source protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are
the supply sources for the town water system and by the designation and
regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such
zones. (Ord. 99-07, 10-5-1999, eff. 10-5-1999)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
DESIGN STANDARD: A control which is implemented by a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges to the ground water. Spill protection is an
example of a design standard.
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, the following: zoning and subdivision ordinance, site plan
reviews, design and operating standards, source prohibitions, purchase of
property and development rights, public education programs, ground water
monitoring, household hazardous waste collection programs, water conservation
programs, memoranda of understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so
forth.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to ground water or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances"
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain
fields, class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps, land
filling of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, and
animal feeding operations with more than ten (10) animal units. The following
clarify the definition of pollution source:
   A.   Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: Animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period, and crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
   B.   Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder
cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses
multiplied by 2.0.
   C.   Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified
in section 302 (EHS) column of the title III list of lists-consolidated list of
chemicals subject to reporting under SARA title III (EPA 560/4-91-011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate ground water. A pollution source
is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over hazardous
waste.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAIN FIELD SYSTEMS: A system which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drain field which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or
facilities for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank/
drain field system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord. 99-07, 10-5-1999, eff. 10-5-1999)
8-3-3: ZONES ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established use districts to be known as zones 1, 2, 3, and 4
of the drinking water source protection area, identified and described as
follows:
   A.   Zone 1 is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius from the
wellhead.
   B.   Zone 2 is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day ground water
time of travel to the wellhead. This is a composite of the DWSP zones
calculated from WHPA and hydrogeologic mapping. The maximum overall length of
the two hundred fifty (250) day DWSP zone in the direction of flow is
approximately three thousand one hundred twenty feet (3,120'), with maximum
overall width of four thousand feet (4,000').
   C.   Zones 3 and 4 are the areas well beyond the margin of the collection
area defined by hydrogeologic mapping. The maximum overall length of the 3-
year/15-year DWSP zone in the direction of flow is approximately eight thousand
five hundred feet (8,500') (1.61 miles), with a maximum overall width of
roughly five thousand five hundred feet (5,500') (1.04 miles). (Ord. 99-07, 10-
5-1999, eff. 10-5-1999)
8-3-4: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted within drinking water source protection
zones:
   A.   Any use permitted within existing agricultural, single-family
residential, multi-family residential and commercial districts so long as uses
conform to the rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies.
   B.   Any other open land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use. (Ord. 99-07, 10-5-1999,
eff. 10-5-1999)
8-3-5: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
drinking water source protection zones, whether or not such use or condition
may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section
8-3-4 of this chapter:
   A.   Zone 1: The location of any "pollution source", as defined in section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Zone 2: The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with design standards.
   C.   Zones 3 And 4: The location of a potential contamination source unless
it can be controlled through land management strategies. (Ord. 99-07, 10-5-
1999, eff. 10-5-1999)
8-3-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any source protection zone
established under this chapter, including, without limitation, those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exception, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the town, as the same is
presently enacted or may from time to time be amended. (Ord. 99-07, 10-5-1999,
eff. 10-5-1999)
CHAPTER 4
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-4-1: Application For Service
8-4-2: Fees
8-4-3: Operational Requirements
8-4-4: Penalty
8-4-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
To apply for irrigation service, an application will need to be received at
Town Hall for the following year irrigation season and approved by the Council.
(Ord. 14-03, 7-15-2014)
8-4-2: FEES:
The Town shall bill each irrigation user each March for the irrigation time
allotted. The billing for said irrigation service may be combined with Town
water, sewer and garbage collection charges and one bill only rendered to the
user. See Corinne City fee schedule for rates.
Irrigation fees are delinquent after one month. If the bill is not paid in full
by the 15th day of the second (2nd) month, all irrigation services will be
terminated for the irrigation season. This irrigation service will then be
offered to another applicant who is on a waiting list. This waiting list is on
file with the Town Recorder. If no applicant agrees to purchase the delinquent
irrigation service, the time allotted will then be assimilated into the system.
(Ord. 14-03, 7-15-2014)
8-4-3: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   The Town will clean and repair all primary ditches once a year prior
to the start of the irrigation season.
      2.   The Town will be responsible for getting the water from the Bear
River Canal to the primary Town ditches. These primary ditches are as follows:
         a.   North Ditch: From Bear River Canal to where the ditch passes
under 2500 No. at 3850 W.
         b.   Railroad Ditch: From Bear River Canal to where the ditch passes
under 3800 W.
         c.   Montana Street Ditch: From Bear River Canal through box at
southeast corner of tennis courts to Bear River along Montana Street/2350 No.
and from junction box at 3950 W. 2350 No. traveling north to alleyway and east
to 3800 W.
         d.   Arizona Ditch: From Bear River Canal, south through Pete Miller
ground, turn east to the box located at 4150 W. 2300 No., south to 2250 No.,
east to 3800 W., north to 2350 W., east into river and from the intersection
4100 W. and 2250 N., south side to 4050 W.
         e.   Colorado Ditch: From 4150 W. 2300 No., east to 3950 W., south to
2150 No.
         f.   All secondary ditches (any ditch not defined as primary) shall be
the responsibility of the citizens who are serviced by said ditch.
      3.   The Town will be responsible for routine maintenance of primary
ditches and primary ditch head gates.
      4.   Only Town employees or their designees, are allowed to open, close
or otherwise regulate primary head gates.
      5.   The Town is not responsible for disputes over irrigation water on
secondary ditches.
      6.   Questions and/or problems on irrigation are to be directed to the
Town offices during posted office hours.
      7.   Town employees are not to be contacted about irrigation problems
after normal Town working hours, which are eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five
o'clock (5:00) P.M.
      8.   If an emergency situation arises, defined as:
         a.   No water to primary ditches,
         b.   Primary ditches are flooding their banks,
contact Town Hall.
      9.   If an emergency occurs outside of regular posted hours, contact the
Town Council member in charge of irrigation. (Ord. 14-03, 7-15-2014)
8-4-4: PENALTY:
Persons tampering with irrigation water, head gates, or irrigation flow will be
assessed labor cost to correct the problem and a fee as set forth in the
Corinne City fee schedule. If caught a third time they will lose all rights to
irrigation water for the rest of the season, and may be prosecuted if deemed
necessary.
Persons contacting Town employees outside of standard business hours about non-
emergency irrigation problems will be assessed a fee as provided in the Corinne
City fee schedule. (Ord. 14-03, 7-15-2014)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Control And Supervision Of System
8-5-2: Variations From Chapter
8-5-3: Declaration Of Policy
8-5-4: Connection Required
8-5-5: Sewer Connections
8-5-6: Fees, Rates And Charges
8-5-7: Sewer Service Billings And Payment
8-5-8: Joint Sewer Connections
8-5-9: Inspection
8-5-10: Failure To Remedy Defective Work
8-5-11: Dangerous Or Harmful Discharges
8-5-12: Unlawful Acts And Activities
8-5-13: Existing Septic Tanks And Cesspools
8-5-14: Settling Tanks
8-5-15: Distance Of Other Pipes From Sewer
8-5-16: Pipe Requirements; Joints
8-5-17: Junction Of Pipes
8-5-18: Changes In Direction
8-5-19: Excavations
8-5-20: Backfilling
8-5-21: Inside Drain; Dead Ends
8-5-22: Property Outside Town Limits
8-5-23: Conflicts
8-5-1: CONTROL AND SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM:
The entire sewer system shall be under the immediate care, supervision and
control of the public works director, who shall be appointed by the mayor and
confirmed by the town council. The public works director and town engineer are
hereby charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002;
amd. 2007 Code)
8-5-2: VARIATIONS FROM CHAPTER:
Any variation from the provisions of this chapter shall be made only upon the
written order of the public works director. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd. 2007
Code)
8-5-3: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
The town council has caused a survey to be made of sanitary conditions within
the town, including the geological aspects in relation to industrial, business
and residential establishments as the same affect the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the town, and has determined and does hereby determine and
require that it is necessary for the protection of the public health that
owners of improved property within the town be required to connect their
industrial, business and residential establishments to the sewer system and to
cease to use all other methods of sewage disposal, if such establishments are
capable of being served by and through the municipal sewer system and are not
exempted under section
8-5-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002)
8-5-4: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
It is hereby expressly provided that it shall be unlawful for the owner or
other person having charge of or occupying any property upon which a building
shall have been or is being constructed for residential, commercial or
industrial use, any part of which building is within three hundred feet (300')
of any sewer then in existence and used in the town, to construct or permit to
be constructed, or to use or permit to be used, any privy vault, septic tank or
cesspool connected with such building. Each such owner or other person shall,
within ninety (90) days after having been given notice by the town that an
accepted public sewer is ready to receive connections therewith, cause such
building to be connected with such sewer, and it shall thereafter be unlawful
for such owner or other person to have the plumbing in such building remain
unconnected to the public sewer or to maintain or use or cause or permit to
exist any privy vault, septic tank or cesspool to which such building is
connected or which is used by the occupant thereof. Whenever an accepted public
sewer is available to receive connections therewith, the public works director
shall cause appropriate notice to be served upon the owner, agent or other
person having charge of or occupying all property coming within the scope of
this section that such public sewer is ready to receive connections therewith
and that all plumbing must be connected with such sewer. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-
2002; amd. 2007 Code)
8-5-5: SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required And On Premises During Construction:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commence or carry on the work
of installing, repairing, altering or connecting any sewer pipe with the public
sewer without first having a permit to do so from the town. Such permit must be
on the premises during the whole time the work is in progress and must be
exhibited, upon request, to the public works director or his authorized agent.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a connection or attach
any private house connection directly or indirectly with the public sewer
without having first received the regular permit from the town.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for a permit for a sewer
connection must be made in writing by the owner of the premises or his
authorized agent and must be accompanied by plans showing the cause of the
connection, its size and the size and location of all branches to be connected.
The application and plans, together with the connection fee as hereinafter
provided for, shall be deposited with the town recorder and when approved by
the public works director, in conjunction with the town engineer, shall be
granted, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Designation Of Grade Of Sewer Connection; Plat Of Connection: All sewer
connections shall be put into line on grades designated by the town engineer,
who shall prepare a plat of each connection and file such plat in the town
offices.
   D.   Inspection Of Connections: All house connections to the sewer shall be
inspected by the Box Elder County building inspector and town engineer and/or
public works director and work not approved by at least one of them shall be
rectified without delay before the backfilling shall be done. No certificate of
inspection shall be issued until the work is entirely satisfactory.
   E.   Connection To Intercepting Sewer When Fixtures Lower Than Sewer
Elevation: No permit shall be issued for, nor shall any connection be made
with, what is known as the intercepting sewer where the fixtures in the house
or the property so to be connected to such sewer are lower than the present
elevation of the sewer without proper lift pump, and evaluation by the town
engineer.
   F.   Permit Issued To State Licensed Contractor: All permits for sewer
connections shall be issued to a state licensed contractor who is qualified
under state license law to do the work.
   G.   Revocation Of Permit: The town may at any time revoke a permit for a
sewer connection on account of defective work or material.
   H.   Plumbing Requirements: Permits to connect with the public sewer shall
not be issued unless the plumbing in the house or building to be connected is
in accordance with the provisions of all ordinances of the town relating
thereto and the international building code. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd. 2007
Code)
8-5-6: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Monthly Service Charges: See town fee schedule. By resolution, the town
council may, from time to time, change the monthly service charges as it may
see fit. The rates provided for shall be added to the water rates now fixed and
determined by ordinance or resolution and the total thereof shall be considered
as one charge for the combined use of water, garbage and the services of the
sewage system.
   B.   Credit For Vacancy: The owner of any unit may, on or before the tenth
day of any month following the vacancy of an entire unit for such month, file
an affidavit of vacancy with the town recorder and receive a credit on the
water and sewage bill for such month of vacancy equal to the number of
vacancies for that month applied to the unit so vacant.
   C.   Impact Fee: The charges for the connection of any property to the
municipal sewer system from the effective date hereof shall be set by the
impact fee 1 , and shall remain the same until changed by resolution of the
town council duly passed and adopted. The above said charges shall be paid to
the town prior to the issuance of a permit for or the beginning of any
excavation or other work to connect to town sewer lines. The listed schedule of
rates and connection fees shall remain in effect until revised from time to
time as determined by the town council.
   D.   Line Installation Expenses: In addition to the service connection fee
hereinabove set forth, the contractor or property owner shall pay all the
actual expenses of installing the service line from the property to the main
sewer line, connecting to the town sewer line subject to the town's inspection
and approval, and all other costs, including the repairing and restoring of the
street in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   E.   Property Not Served; Owner Expense: Where property on existing town
streets is not served by a sewer line in front of or adjacent to such property
and the owner desires a sewer service connection, the property owner, in
addition to paying the service connection fee, will be required to run the line
at his own expense to the main sewer line, to make the connection at his own
expense, subject to the town's inspection and approval, and to restore and
repair the street in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   F.   Failure To Connect: If any abutting improved property on which is
located a residence or business, is not connected to the town sewer lines after
the effective date hereof, provided the sewage facilities are available in
sewage lines passing in front of or adjacent to such property, and are not
exempted under section
8-5-13 of this chapter, the town is to discontinue service of water to such
property, and shall not serve such property with water until the connection is
made and the connection charge paid, or arranged for, and further in the event
any owner of improved property fails or refuses to make such connection prior
to such date, such failure or refusal is hereby declared to be a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that such failure or refusal continues is
hereby declared to be a separate offense and punishable as such. (Ord. 02-06,
10-1-2002; amd. 2007 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 10 of this code.
8-5-7: SEWER SERVICE BILLINGS AND PAYMENT:
All bills for sewer service shall be rendered monthly at established rates on
the same bill with the garbage 1  and water bill. Each bill shall show
separately the amount of the sewer service charges but the total thereof shall
be considered one charge for the combined use of water, garbage and the
services of the sewer system. The portion of the bill rendered for water
service cannot be paid separately from the other portions. All charges for
sewer service furnished by the town shall be billed to the user property owner,
or responsible agent (not to include the renters in rental units), on any day
of the month following a one month period of service to the user, and payment
shall be due and payable fifteen (15) days after such date of billing, and if
not paid within sixty (60) days from date of billing, the water service may be
disconnected without notice and without further action of the town council.
Reestablishment of service may be withheld until all delinquent charges due
from such party have been paid in full, together with a service charge for
reconnection. See town fee schedule. The service charge for reconnection shall
be determined by resolution of the town council and may be amended from time to
time by the town council.
   A.   For purposes of determining the occupancy of residences and/or
apartment, it shall be prima facie proof that a residence or apartment is
occupied whenever water is furnished to the unit of occupancy.
   B.   The charges for sewer service shall be billed to the person or entity
to whom the water bill for the unit of occupancy is chargeable or the property
owner. If the property owner so states in writing to the town, that the renter
is to be responsible for the bill, the town will bill said renter with the
knowledge that the property owner is still the owner and therefore ultimately
responsible for the bill. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-1-4C of this code.
8-5-8: JOINT SEWER CONNECTIONS:
Each separate building or premises shall have a separate connection to the main
line sewer, except only in cases where it is impracticable, and then only on
special permission granted by the town council upon the recommendation of the
public works director. No special permission shall be granted by the town
council unless and until the owner of each building or premises to be connected
shall grant to and receive from every other owner perpetual easements and
rights of way which shall be properly recorded across and upon each of the
premises involved for the purpose of constructing and maintaining each separate
connection, and shall covenant and agree as a part of such right of way or
easement, so that the same shall be a covenant appurtenant to and running with
the land, that each owner will bear and pay his proportionate share for the
maintenance and repair of the connection whether the expenditure, maintenance
or repair becomes necessary upon his own premises or the premises with which he
is connected. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd. 2007 Code)
8-5-9: INSPECTION:
   A.   Notice To Inspect; Backfilling:
      1.   The inspection of sewer connections between the main sewer and five
feet (5') outside of the building line shall be under the direction of the
public works director. He shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours in
advance by the contractor that the connection is complete and ready for
inspection. The entire length of the sewer connection, including the wye at the
main sewer, if there be one, shall be fully exposed.
      2.   No backfilling shall be done until the inspection is made and the
work is accepted. If any portion of the work is not done in accordance with
this chapter and the instructions of the public works director, or his
inspector, it shall be rectified promptly.
   B.   Work Done Without Inspection: Work done without notice to inspect or
without inspection shall be treated as defective work and shall be condemned,
uncovered and reinstalled, if necessary, to the grade given by the public works
director and town engineer, and inspected by the proper officer upon the proper
permits being taken out by a duly licensed contractor, the expense for the same
to be borne by the property owner. The license of the plumber or drain layer of
such defective work shall be revoked. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd. 2007 Code)
8-5-10: FAILURE TO REMEDY DEFECTIVE WORK:
No permit shall be issued to any licensed plumber or contractor during the time
that he shall fail to remedy any defective work, after he has been notified
that he has been held responsible therefor under this chapter. (Ord. 02-06, 10-
1-2002)
8-5-11: DANGEROUS OR HARMFUL DISCHARGES:
   A.   Enumeration Of Restricted Substances: Except as hereinafter provided,
no person, owner or applicant for sewer service shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or waste to any public sewers:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor, having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      2.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100)
parts per million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      4.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works and sewage treatment
plant.
      5.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works or sewage treatment
plant.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      8.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   B.   Conditions And Charges For Discharge Into Public Sewers:
      1.   Characteristics: The admission into the public sewers of any waters
or wastes possessing any of the following shall subject the owner or applicant
for sewer service to the conditions provided in subsection B2 of this section
before receiving approval therefor of the town council:
         a.   Having a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) greater
than three hundred (300) parts per million by weight; or
         b.   Containing more than three hundred fifty (350) parts per million
by weight of suspended solids; or
         c.   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
prescribed in subsection A of this section; or
         d.   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent (2%) of the
average daily flow of the main outfall sewer line serving area.
      2.   Conditions:
         a.   Where necessary in the opinion of the town council, the owner
shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to reduce the BOD to three hundred (300) parts per million and the suspended
solids to three hundred fifty (350) parts per million, by weight, or reduce
objectionable characteristics of constituents to within the maximum limits
provided for in subsection A of this section, or control, within acceptable
limitations hereinabove prescribed, the quantities and rates of discharge of
such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the town council and of the state water pollution
control commission, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until such approvals are obtained in writing.
         b.   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner, at his expense.
         c.   Where the strength of any waters or waste exceeds three hundred
(300) parts per million by weight of BOD or three hundred fifty (350) parts per
million by weight of suspended solids or one hundred (100) parts per million by
weight of other extractable matter, a daily fee shall be charged for each one
hundred (100) pounds of such excess, or fractional part thereof, in the amount
fixed by the town council from time to time by resolution. Such fee shall be
paid by the owner monthly until such time as the town council is notified that
preliminary treatment facilities have been provided by the owner, or that other
proper steps to ensure compliance with subsection A of this section have been
established. At that time, the town council or its authorized representative
shall inspect facilities and cause to have new samples tested at the owner's
expense to determine the extent of effectiveness, at which time charges to
comply with the condition of such wastes will then be made.
         d.   When required by the town council, the owner of any property
served by a building sewer lateral carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole in the building sewer lateral to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of wastes. Such manhole, when required,
shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the town council. The manhole shall be installed by the
owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
         e.   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in any of the foregoing sections
shall be determined in accordance with "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Sewage" and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for
in subsection B4d of this section, or upon suitable samples taken at such
control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the
control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the
public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
         f.   The town council or other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord.
02-06, 10-1-2002)
8-5-12: UNLAWFUL ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Injuring Sewer Appliance Or Appurtenance: It shall be unlawful for any
person to wilfully injure, break or remove any part or portion of any sewer
appliance or appurtenance. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002)
   B.   Opening Manhole: It shall be unlawful for any person to open any sewer
manhole without the permission of the public works director or his authorized
agent. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd. 2007 Code)
   C.   Discharging Rainwater, Etc., Into Sewer; Overflow From Blow Off
Boilers: It shall be unlawful for any person to connect with a public sanitary
sewer any drain or pipe which discharges rain water, ground water, cellar or
surface water or the contents of any spring, flowing well, creek, ditch or
other watercourse, or any stream exhaust or blow off. The overflow from blow
off boilers or heating plants shall not be permitted to enter a sewer at a
temperature above one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F).
   D.   Unauthorized Use Of Plumber's Or Contractor's License: No licensed
plumber shall allow his name to be used by any person or party, directly or
indirectly, either for the purpose of obtaining a permit or to do any work
under his license. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002)
8-5-13: EXISTING SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS:
When septic tanks and cesspools are in use prior to a public sewer system being
installed, they may remain in service until such time as the septic tank or
cesspool fails. Upon failure, and after paying proper fees, they will be
connected to the public sewer system at the owner's cost. All buildings using
septic tanks or cesspools must comply with all other town ordinances. (Ord. 02-
06, 10-1-2002)
8-5-14: SETTLING TANKS:
The discharge of contents of waste pipes from water filters, gas engines, soda
water fountains, air compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners, garages, stores or
warehouses containing inflammable oils, car barns, carriage houses, laundries,
buildings for the stabling and keeping of horses, cows or other animals, and
all similar establishments, shall not be made into or connected with a public
sanitary sewer, unless such contents are discharged into a settling tank
properly trapped and vented. Such tanks shall be of construction approved by
the town engineer and to be at all times subject to his inspection and
condemnation. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002)
8-5-15: DISTANCE OF OTHER PIPES FROM SEWER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install any utility line, water pipe or
other conduit in violation of the state rules for division of water quality as
adopted by the town from time to time, or the technical specifications as
provided by the town engineer. The town council may adopt by resolution
amendments or updates to the state rules for public drinking water systems from
time to time as may be deemed necessary and prudent by the town. (Ord. 02-06,
10-1-2002)
8-5-16: PIPE REQUIREMENTS; JOINTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or attach any private drain
with the public sewer of the town except upon full compliance with the
provisions of this section:
   A.   All sewer pipes shall not be less than four inches (4"), nor more than
six inches (6") internal diameter, and from the house or building to a point
five feet (5') outside the wall or foundation thereof shall be of ductile iron,
PVC or ABS, and from that point to the main sewer connection may be either
ductile iron, PVC or ABS, at the option of the owner of the premises with which
the sewer connection is to be made. Other pipes can be used upon approval from
the town engineer.
   B.   The ductile iron, PVC or ABS pipe shall be sound, free from holes or
cracks and without traps, valves or other obstructions which might prevent or
retard the free passage of air or sewage.
   C.   Four inch (4") diameter standard ductile iron, PVC or ABS soil pipe
will be acceptable. Larger or heavier pipe may be used or required when
conditions warrant its use.
   D.   In the use of ductile iron pipe, the corresponding standards may be
used and all fittings used in connection with any of the above sizes shall
correspond with it in weight and quality. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002)
   E.   All joints on other than ABS pipe shall be rubber gasket sealed unless
otherwise approved by the public works director and/or town engineer. ABS pipe
shall be adhesively bonded using the approved ABS adhesive.
   F.   All pipes shall be laid in a firm bed, true to the line and grades by
the town engineer, on a uniform grade not less than 1.68 feet per one hundred
feet (100') for four inch (4") pipe and not less than 0.8 feet per one hundred
feet (100') of six inch (6") pipe. Variation from these grades must be approved
by the public works director and/or town engineer. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd.
2007 Code)
8-5-17: JUNCTION OF PIPES:
Unless otherwise directed in the permit, all private sewers must be connected
with junction pipes, slants or wyes, laid in the sewer during construction. The
connection point with the sewer must first be located before opening the trench
for the rest of the work. All trenches must be of sufficient width and opened
in such a manner as to admit easy inspection, and all connections with the
public sewer must be made in the presence of the inspector. In all cases where
there is one junction piece, slant or wye in the sewer at the point where
connection is to be made, the opening of the sewer and the making of such
connection must be in strict accordance with the permit and under the
supervision of the public works director. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd. 2007
Code)
8-5-18: CHANGES IN DIRECTION:
All changes in direction must be made by the use of appropriate fittings
approved by the public works director or town engineer. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002;
amd. 2007 Code)
8-5-19: EXCAVATIONS:
In excavating the sewer trench, bell holes must be dug under all bell ends of
the pipe so that all joints can be easily made and examined. All work that may
be necessary shall be done to keep the trench and sewer free from surface or
ground water during the process of the work. In wet trenches, a channel shall
be kept open on one side to conduct the water to a pump, where it shall be
pumped or drained off, and no water shall be allowed to enter the sewer any
time during the construction. Whenever necessary, the trench shall be properly
shored to prevent the sides from caving in. No tunneling shall be allowed
except where absolutely necessary and then only by permission of the public
works director. All gas and water pipes and other conduits encountered shall be
carefully supported and protected from injury until the backfilling is
completed. If the sewer trenches pass through any cesspool or other pit, the
pipe shall be satisfactorily supported. No paved street or other improved
surface shall be disturbed until a deposit shall have been made with the town
recorder to cover the cost of repairing the same. All portions of the street
excavated shall be put in as good condition or better as before. Sewer
excavations must also meet the requirements of the town excavation permit
requirements 1 . (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd. 2007 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
8-5-20: BACKFILLING:
All sewer connections shall be backfilled around and over the pipe for a depth
of two feet (2') with fine material carefully compacted. The remainder of the
backfilling shall be completed with good material, well compacted or settled
with water as may be directed. All backfilling shall be subject to approval by
the public works director. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002; amd. 2007 Code)
8-5-21: INSIDE DRAIN; DEAD ENDS:
All connections with the public sewer must be left smooth and perfectly clean
on the inside, and all dead ends must be securely stopped by brick and cement
or other watertight and impermeable materials. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002)
8-5-22: PROPERTY OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS:
The proper officers of the town are hereby authorized to make and enter into
such contracts as may be necessary, convenient or proper with respect to the
carrying and treatment of sewage from improved property outside the territorial
limits of the town and with respect to the payment of property charges for such
service, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
connection charges justly related to but not less than the charges hereinabove
fixed; provided, that no such contract shall impair the ability of the town to
carry and treat properly the sanitary sewage furnished within the territorial
limits of the town. (Ord. 02-06, 10-1-2002)
8-5-23: CONFLICTS:
All provisions contained in prior ordinances, in conflict with the provisions
of this chapter, are to the extent of such conflicts hereby repealed. (Ord. 02-
06, 10-1-2002)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION AND MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-1-0: Scope Of Regulations
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Statement Of Purpose
9-1-3: Conflict
9-1-4: Effect On Previous Ordinances And Maps
9-1-5: Amendments To Title And Zoning Map
9-1-6: Notices
9-1-7: Creation Of Districts And Zone Map
9-1-8: Penalty
9-1-9: Licensing
9-1-10: Zoning Map Adopted
9-1-11: Permit Procedure
9-1-12: Permitted Use Review Process
9-1-13: Review And Regulations For Impact On Public Infrastructures
9-1-14: [Reserved]
9-1-15: Master Planned Development Review Process
9-1-16: Appeals And Review Process
9-1-17: Termination Of Projects
9-1-18: Appearance Before Boards, Commissions And Councils
9-1-19: Variances And Special Exceptions
9-1-20: Relation To Prior Development And Subdivision Ordinance
9-1-21: Vesting Of Zoning Rights
9-1-22: Plat Approval
9-1-23: Nonconforming Uses
9-1-24: Repealer, Saving Clause And Continuation Of Prior Ordinances
9-1-25: Conflicts Within Title
9-1-0: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
This chapter describes the general rules and regulations necessary to
effectively administer the land management and development code of the town.
Procedures for permitted use applicants are defined. Code and zoning
amendments, as well as appeal procedures and nonconforming uses, are explained
in detail. The infrastructure impact review process is also emphasized
throughout the permitting procedure. Other important procedures and provisions
are defined in this chapter as well. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-
2020)
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the CORINNE CITY SUBDIVISION AND MASTER PLANNED
DEVELOPMENT CODE, and is referred to herein as this title, or just the
subdivision code, or the master planned development code. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-1-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   After considerable public input and several public hearings over a
period of six (6) months, this title was developed, designed and enacted to
implement the goals and objectives of Corinne City's 1998 general plan, a
document designed to protect its special rural, agricultural quality of life.
More generally, the following goals and objectives define the major purposes of
this title:
      1.   To promote the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of
the present and future inhabitants of the community.
      2.   To encourage and facilitate the orderly growth and development of
the community and to implement the goals and policies of the general plan.
      3.   To provide adequate open space for light, air, agriculture and
environment; to prevent overcrowding of the land and to minimize congestion on
the streets.
      4.   To secure economy in municipal expenditures and to encourage
adequate provisions for transportation, water, sewage, schools, public safety,
parks and other public facilities and services.
      5.   To increase the security of home life and to preserve a more
favorable environment for the citizens and visitors of the community.
      6.   To ensure safety from fire and other manmade or natural dangers,
city adheres to NFPA and IFC Fire Code Requirements.
      7.   To stabilize and protect property values and to place compatible
uses together in the community.
      8.   To enhance the economic and cultural well being of the inhabitants
of the community.
      9.   To promote the development of a more wholesome, serviceable and
attractive community resulting from an orderly, planned use of resources.
      10.   To establish proper zoning regulations; to ensure the suitability
of the land for particular uses and to conserve the value of buildings and
encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the community.
      11.   To preserve the rural, agricultural quality of life enjoyed by the
residents of the town.
      12.   To further the purpose of this title and to promote the objectives
and qualities of the respective zones.
   B.   It is the intention of the town in adopting this title to fully
exercise all of the powers granted to the town by the provisions of the Utah
municipal land use, development and management code, Utah Code Annotated
section 10-9a-101 et seq., as amended, and all other powers granted by statute
or by common law for the regulation of land uses and improvements. The
intention of the town is to assure the managed, proper and sensitive/critical
development of land within the town and to protect and enhance the quality of
rural life in general. The code is intended to allow development in a manner
that encourages the preservation of scenic values, historic structures, the
unique agricultural setting of the town, and provide for well planned
commercial and residential centers, smooth traffic circulation, and efficient
delivery of municipal services. The code seeks to prevent development
influenced by existing geologic hazards, erosion, flooding or other conditions
that create potential dangers to life and safety in the community, or
development that influences critical wildlife habitats, or developments that
detract from the rural quality of life in the community. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd.
Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-3: CONFLICT:
The provisions of this title are in addition to all other town ordinances, the
laws of the state, the laws of the United States and applicable common law.
This title shall not supersede any private land use regulations in deeds or
covenants which are more restrictive than this title. Whenever a conflict
exists, the more restrictive provision shall apply to the extent allowed by
law. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-1-4: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS:
The existing zoning ordinances of the town, including the official zoning maps
adopted with those ordinances, are hereby amended in their entirety to conform
to the provisions of this title; providing, that this title is a continuation
of the existing ordinances, and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance
of the old and new provisions are the same. This title shall not be construed
as affecting the term of office of any board or commission member appointed
under the prior enactment. Structures built prior to the adoption of the
ordinance codified herein, or for which building permits were issued and on
which work commences as required under the permit shall, to the extent they do
not conform to this title, be considered as nonconforming uses, and shall not
be affected hereby. Uses which were nonconforming under the old enactments
shall not be affected by this title, unless the provision is changed in a
manner that makes the use conforming to the new provision or zone. (Ord., 1-18-
2005)
9-1-5: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE AND ZONING MAP:
It may become desirable from time to time to amend the provisions of this title
or the zoning map. This title should be constantly reviewed and improved upon
to stay viable and useful to the town. All amendments shall be made in the
following manner:
   A.   Amendments: Amendments to the provisions of this title may be made by
the planning commission and town council, as originated in either body
(although normally originated by the planning commission) from time to time,
following a properly posted public hearing of each body. Notice of public
hearings and meetings on amendments to this title shall be as provided in Utah
Code Annotated section 10-9a-205. The first hearing must be held by the
planning commission and the proposed changes must then be certified to the town
council for their action. After the town council hearing, the amendment, as
proposed, amended and/or rejected may be adopted on the day of the hearing or
at any time following the hearing; provided, it is adopted at a town council
meeting.
   B.   Types Of Amendments: The types and nature of amendments that may be
made are classified as follows:
      1.   Allowing a use previously prohibited.
      2.   Prohibiting a use previously allowed.
      3.   Increasing or decreasing the density of the uses previously allowed.
      4.   Changing the zone of any property.
      5.   Procedural or regulatory changes, both minor or major.
      6.   Zone map amendments or modifications.
      7.   Repealing of any regulation or procedure.
      8.   Adding of any regulation or procedure.
      9.   Any other miscellaneous changes that may become necessary.
   C.   Petition For Zone Change Or Title Amendment: A petition to change the
zone of any land within the town or to amend this title, other than changing
the zone map, shall be filed first with the planning commission in a letter or
on a form prescribed for that purpose. The form or letter shall contain a legal
description of the land affected by the petition, and a statement of the
petitioner's interest in the land included within the petition. The petition
shall state the current zone of the property and the desired change. The
petition shall give the reasoning for the change. A fee will be established for
acting on a petition for a zone change as described in the current town fee
resolution in effect at the time. (To change or amend the zone within a legally
recorded subdivision, the petition must also include signatures of approval by
the owners of at least 51 percent of the platted lots in the subdivision.) The
petition must also include all of the names of property owners within a two
thousand five hundred foot (2,500') radius of the property boundary under
petition, with the signatures of those approving of the change clearly shown.
Those owners whose signatures are not shown on the petition shall be sent
letters with the petition for their review and comments, and their names shall
be provided to the town by the petitioner so that the notices of hearings and
petition can be sent to them by the town.
   D.   Hearings Before Planning Commission: The planning commission shall hold
a public hearing on all petitions for zone changes and receive comments from
citizens or property owners affected by the change. The planning commission
shall also hold a public hearing on other amendments to the subdivision and
master planned development code. Notice of all zone change hearings before the
planning commission shall be given as set forth in section
9-1-6 of this chapter. The notice shall state generally the nature of the
proposed amendment as outlined in subsection B of this section and the land
affected, and the time, place and date of the public hearing. The notice shall
also state that more detailed information shall be available for public
inspection at the town recorder's office, or other specified location at the
time the notice is published.
   E.   Action By Planning Commission: Following the hearing, the planning
commission shall adopt formal recommendations to be presented to the town
council regarding the matter before it, approving, disapproving or modifying
the proposal. The planning commission shall act on the proposal at the time of
the hearing or at its next regularly scheduled meeting following the hearing,
unless the proponent or petitioner has requested the matter be tabled for
further consideration, or the petition is withdrawn. If the planning commission
fails to act within two (2) regularly scheduled meetings on the proposal, the
proposal shall be deemed disapproved by the planning commission and the
proposal shall be forwarded to the town council for their consideration with
that recommendation.
   F.   Hearing Before Town Council: The town council shall hold a public
hearing on all petitions for zone changes and all amendments to the subdivision
and master planned development code. Following the hearing, the town council
shall approve, disapprove or modify and approve the recommendation of the
planning commission. The hearing may be continued, if necessary, without
republication of notice. The recommendations of the planning commission are
advisory only, and the town council may overrule the recommendations of the
planning commission. Town council action on amendments to this title or to the
zoning map require the affirmative vote of three (3) or more town council
members. The town council may act on the petition at the time of the hearing or
at subsequently scheduled meetings. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code; Ord. 20-
02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-6: NOTICES:
Notice of hearings before the town council, planning commission and appeal
authority concerning amendments to the general plan, zoning and zone changes,
amendments to the subdivision and master planned development code, preliminary
and final subdivision and condominium plat approvals, master planned
development approvals, temporary use permits, certificates of appropriateness
for design or demolition, appeals, variances and other requests of actions of
the appeal authority shall be provided in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 10-9a-201 et seq. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code; Ord. 20-02, 3-17-
2020)
9-1-7: CREATION OF DISTRICTS AND ZONE MAP:
In order to carry out the purposes of this title, zone districts have been
established as set forth in chapter 7, articles A through E, of this title.
These zone districts are identified on the official zoning map, which is
adopted as a part of this title. In interpreting the zoning map, the following
standards shall apply:
   A.   The zoning boundary lines are intended to conform to existing property
boundary lines when not in a public right of way, or to follow the centerline
of public rights of way (including prescriptive rights of way), unless the
lines are located by specific dimensions, in which case the dimensions shall
control. Where the zoning district lines approximately follow the lot lines as
they exist at the date of adoption of this title, the district lines shall be
conformed to the lot lines.
   B.   Where the zoning district lines appear to have intentionally divided a
lot or parcel between two (2) or more districts, the applicable zoning for each
portion of the lot or parcel shall be determined by using the scale shown on
the map. If the placement of the district line cannot be determined, the
standards of the zone allowing the less intensive land use shall be applied to
the entire parcel.
   C.   Where the district lines are intended to follow natural land contours,
such as the ridge tops, hillsides or waterways, the line shall be determined at
the point at which the general slope of the land changes to fifteen percent
(15%) grade or in the case of waterways, the average centerline of the
waterway. In the event of a dispute as to the location of the change in grade,
the point shall be fixed with reference to topographic data submitted to the
town. Where land of less than fifteen percent (15%) slope is surrounded by land
of fifteen percent (15%) or greater slope, the planning commission shall
entertain an application to rezone the land of less than fifteen percent (15%)
slope to a suitable residential use if the town staff determines that the land
is adequately accessible and not within a sensitive lands overlay zone or
designation, and one access of which is a road of standard width that does not
exceed eight percent (8%) grade, and that the grading of the road or roads to
reach the land in question will not create hydrologic, erosion, geologic or
similar hazards for land lying below the proposed road, and that all cuts and
fills for the road can be safely stabilized. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, partnership or corporation, or the principals or agents
thereof, violating or causing the violation of this title shall be guilty of a
class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, punished by a fine and/or
imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, the town shall be entitled to bring an action
to enjoin the continuation of the violation. Private citizens of the town or
property owners shall also have a right to file actions to enjoin the
continuation of a violation affecting their interest; provided, that the
plaintiff in such action shall give notice of the action to the town recorder
prior to filing the action. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
9-1-9: LICENSING:
All departments, officials and public employees of the town who are vested with
the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses, including business
licenses, shall conform to the provisions of this title, and shall issue
licenses and permits only in conformance with the provisions of this title.
Licenses issued in violation of this title shall take no effect, and are null
and void. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-1-10: ZONING MAP ADOPTED:
The zoning map for the town, as presented to the town council and executed by
the mayor, is the official zoning map for Corinne City. Upon amendment to the
zoning map, the mayor shall execute a new map, or reexecute the existing map
with the amendments noted thereon, in a timely manner. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-1-11: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
No building permit shall be issued for any building project unless the plans
for the proposed structure have been submitted to and approved by the planning
commission. Proposals submitted to the planning commission shall be reviewed
according to the permitted use review process, which includes master planned
developments. Subdivisions, including master planned developments, are reviewed
by planning commission for approval. Final approval of subdivisions must be
granted by the town council. No planning review shall occur until all
applicable planning application fees have been paid, and no final town council
approval shall be effective until all other fees assessed by this title or
other ordinance, including applicable staff or planning consultant review and
engineering fees, have been paid. Upon issuance of final approval under either
review process, the plans are forwarded to the building official for building
permit issuance under the provisions of the international building code. (Ord.,
1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-12: PERMITTED USE REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Determination By Planning Commission:
      1.   On any proposal to construct a building or other improvement to
property which is defined by this title as a permitted use in the zone in which
the building is proposed, the planning commission or staff shall review the
submission to determine whether the proposal:
         a.   Is a permitted use within the zone for which it is proposed;
         b.   Complies with the requirements of that zone for building height,
setback, side and rear yards, and lot coverage;
         c.   The applicable parking requirements have been satisfied;
         d.   The plan conforms to any architectural design guidelines
established for that zone or area;
         e.   Will require an environmental impact statement if it lies in a
sensitive lands area as defined in chapter 10 of this title;
         f.   Has met the requirements of the infrastructure review process as
defined in section
9-1-13 of this chapter;
         g.   Will require a certificate of appropriateness from the design
review committee as outlined in section
9-3-30 of this title;
         h.   Will require a certificate from the technical review committee as
outlined in section
9-3-31 of this title.
      2.   Upon finding that the proposal complies with the applicable zoning
requirements, and can be adequately serviced by existing utility systems or
lines, the plans shall be reviewed for building code compliance and permit
issuance. If the submission does not comply with the requirements of the zone,
the planning commission shall so notify the owner of the project or his agent,
if any, stating specifically what requirements of the zone have not been
satisfied, and also stating whether the project should be reviewed as submitted
for that zone.
   B.   The application for a building permit shall contain the following
information, in addition to information required by the international building
code:
      1.   When a structure is to be built, the footing and foundation details,
site plan and elevations of all sides of the structure shall be submitted with
the application, and all fees paid, prior to excavation.
      2.   A site plan showing the lot and the location of the proposed
structure on the lot. The site plan must be drawn to scale. A certified survey
shall be required on projects with structures on or near the lot lines, or when
the lot lines are difficult to determine from existing plats and monuments.
Topographic data may be required when the site is sloping or when the building
height cannot be readily determined from the elevations without topographic
data.
      3.   A legal description of the property with a statement of the name and
current address of the owner or responsible agent, and a telephone number.
      4.   The location of the proposed structure by street address or by
reference to existing structures so that the location can be identified and
assigned a street address.
      5.   The location of adjacent utility lines.
      6.   Approval of permitted uses shall be noted by the issuance of a
building permit in compliance with the provisions of the international building
code and this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-13: REVIEW AND REGULATIONS FOR IMPACT ON PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURES:
   A.   Infrastructure Review:
      1.   Although the town endeavors to provide infrastructure which will
adequately serve buildings and structures allowable within each zone in the
town, certain buildings, developments and structures, because of size, type of
construction or lot characteristics, present peculiar or excessive demands on
town infrastructure. For these reasons, the developer is responsible to perform
an impact analysis in a form and methodology acceptable to the town to
determine the possible impacts on infrastructure.
      2.   In order for the town to determine whether existing infrastructure
is adequate, or what additional infrastructure is needed to meet the particular
needs of certain types and sizes of buildings and structures which are
permitted uses in the zone, the following types and sizes of proposed buildings
and structures, as well as developments, are subject to the review process for
impact on existing infrastructure, whether the uses are permitted or
conditional:
         a.   All commercial or multi-family buildings or structures of class
III, IV or V construction, as defined by the international building code,
greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet; or
         b.   Any building or structure over ten thousand (10,000) square feet
within fire separations as defined in the international building code; or
         c.   All commercial or multi-family buildings and structures located
on parcels of one-half (1/2) acre or larger; or
         d.   All buildings or structures which are required to have fire
sprinkling systems under the town or fire district ordinance or resolution; or
         e.   All buildings or structures located on lots which have an average
slope of more than five percent (5%); or
         f.   Any industrial or manufacturing facility that deals with products
or processing materials that are or could become explosive, flammable or toxic
according to the international fire code; or
         g.   Any subdivision or master planned development (MPD) project with
four (4) or more dwelling units, but not including minor subdivisions or minor
MPDs; or
         h.   Any development that requires the extension of any public
infrastructures or utilities of over eight hundred feet (800'); or
         i.   A market analysis is required for all subdivisions or master
planned developments of four (4) unit equivalents or more; or of five (5) acres
or more in scope.
   B.   Scope Of Review: For proposed buildings, structures or uses which are
permitted in the zone in which the building or structure is proposed, the
review shall include the determination of the ability of existing town
infrastructure to provide adequate water for culinary, irrigation and fire flow
purposes, the proper handling of snow melt, snow storage, storm drainage, slope
preservation, mitigation of impact on roads by construction and permanent
traffic, and ensuring safe access for users and emergency vehicles in
accordance with town codes, standards and ordinances as set forth in this code,
which shall be in addition to all other adopted codes and ordinances, including
the codes of other jurisdictional governing authorities. For master planned
developments in the zone in which the building, structure or use is proposed,
the infrastructure review which is a part of the master plan development review
process is specified below and may involve additional regulations. The
technical review committee may be used if constituted as per this title, to
assist in the infrastructure impact review process.
   C.   Review Procedure: Buildings and structures which, although are
permitted uses in the zone proposed and not subject to zoning of use review,
are subject to review for impact on existing infrastructure according to the
standards described in this section. The following review procedure shall be
followed:
      1.   Application For Building Permit: Upon making an application for a
building permit, the applicant shall supply the planning commission with plans
and specifications sufficiently detailed to determine whether the proposed
building or structure is subject to further infrastructure review. If,
according to the standards found in this section, any proposed building or
structure triggers infrastructure impact review, then the permit shall not be
issued. The planning commission or other town staff shall review for the impact
of the proposed building and structure on existing town and/or other
infrastructure to determine what, if any, additional infrastructure is
necessary.
      2.   Information Requested: Upon referral of the application for a
building permit to the town for infrastructure impact review, the town may
request from the applicant any additional studies, plans, surveys,
specifications and information necessary to review the infrastructure impacts.
The following types of information may be requested by the planning commission
to the extent relevant:
         a.   To determine the impact on drainage:
            (1)   A map of the site showing the existing conditions prior to
the demolition of any existing structures and any grading, and any known
geologic or natural hazards, with north arrow and scale;
            (2)   Topography with contours shown at intervals of not more than
five feet (5') of the site and as the site adjoins contiguous properties;
            (3)   Vegetation type and location;
            (4)   Soil type and load carrying capacity information;
            (5)   100-year floodplain and high ground water areas, known spring
and seep areas, and ditches or canals;
            (6)   All existing roads, fences, irrigation ditches and drainage
facilities;
            (7)   Location and size of the nearest storm drainage facilities
the site could drain to; water lines and sanitary sewer lines; and where and
how the developer proposes to connect to the existing drains;
            (8)   Site plan of the proposed buildings and structures showing
building locations;
            (9)   Proposed road locations and other circulation features;
            (10)   Proposed finished grades;
            (11)   Proposed drainage, drainage works, detention ponds,
retaining walls and erosion control plans;
         b.   To determine the impact on culinary water, fire flows and sewage:
            (1)   Location and size of the nearest water main and sanitary
sewer lines to the project to which the project can drain or be supplied; and
where and how the applicant proposes to connect to the systems;
            (2)   Site plan and floor elevations (including building height) of
all proposed buildings and structures showing building locations, construction
type and materials;
            (3)   Proposed easements for new utility services or relocated
utility services;
            (4)   Fire hydrant locations and building sprinkling plans;
            (5)   Estimated peak culinary water demands, including irrigation
and water demand for fire flows;
            (6)   Proof of "wet" water in adequate quantity and quality,
acceptable to the town standards, if the developer is supplying his/her own
water or is transferring water rights to the town culinary system;
            (7)   Other specific information and scientific data and opinions
which, in the opinion of the planning commission, is useful or necessary for
the meaningful review of the project. Such additional information may be
required from the applicant based on the nature of the project or the site;
         c.   To determine the impact on slope retention:
            (1)   Topography existing before construction and proposed finished
grades, both on the site and as they relate to adjoining property;
            (2)   Proposed drainage, drainage works, retaining walls and
erosion control plans;
            (3)   Proposed landscaping;
            (4)   Complete, detailed construction drawings and support
documentation of any and all structures sufficient to demonstrate compliance
with applicable standards, codes and ordinances, or general architectural
concept drawings of proposed buildings, showing roof plan and cuts and fills;
            (5)   Other specific information and scientific data and opinions
which, in the opinion of the planning commission, is useful or necessary for
the meaningful review of the project. Such additional information may be
required from the applicant based on the nature of the project or the site;
         d.   To determine the impact on streets and pedestrian facilities:
            (1)   Prepare a site plan which coordinates pedestrian connections,
sidewalks and hike paths if any such pedestrian facilities are shown on the
trails master plan or the streets master plan, if they are currently adopted;
            (2)   Submit construction staging location plan;
            (3)   Submit estimated truck traffic trip numbers for construction
traffic;
            (4)   If requested by the town engineer, the project applicant
shall submit reproducible measurable pavement quality testing analyses for each
street or roadway which will be utilized by any traffic generated by or
relating to the proposed project, including, but not limited to, construction
traffic. Such analyses will be submitted both before permit issuance and before
building occupancy, and shall use a nationally recognized pavement quality
testing machine as approved by the town engineer. Such analyses will be used to
determine construction impacts on existing streets at the end of construction
such that repairs can be made at the expense of the project proponents to
return the pavement to its original quality.
   D.   Department Action:
      1.   Within thirty (30) working days from the receipt of the complete
application, including all requested information for infrastructure impact
review, the planning commission and/or other appropriate town officials shall
have reviewed the project and determined whether existing infrastructure is
sufficient to adequately serve any proposed buildings or structures. If the
data is sent to an engineer or other consultant for determination of impacts,
the applicant shall pay the costs associated with the professional review.
      2.   If the existing infrastructure is adequate to serve any proposed
buildings or structures, then a building permit shall be issued in accordance
with the international building code and town ordinances. If, upon review,
existing infrastructure is found to be inadequate to serve any proposed
buildings or structures, the building permit shall be withheld. At the option
of the town, the applicant may either:
         a.   Change the type, scale or location of any and all proposed
buildings or structures in such a manner that existing infrastructure may
adequately serve all proposed buildings or structures; or
         b.   Provide at the applicant's expense the additional infrastructure
necessary to adequately serve all of applicant's proposed buildings or
structures according to designs and specifications approved by the town; or
         c.   Pay a proportionate share of a town project that would mitigate
the impact as detailed by the town council and/or its staff.
      3.   Upon submission of plans changing the type, scale or location of any
or all proposed buildings or structures in such a manner that existing
infrastructure is adequate to serve all proposed buildings or structures; or,
upon submitting plans for additional infrastructure and a letter of credit or
escrow agreement to the town for the full cost of the additional infrastructure
required, as estimated by the town engineer, a building permit shall be issued
in accordance with town codes and ordinances.
   E.   Appeal And Review:
      1.   If the applicant does not agree with the determination of the
planning commission or town staff that existing infrastructure is inadequate,
or with the requirement for additional infrastructure, the applicant may
request town council review. The town council is empowered to affirm, reverse
or modify the determination of the planning commission, town staff or town
engineer/consultant. All actions regarding infrastructure impacts and the
requirements of the planning commission or town staff are appealable to the
town council.
      2.   If the planning commission or town staff has not acted on an
application or has not indicated to the applicant what existing infrastructure
is inadequate within thirty (30) working days after complete information
submission, the application shall be automatically forwarded to the planning
commission for determination of adequacy of existing infrastructure.
   F.   Transferability: The infrastructure review and approval is transferable
with the title to the underlying property so that an approved project may be
conveyed or assigned by the applicant to others without losing the approval.
The permit cannot be transferred off the site on which the approval was
granted.
   G.   Expiration: If a building permit is not obtained within twelve (12)
months from the date of approval, then the infrastructure review and approval
process must be repeated prior to issuance of a building permit. If a building
permit expires before actual construction of buildings or structures, the
infrastructure review and approval process must be repeated prior to issuance
of another building permit. If a permit is not taken in six (6) months, the
review shall determine whether off site conditions or demands have changed the
ability of the system to meet the demands of the project under review. The
permit requirements may be modified to adjust to the new capacity or demand.
   H.   Standards For Review: No building permits shall be issued on buildings
and structures subjected to infrastructure review unless it is found by the
town that there is sufficient infrastructure capacity, according to the
standards adopted by the town, either existing or to be provided by the
applicant, to adequately serve the proposed buildings and structures. Specific
review items include: delivery of adequate water for culinary and fire flow
purposes, safe vehicular and pedestrian access for owners, users and emergency
vehicles, and proper handling of snowmelt and storm drainage and slope
preservation. The standards to be applied for review are:
      1.   Standards For Water Delivery: The standards for adequate delivery of
water shall be as applicable: the town fire flow standards, if adopted; the
fire department fire flow standards; the ISO or NFPA standards for fire flow,
the town design standards, construction specifications and standard drawings,
if adopted; and the county and/or state department of health, drinking water
regulations, as now constituted and as may be amended.
      2.   Standards For Site Drainage: The standards for adequate site
drainage are the international building code, or its successor, and the town
design standards, construction specifications and standard drawings as now
constituted or as may be adopted or amended.
      3.   Standards For Access: The standards for access to the building or
structure are the international fire code or its successor, the streets master
plan or land use map, the trails master plan, if adopted, and the town design
standards, construction specifications and standard drawings as now constituted
or as may be adopted or amended.
      4.   Standards For Slope Retention: The standards for slope retention are
the international building code, or its successor, and the town design
standards, construction specifications and standard drawings as now constituted
or as may be amended. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-14: [RESERVED]:
 
9-1-15: MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS:
Applications for developments to be built according to a master plan which
provides for mixes of uses and/or density transfers, clustering and unit
concentrations and/or maximizing of permanent open space within the site
commonly referred to as "planned unit development" (without regard to the
manner in which title to the project will be held) shall be divided into two
(2) review processes depending on the size and nature of the project. These
review processes are described as follows:
   A.   Minor Master Planned Development Review: If an MPD meets the same
qualifications in size and definition of a "minor subdivision" as described in
this title and does not necessitate the creation of large public infrastructure
to meet its needs, the MPD may be classified as a minor master planned
development, and the planning commission may waive many of the requirements of
the MPD review process, including off site infrastructure concurrency and
bonding requirements. These types of projects are reviewed as minor master
planned developments. The review process is subject to any applicable
requirements of chapter 9 of this title.
   B.   Master Planned Development Review: Those projects having more than four
(4) unit equivalents and/or fifteen percent (15%) or more of the total project
floor area (exclusive of parking) devoted to nonresidential uses, or five (5)
acres or more in scope shall be reviewed as master planned developments
according to the procedure described in this title. Impact analysis and market
analysis are required. The nature of the density transfers and zoning
concessions within the project are set forth in chapter 9 of this title. The
substantive requirements for master planned developments are described in
chapter 9 of this title.
   C.   Sensitive Lands Review: If a master planned development is located
within the sensitive lands overlay zone, or designated area, additional
requirements and regulations may apply. See the sensitive lands provisions in
chapter 10 of this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-16: APPEALS AND REVIEW PROCESS:
Decisions by the planning commission or town council regarding master planned
developments and zoning decisions, or application of this title, may be
appealed to the appeal authority. Any person within the town who believes he/
she may be adversely affected by a decision of the town council or planning
commission regarding the application of the decision or this title, and/or the
owner of the subject property affected, shall have standing to appeal a
decision of the planning commission and/or town council. Appeals from town
actions shall be by letter or petition and contain the name, address and
telephone number of the petitioner, his or her relationship to the project or
subject property, and the reasons for requesting review, including specific
provisions of this title, if known, that are violated by the action taken.
   A.   Written Findings Of Denial Required: The planning commission or town
council shall always prepare detailed written findings on any application that
it denies, amends or approves. These findings shall state the reasons for the
action and the provisions of this title or other town ordinances, or
guidelines, or applicable state or federal laws or regulations that would be
violated by the action, and the proposed conditions of action to be imposed and
the reasons why those conditions were thought necessary. These findings shall
then be made available to the appeal authority for their use in the appeal
process.
   B.   Appeal Petitions Process: Besides the owner of the property acted on by
the town, any person living within the town who submitted written comment on a
proposal before the planning commission or town council, and the owner of any
property within the town, has the right to appeal to the appeal authority any
final decision of the planning commission or the town council. The petition
must be filed in writing with the town recorder within fifteen (15) calendar
days of final project action. The petition for the appeal shall state the name,
address and telephone number of the petitioner and his/her agent, if any, the
name of the project, and the grounds for the appeal. The town shall set a date
for the appeal, which shall be no more than thirty (30) calendar days from the
date the notice of appeal is filed with the town recorder and meet the notice
requirements of section
9-1-6 of this chapter. The town recorder shall notify the petitioner and the
owner of the project of the appeal date. The town recorder shall obtain the
findings from the planning commission, town council and all other pertinent
information and transmit them to the appeal authority.
   C.   Action On Petitions: The appeal authority may affirm, reverse or affirm
in part and reverse in part any decision of the planning commission or town
council regarding zoning decisions. The appeal authority may remand the matter
to the planning commission and/or town council with directions for specific
areas of review or clarification. Appeal authority review of petitions of
appeal shall be limited to consideration of only those matters raised by the
petition, unless the board by motion, enlarges the scope of the appeal to
accept information on other matters it may legally hear.
   D.   Stay Of Approval Pending Review Or Appeal: Upon the filing of a
nonowner petition or a petition by the owner for appeal or review by the appeal
authority of a planning commission or town council decision, any action passed
on this matter by the planning commission or town council will be suspended
until the appeal authority has acted on the appeal.
   E.   Appeal From Appeal Authority: The owner of any project, or any person
aggrieved by the approval of any project, may appeal from the final action by
the appeal authority affecting the project by filing a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction. The decision of the board shall stand, and those
affected by the decision may act in reliance on it unless and until the court
enters an interlocutory or final order stating the effectiveness of that
decision.
   F.   Finality Of Action: If no appeal has been taken at the end of fifteen
(15) days from the date of final action by the town council, planning
commission or town staff, the action is final. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-
02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-17: TERMINATION OF PROJECTS:
It is the policy of the town to require developers submitting projects to the
planning process to move their projects to either approval or denial in a
reasonably expeditious manner. The time required in the planning review process
will vary with the size and complexity of each proposal, and the establishment
of exact time requirements for review is impractical. It is the policy of the
town to formally deny projects submitted to the process which remain inactive
for long periods of time due to acts or omissions of the developer.
   A.   Denial And Closure; Notice Required: When the planning commission
believes that a project that has been formally submitted is not making normal
progress towards final approval, they shall deny the project application and
close the files with respect to that project. No action shall be taken by the
planning commission for denial on the basis of inaction without giving sixty
(60) days' written notice to the developer and the responsible agent by
certified mail. Such notice shall state the intent of the planning commission
to have the project denied because of inaction and the time, place and date
when the matter will be taken up by the planning commission.
   B.   Inaction Defined:
      1.   A project shall be deemed inactive and subject to denial on the
basis of inactivity if, through the act or omission of the developer and not
the town:
         a.   More than three (3) months have passed since the last meeting of
the planning commission and the developer;
         b.   More than three (3) months have passed since a request for
additional information was made by the planning commission which request has
not been complied with or the developer's reasons for noncompliance are not
stated;
         c.   The developer is more than sixty (60) days in default of the
payment of any fee assessed by ordinance, or has not paid the fee under
protest;
         d.   The developer has stated his intent to abandon the project;
         e.   The project appears to have been abandoned; or
         f.   The application appears to have been filed in bad faith for the
purpose of attempting to vest rights prior to a zoning change or title change,
without actual intent to construct the project applied for.
      2.   Delays occasioned entirely by internal delays of the town or any
commission or board shall not be cause for termination.
   C.   Reinstatement: A developer may appeal the planning commission denial of
a project for inactivity to the town council, or the action may be called up by
the town council. The town council may reinstate subject to payment of full or
partial submission fees, reinstate subject to specific ordinance changes, or
deny reinstatement. If reinstatement is denied, all interest in the application
ends. If the developer desires to proceed with the project, he must start at
the beginning of the process with a new submission and payment of new
submission fees, and shall be subject to all ordinances then in effect. (Ord.,
1-18-2005)
9-1-18: APPEARANCE BEFORE BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COUNCILS:
All persons speaking before any town agency, department, committee, commission
or board, or the town council, on behalf of the owner of any project shall
provide reasonable evidence of their agency relationship with the owner. This
agency shall be presumed if the spokesman is associated with the architect or
engineer whose name appears on the plans, or if the owner is present. The
planning commission may request other persons appearing to speak in any agency
position with any project to provide a statement signed by the owner indicating
the nature of the relationship and the authority of the agent to make decisions
or representations concerning the project. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-1-19: VARIANCES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
Any variances or special exceptions to this title shall be granted only by the
appeal authority under the provisions of chapter 5 of this title prior to the
issuance of any master planned development, or other approval by the planning
commission. All action on an application shall be stayed upon learning that a
variance or special exception is required, until the applicant shall have
obtained the variance or special exception, or his request is denied by the
appeal authority. Appeals from final action of the appeal authority shall be
made to the district court as provided by state law and not to the town
council. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-20: RELATION TO PRIOR DEVELOPMENT AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The procedures set forth in this title are intended to supersede any
inconsistent procedural provisions in the previous development and subdivision
ordinance. The substantive requirements of the application form and the review
process shall remain unchanged, but all final actions under that ordinance are
subject to the appeal processes set forth herein, and all applications for
subdivision approval are subject to termination as set forth herein. (Ord., 1-
18-2005)
9-1-21: VESTING OF ZONING RIGHTS:
   A.   Application And Fee: Upon payment of the required application fees and
submission of a completed application, as determined by the planning
commission, an applicant shall be entitled to have the filed application
reviewed and acted upon pursuant to the terms of the subdivision and master
planned development code, or development code and zoning map, in effect at the
time of filing of the application, subject to the exceptions set forth in
subsection D of this section. The applicant may take advantage of changes in
this title and zoning map that would permit greater density or more intense use
of the land; provided, however, that these changes may be deemed a modification
of the plan and require the payment of additional planning review fees.
   B.   Nonzoning Matters: Nonzoning related matters, including, but not
limited to, site development standards, procedural requirements and building
code requirements, will not vest until complete building permit applications
have been filed and required fees have been paid. Water and sewer connection
availability, costs of water and sewer connection and water development fees,
and applicable impact fees and other charges, will vest only upon payment of
the building permit application fees and submission of all the materials
necessary for the issuance of a building permit.
   C.   Termination: Vesting of all permits and approvals terminates upon the
expiration or termination of the permit or approval.
   D.   Exceptions: Applicants shall not be entitled to review and approval of
applications pursuant to the terms of this title in effect at the time of
application when revisions to this title are pending at the time of application
which would prohibit or further condition the approval sought, or when there
exists a compelling reason for applying a new standard or requirement
retroactively to the time of application. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-1-22: PLAT APPROVAL:
On all projects requiring the recording of a plat or record of survey map under
applicable state law, the plat shall conform to the following standards before
approval will be granted by the town:
   A.   Owner Execution: A subdivision plat must be signed by the owner of the
property and all persons claiming an interest in the property within the plat,
including those holding a security interest in the property, excluding mechanic
liens and judgment liens. A condominium plat need not be signed by those
holding security interest in the property. All owners' signatures must be
legally acknowledged.
   B.   Contents Of Plat: The plat must have signature blocks for the mayor,
town engineer, fire department, school district, attorney, planning commission
chairperson, county surveyor and county recorder's use. The survey data and
accuracy of the plat must be certified by a licensed surveyor and the plat must
bear the surveyor's official stamp.
   C.   Submission: The submission for plat approval must be accompanied by any
covenants, declarations, easements, dedications of rights of way, or similar
documents that are in addition to the contents of the plat. The submission must
also be accompanied by a current title report showing the persons having an
interest in the property, and verifying the ownership is consistent with the
ownership as indicated on the plat. The legal descriptions of the property must
also be consistent among the plat, declarations or covenants and title report.
   D.   Recording: Upon granting of final approval by the town, the town
recorder shall release the fully executed plat and the declaration and
covenants to the title company designated by the developer for recording. The
town shall have the obligation to advance recording fees, but may deliver the
plats to the county directly rather than through the developer's designated
title company. No plat shall be recorded until the recorder has verified that
all fees relative to the project have been paid, including the final
engineering bills from the plat approval if applicable.
   E.   Effect Of Approval: In approving the plat, the town and its officers
and agents are only certifying to substantial compliance with the statute and
ordinances regarding the recording of plats and the prior approval of the
project as being in compliance with local zoning ordinances. The town does not
make any representation concerning the accuracy of the information presented in
the plat drawn by the developer, nor the value of the project. (Ord., 1-18-
2005)
9-1-23: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Nonconforming Use Defined: As used in this title, a "nonconforming use"
is the use of any building, structure or land which is prohibited by any
zoning, building or other regulatory ordinances, but which was lawfully
existing prior to the effective date of such ordinance. Residential uses and
residential structures occupied for residential purposes or vacant at the time
of adoption of these provisions shall be exempted from the provisions of this
title. This shall not be construed to allow new residential construction except
as provided by the provisions of the respective zones.
   B.   Nonconforming Use Of Open Land: A nonconforming use of land lawfully
existing on the effective date of this title may be continued, provided such
nonconforming use shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of a
conforming building or open land, and no structures, additions, alterations or
enlargements thereto shall be made thereon, except those required by law. If
said nonconforming use is discontinued for a continuous period of more than six
(6) months, any future use of such land shall conform to the provisions of the
zone in which it is located.
   C.   Nonconforming Buildings:
      1.   A nonconforming building in any zone may be continued for the period
prescribed in this section, provided no additions or enlargements are made
thereto and no structural alterations are made therein, except as allowed by a
conditional use permit.
         a.   Granting the expansion will not adversely impact the attainment
of the general plan.
         b.   The expansion will improve the general appearance or safety of
the area.
         c.   By expanding the building, the character of the neighborhood is
not adversely impacted.
         d.   The expansion will improve the area by providing additional or
adequate parking.
         e.   Any expansion will be adequately screened or buffered, if needed,
so as not to increase impacts to the adjoining properties.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, an existing single-
family dwelling, nonconforming as to side yard requirements but having a
minimum side yard of not less than three feet (3'), may be extended in depth
along the nonconforming building line to a maximum of one-half (1/2) the length
of the existing dwelling if such extension is for the purpose of enlarging and
maintaining the existing dwelling or required parking, and provided such
enlargement does not increase any other nonconformity which may exist and
conforms to all other regulations of the zone in which it is located.
      3.   If a nonconforming building is removed, every future use of the land
on which the building was located shall conform to the provisions of this
title.
   D.   Nonconforming Use Of Conforming Buildings:
      1.   The nonconforming use of any conforming building lawfully existing
on the effective date hereof may be continued, provided such nonconforming use
shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of the conforming
building, nor shall any structural alterations except those required by law be
made, and if such nonconforming use is discontinued for a continuous period of
more than six (6) months, any future use of such building shall conform to the
provisions of the zone in which it is located.
      2.   A building or structure nonconforming as to use regulations shall
not be added to or enlarged in any manner if the expansion involves any
structural alteration of the building. Subject to the provisions of this title,
the use of a building or structure may be expanded if the following standards
are met:
         a.   The expansion of the use will not adversely impact the
surrounding properties.
         b.   The proposed expansion is compatible with the surroundings.
         c.   The site of the proposed expansion conforms to all site
development requirements as physically possible, given existing site
limitations.
         d.   The proposed expansion shall not create new nonconformity.
         e.   No expansion of a nonconforming use shall be allowed which would
extend beyond the original lot or tract of land.
   E.   Nonconforming Use Of Nonconforming Buildings: The nonconforming use of
a nonconforming building lawfully existing on the effective date of this title
may be continued for the period prescribed in this section, and may be expanded
or extended throughout such building, provided no structural alterations except
those required by law are made therein. If no structural alterations are made
or required, a nonconforming use of a nonconforming building may be changed to
another use of the same or more restrictive classification. If such
nonconforming use is discontinued for a continuous period of more than one
year, any future use of the building shall conform to the provisions of this
title and of the zone in which it is located.
   F.   Change In Status Of Nonconforming Use: If a nonconforming use is
vacated, it may be succeeded by an equally restrictive or more restrictive
nonconforming use, provided such change is effected within six (6) months.
After a change to a more restrictive use is in effect, that change shall be
evidence that the less restrictive nonconforming use has been abandoned and
thereupon loses any vested right as such, and the degree of nonconformity may
not subsequently be increased by changing back to a less restrictive use.
   G.   Reconstruction Of Nonconforming Building Partially Destroyed: A
nonconforming building destroyed to the extent of not more than fifty percent
(50%) of its reasonable replacement value at the time of its destruction by
fire, explosion or other casualty or act of God or public enemy, may be
restored and the occupancy or use of such building or part thereof which
existed at the time of such partial destruction may be continued subject to all
of the provisions of this title.
   H.   Nonconformance Limited To Zone Groups: Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this title, no uses permitted in any one of the residential or
agricultural zones and lawfully existing in any one of the residential or
agricultural zones at the time of the effective date of this title shall be
considered nonconforming in the zone in which it is located; no uses permitted
in any one of the business zones at the time of the effective date of this
title shall be considered nonconforming in the zone in which it is located.
This section shall be applicable only to nonconforming uses. (Ord., 1-18-2005;
amd. 2007 Code; Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-1-24: REPEALER, SAVING CLAUSE AND CONTINUATION OF PRIOR ORDINANCES:
   A.   1998 Corinne City Development Code: The Corinne City zoning and
development code of 1998, enacted by the town, is hereby amended and recodified
in its entirety to read as herein provided by this title.
   B.   Continuation Of Prior Ordinances: The amendment of all zoning and/or
development ordinances heretofore enacted by the town shall not:
      1.   Affect suits pending or rights of the town existing immediately
prior to the effective date hereof.
      2.   Impair, void or affect any grant or conveyance made or right
acquired or cause of action as of the effective date hereof or now existing.
   C.   Continuation Of Similar Provisions: The provisions of this title,
insofar as they are the same or substantially the same as any prior ordinances,
shall be construed as a continuation of the prior ordinance.
   D.   Severability: If any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of
this title shall be declared unlawful by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses,
sentences, paragraphs and sections of this title.
   E.   Effective Date: This title shall become effective retroactive to
December 21, 1999. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-1-25: CONFLICTS WITHIN TITLE:
   A.   Every effort is made by the town to ensure that this title is readable,
understandable and contains as few defects as possible. If however, any
conflicts, defects, inconsistencies or ambiguities are found within different
sections and/or chapters of this title, the planning commission shall follow
the section or wording that is more restrictive, stringent or of a higher
standard as defined or interpreted by the planning commission.
   B.   The planning commission shall then make every effort to amend this
title to further clarify or repair the defect, conflict, inconsistency or
ambiguity. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms and
words used herein shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth in this
chapter. Where definitions are given in another chapter or section of this
title that apply to only that section or chapter, those definitions shall apply
first. In some instances, words or terms that have a definition in this chapter
may show in quotes elsewhere in this title.
Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the present
tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number include the
singular; the word "herein" means "in these regulations"; the word
"regulations" means "these regulations"; the word "title" means "this title".
A "person" includes a corporation, a partnership, a limited company, a limited
liability company, and an incorporated association of persons such as a club;
"shall" is always mandatory; a "building" includes a "structure"; a "building"
or "structure" includes any part thereof; "used" or "occupied" as applied to
any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended,
arranged or designed to be used or occupied".
ACCESS: The provision of vehicular and/or pedestrian ingress and egress to
structures or facilities.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building upon the same lot (or on a contiguous lot under
the same ownership) as the principal building and which is: a) clearly
incidental to, and customarily found in connection with such principal building
or use; and b) is operated and maintained for the benefit or convenience of the
owners, occupants, employees, customers or visitors of the lot with the
principal use.
ACCESSORY USE: A use conducted on the same lot as the principal use or
structure with which it is associated; and is a use which is clearly incidental
to and is customarily found in connection with such principal use; and is
either in the same ownership as such principal use or is maintained and
operated on the same lot substantially for the benefit or convenience of the
owners, occupants, employees, customers or visitors of the principal use. No
accessory use shall be allowed on any lot or parcel unless the permitted use is
being actively utilized.
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT: A permit issued by the planning staff, planning
commission or building official for specified uses after compliance with
applicable zoning or development code regulations is determined.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops and animals for
private, commercial or industry, horticulture and gardening, except household
pets, and not including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit
packing plants, animal hospitals or similar uses.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve secondary
access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on
some other street.
ANTENNA: A device for sending and/or receiving radio, television, data or
similar communication signals.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A multiple dwelling. See definition of Dwelling, Multi-Family.
APPLICANT: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided and/or developed or his/
her representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the
premises.
APPLICATION: A form or checklist supplied by the planning department,
indicating the data and information necessary to process the applicant's
proposed project.
ARTERIAL: A road intended to allow through traffic to and from such major
attractions as central business districts, regional shopping centers, colleges
and/or universities, military installations, major industrial areas, and
similar traffic generators and/or as a route for traffic between communities or
large areas.
ATTACHED BUILDING: Units connected on one or more sides to an adjacent unit or
units by a common party wall with separate exterior entrance for all units.
This shall apply to commercial as well as residential units.
BALCONY: A platform that projects from the wall of a building and is surrounded
by a railing or balustrade.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A dwelling, including those dwellings of historical
significance, in which two (2) to eight (8) rooms are rented out by the day,
offering overnight lodging to travelers, and where one or more meals are
provided to the guests only, the price of which may be included in the room
rate.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad or utility rights of way, shorelines or
waterways, or boundary lines of municipalities.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel, cafe or restaurant with two (2)
or more bedrooms where, for direct or indirect compensation, lodging and/or
kitchen facilities or meals are provided for boarders and/or roomers not
related to the head of the household by marriage, adoption or blood.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
BUILDING AND ZONING INSPECTOR OR OFFICIAL: The person designated by the town to
enforce the zoning ordinance and development codes as enacted by the town. If
no administrative assistant to the planning commission is appointed to
administer these regulations, the building inspector or official shall
administer these regulations.
BUILDING, ATTACHED: See definition of Attached Building.
BUILDING, DETACHED: Any building or structure separated from another building
on the same lot by at least six feet (6').
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building, or one of the principal buildings on a
lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use
upon a lot.
BUILDING PAD LINE: The building pad line denotes that area within which the
entire new structure must lie. The area of construction disturbance
attributable to the structure (as opposed to utilities installation) may not
extend beyond ten feet (10') from the building pad line.
BUILDING, PUBLIC: Structures constructed by or intended for use by the general
public such as libraries, museums, municipal or public works buildings, etc.
BUSINESS OFFICES: Any site or location which provides space for the
transactions, service or administration by a commercial enterprise and/or where
storage of goods and sale of merchandise is minimal and secondary to
performance of the service.
CANOPY: A roofed structure constructed of fabric or other material placed so as
to extend outward from a building providing a protective shield for doors,
windows and other openings, supported by the building and supports extended to
the ground directly under the canopy or cantilevered from the building.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM: A proposed schedule of all future projects listed
in order of construction priority, together with cost estimates and the
anticipated means of financing each project. All major projects requiring the
expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual local government
operating expenses, for the purchase, construction or replacement of the
physical assets for the community are included.
CHILD DAYCARE: The provision (day or night) of supplemental parental care,
instruction and supervision: a) for a nonrelated child or children; b) on a
regular basis; and c) for less than twenty four (24) hours a day. As used in
this title, the term is not intended to include babysitting services of a
casual, nonrecurring nature or in the child's own home. Likewise, the term is
not intended to include cooperative, reciprocative childcare by a group of
parents in their respective domiciles.
CHILDCARE CENTER: A center based facility in which the provision of child
daycare for thirteen (13) or more children occurs on a regular basis.
COLLECTOR ROADS: A road intended to move traffic from local roads to arterials.
A collector road serves a neighborhood or large subdivision and should be
designed so that no residential properties face onto it.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Facilities, land and yard areas identified within projects
for the use and enjoyment of all the residents and maintained and operated by
an organization of property holders of that project.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT: The division of the town staff and
administration which has the primary responsibility over planning, building,
engineering, zoning and development related services. This is the department
with the primary responsibility for project review, under the direction of the
mayor.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: The director of the community development
department with overall administrative control of the planning, building,
zoning and engineering functions of the town, under the direction of the mayor.
This person may also be the planning commission chairperson, building official
or the mayor.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use requiring special consideration and review in the manner
set forth in chapter 1 of this title.
CONDOMINIUM: Any structure which has been submitted to condominium ownership
under the provisions of the Utah condominium ownership act. This includes
residential, nonresidential and any other space.
CONSTRUCTION PLAN: The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the planning commission or
town engineer as a condition of the approval of the plat.
CONVALESCENT HOME: An institution other than a hospital wherein people may
gradually recover from an illness. (See definition of Nursing Home.)
COVERAGE: Lot area covered by a building.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement as well as
firefighting and other public safety equipment.
DEVELOPER: The person, persons, corporation, firm or partnership owning the
land proposed to be developed in any way, or a designated legal representative.
Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
DEVELOPMENT CREDITS: Points allocated to parcels of ground in certain districts
based on the parcel square footage. Development credits shall be used to
determine volume of allowed uses. Development credits are nontransferable.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed for use as the residence or
sleeping place of one or more persons or families with cooking and bathroom
facilities, but not including hotel, motel, lodge or nursing home rooms.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
(2) or more families living independently of each other in separate but
attached dwellings.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by only
one family; a structure having only one dwelling unit.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
EQUIVALENT POPULATION: A population estimate based upon the year round average
occupancy of all permanent and transient units.
ESCROW: A deposit of cash with the town or approved alternate entity in lieu of
an amount required and still in force as a performance or maintenance
guarantee. Such escrow funds shall be deposited in a separate account.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, or a group of not more than four (4) persons who are not related,
living in a dwelling unit as a single housekeeping unit.
FAMILY DAYCARE: The provision of child daycare for four (4) to six (6)
children, inclusive, including the provider's own children under the age of
eighteen (18), if they are cared for in the same area of the structure
designated for family daycare.
FAMILY GROUP DAYCARE: The provision of child daycare for seven (7) to twelve
(12) children, inclusive, including the provider's own children who are under
the age of eighteen (18), if they are cared for in the same area of the
structure designated for family group daycare.
FENCE: A structure constructed for reasons of privacy, security or aesthetics,
which is located in such a manner as to separate or divide areas. Includes
hedges and masonry walls and may or may not be sight obscuring or light tight.
FINAL APPROVAL: Final approval by the town council, board of adjustment or
planning commission of a plan, project, rezoning, use, activity or other action
that shall be given after all the requirements set out in the preliminary
approval have been met and after all concerns of the reviewing agency regarding
such plan, project, rezoning, use, activity or other action have been addressed
and answered. "Final approval" does not refer to plat approval unless the plat
is submitted simultaneously.
FINAL PLAT: The map or plan or record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material, as described in these regulations.
FLEXIBLE ZONING: Zoning which permits uses of land and density of buildings and
structures different from those which are allowed as of right within the zoning
district in which the land is situated. Flexible zoning applications shall
include, but not be limited to, all special permits and special uses, master
planned developments, group housing projects, community unit projects, average
density or density zoning projects, as this title may regulate.
FLOODPLAIN AREA: An area adjoining a river, stream or watercourse, or other
body of standing water in which a potential flood hazard exists due to
inundation or overflow of water having sufficient volume and velocity to
transport or deposit debris, scour the surface soil, dislodge or damage
buildings, or erode the banks of watercourses. Any area designated as a
floodplain by the department of housing and urban development or the federal
emergency management agency or any other agency of the United States government
or state and local government agencies, including Corinne City.
FLOOR AREA: The area of a building that is enclosed by surrounding exterior
walls, excluding a six hundred (600) square foot allowance for garages. It is
the intent of this definition to include lower levels into the floor area
calculation which are not true basements. A true basement has all four (4)
walls underground. Therefore, a lower level will be counted into the floor area
of a building if it is less than eighty percent (80%) underground or has an
outside door (including garage door) visible from public right of way. If an
entire lower level does not meet the criteria for exclusion from the floor area
calculation, no part of the lower level may be excluded. Unenclosed porches,
balconies, patios and decks will not be considered floor area. This definition
is for planning purposes only and may conflict with other methods of
calculating square footage such as the international building code.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The "floor area", as defined in this section, divided by the
total area of the lot or parcel on which the structure is situated.
FRONTAGE: That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as the
ordinary side on a corner lot.
FRONTAGE BLOCK: All property abutting one side of a street between intersecting
or intercepting streets or between a street and a right of way, waterway, end
of dead end street or political subdivision boundary measured along the street
line.
FRONTAGE STREET: Any street to be constructed by the developer or any existing
street in which development shall take place on both sides.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building, or a portion of a main
building, used for the storage of motor vehicles for the tenants or occupants
of a specific building and not by the general public.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or a portion thereof, other than a private garage,
used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling or storing motor
driven vehicles.
GENERAL PLAN: A comprehensive or general plan for development of the town,
prepared and adopted by the planning commission and town council, pursuant to
state law, and including land use maps or other suitable maps and/or any part
of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan, or parts
thereof.
GEOLOGIC HAZARD: A hazard inherent in the crust of the earth or artificially
created, which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life, property or
improvements, due to the movement, failure, flooding or shifting of the earth.
GOVERNING BODY: The governing body of the town (town council of Corinne City)
having the power to adopt, amend or rescind ordinances, including this title.
GRADE: The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in percentage
terms and calculated by dividing the difference in elevation between two (2)
points by the horizontal distance.
GRADE, NATURAL: Elevation of the existing surface of the land prior to
commencement of construction of any improvements proposed or any previous site
disturbance. Natural grade, when not readily established due to prior
modifications in terrain, shall be fixed by reference elevations and slopes at
points where the prior disturbance appears to meet the undisturbed portions of
the subject property or the adjacent property's undisturbed grade. The
estimated natural grade shall tie into the elevation and slopes of adjoining
properties without creating a need for new retaining walls, or abrupt
differences in the visual slope and elevation of the land; and not change the
direction or flow of runoff water. For the purpose of measuring the height of
any building from natural grade, the measurement shall be the vertical distance
from natural grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the
deck line of a mansard roof, or to a point midway between the lowest part of
the eaves or cornice and ridge of a hip roof. This measurement shall occur at
any point within the building plane where height occurs.
GUARANTEE: Any form of security, including a letter of credit, escrow
agreement, bond or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to
the town. All guarantees shall be approved by the town wherever required by
these regulations.
GUESTHOUSE: An accessory building intended for the habitation by nonrent paying
guests. Provides separate cooking and sleeping quarters and is maintained and
owned by the primary residence.
HABITABLE SPACE (ROOM): Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
space, and similar areas, are not considered habitable.
HARD SURFACED: Covered with concrete, asphalt or other impervious surface.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND HEALTH OFFICER: The agency and person designated by the
town to administer the health regulations of the town and/or county or state.
This may be the Box Elder County health department and director, or the
applicable department of health and director of the state of Utah.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance from natural undisturbed grade to the highest
point of a flat roof or to the deck line of mansard roof, or to a point midway
between the lowest part of the eaves or cornice and ridge of a hip roof. In no
case shall a mansard roof or the parapet wall of a flat roof extend more than
eighteen inches (18") above the deck line or maximum zone height, whichever is
lower. Roofs not fitting clearly in any of the above three (3) classifications
shall be classified by the planning commission in accordance with the roof it
most clearly resembles. Roofs which drain to the center shall be considered as
flat or mansard depending on their configuration.
HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS: A freeway or expressway, providing a trafficway for
through traffic in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property on
lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the same,
except at such points and in such manner as may be determined by the Utah
department of transportation having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
HOME OCCUPATION: See the supplementary regulations in chapter 3 of this title
for a detailed definition.
HOTEL/MOTEL: A building containing sleeping rooms for the temporary occupancy
of guests. Accessory facilities may include lobby, meeting rooms, recreation
facilities, group dining facilities and/or other facilities or activities
customarily associated with hotels or hotel apartments. This does not include
lockouts or boarding houses.
HOTEL ROOM: A unit consisting of one room, without a kitchen, intended for
temporary living and sleeping purposes and including a separate, exclusive
bathroom.
HOTEL SUITE: Two (2) interconnected rooms in a hotel with a single corridor or
exterior access and without a kitchen, intended for the temporary occupancy of
guests.
IMPACT ANALYSIS: A determination of the potential effect of a proposed
residential, commercial or industrial development upon the community and
services it must provide.
IMPROVEMENTS: See definition of Lot Improvement or Public Improvement.
IN-HOME BABYSITTING: The provision of child daycare for fewer than four (4)
children.
JOINT OWNERSHIP: Joint ownership among persons shall be construed as the same
owner or "constructive ownership" for the purpose of imposing subdivision
regulations.
KITCHEN: A room or space within a room equipped with such electrical or gas
hookup services which would enable the installation of a range, oven or like
appliance using 220/240 volts or natural gas (or similar fuels) for the
preparation of food.
LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE: The limits of disturbance line indicates the area within
which construction activity must be contained. Construction disturbance may not
extend beyond the limits of the disturbance line as indicated on the
subdivision plat and/or master plan (MPD) unless the planning commission has
amended the limit as per this title.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT: The town or town of Corinne City, Utah.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT ATTORNEY: See definition of Town Attorney.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEER: See definition of Town Engineer.
LOCAL ROAD: A road intended to provide access to other roads from individual
properties and to provide a right of way beneath it for sewer, water and storm
drainage pipes.
LOCKOUT ROOM: An area of a dwelling not to exceed one room with separate
exterior access and toilet facilities, but no kitchen. Such a room may, if
permitted, be rented independently of the main dwelling, but shall not be sold
independently. For density purposes, the lockout is counted as an additional
bedroom of the dwelling it is a part of, and not counted as an independent
unit. Nightly rental of lockout rooms is a conditional use.
LOT: A parcel or unit of land describable either by metes and bounds, or by
other legal plat designation held or intended to be held in separate ownership
or leasehold, or a parcel or unit of land shown as a lot or parcel on a
recorded subdivision map, or shown on a plat used in the lease or sale or offer
of lease or sale of land resulting from the division of a larger tract into
smaller units. A lot may not necessarily be buildable.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The minimum distance measured from the front property line to the
rear of same property boundary.
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other object,
or improvement of the land on which they are situated, constituting a physical
betterment of real property or any part of such betterment. Certain lot
improvements shall be properly guaranteed as provided in these regulations and
the subdivision and master planned development code.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot from the right of way of the
street. A front setback shall be required for each side of a parcel which
borders a public or private street right of way unless a project with private
streets has previously designated specific setbacks. See chapter 3,
"Supplementary Regulations", of this title, for specific setbacks on unusual
lots.
LOT LINE, REAR: The property line opposite the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The minimum distance between the side property lines.
MAJOR STREET PLAN: See official zoning map or land use or zoning maps. The
major street plan is part of these maps.
MAJOR SUBDIVISION: All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four (4) or more lots, or any
size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local
governmental facilities, infrastructure, or the creation of any new public
improvements.
MASTER PLAN: See definition of General Plan.
MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A development designed and reviewed under the
master planned development processes described in this title.
METROPOLITAN OR REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION AND METROPOLITAN OR REGIONAL
COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS: The agency performing A-95 review of all federal grant
in aid projects required to be reviewed by regional and state planning boards
to ensure the projects conform to regional and state needs; the planning agency
established to carry on regional or metropolitan comprehensive planning.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision containing not more than three (3) lots
fronting on an existing public or private street of adequate capacity, not
involving any new street or road, or the extension of municipal infrastructure
or facilities, or the creation of any public improvements, and not adversely
affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not in
conflict with any provision or portion of the town general plan, land use map,
official zoning map, streets master plan, or this title and regulations. A
"minor subdivision" must also not require a zone change or rezone to be
subdivided. The subdivider must agree to be bound by the current version of
this title and town general plan, and the property must not contain sensitive
lands or lie under the sensitive lands overlay zone.
MODEL HOME: A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which typifies
the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision. Such dwelling
units may be erected at the discretion of the planning commission by permitting
a portion of a major subdivision involving no more than two (2) lots to be
created according to the procedures for minor subdivisions, as set out in this
title.
MUNICIPALITY: The town or town of Corinne City, Utah.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK AND RECREATION IMPROVEMENT FUND: A special fund that may be
established by the town council to retain monies contributed by developers in
accordance with the "money in lieu of land" provisions of these regulations to
develop land within reasonable proximity of the land to be subdivided so as to
be of local use to the future residents of the subdivision.
NIGHTLY RENTAL: The rental of a room, apartment or house, or lockout room, for
a time period of less than thirty (30) days.
NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a building, structure or land which does not
conform to current use regulations for the district in which it is situated,
but which was in conformity with prior regulations at the time of its
establishment, or which was in existence prior to the establishment of use
regulations for the district in which it is situated.
NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as agricultural, commercial or industrial. Such subdivision
shall comply with the applicable provisions of the town general plan and the
requirements of the subdivision and master planned development code.
NURSERY, GREENHOUSE: A place and/or structure in which young plants are raised
for experimental purposes, for transplanting or for sale.
NURSING HOME: An institution described also as a "rest home" or "convalescent
home", other than a hospital, in which persons are lodged and furnished with
care rather than diagnoses or treatment.
OFF SITE: Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
OFFICIAL MASTER PLAN: See definition of General Plan.
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP: The map established by the town council pursuant to law
showing the streets, highways and parks, and drainage systems and setback lines
theretofore laid out, and zoning districts, adopted and established by law, and
any amendments or additions thereto resulting from the approval of subdivision
plats by the planning commission and the subsequent filing of such approved
plats.
ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT: A dwelling consisting of a living room, a kitchen (which
may be a part of the living room), a single room designed and intended as a
bedroom, and a bathroom for the exclusive use of that unit, all having a
combined floor area of not more than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
OPEN SPACE: Different separate types dependent upon occupancy, use and control.
All types of open space are referred to collectively as "open space" in this
title. Any of these types of open space could be public or private open space.
They shall include:
   A.   Agricultural Open Space: Open lands left undisturbed or dedicated
primarily as usable agricultural lands for farming and ranching purposes and
intended for use by residents of the development, neighborhood or community.
   B.   Natural Open Space: Natural, undisturbed areas with little or no
improvements or irrigation. This may include such areas as ridgelines, slopes
over thirty percent (30%), wetlands, stream corridors, trail linkages or visual
linkages. These areas may be subject to an open space conservation easement to
ensure that they remain undisturbed and to provide public access as deemed
appropriate by the planning commission.
   C.   Neighborhood Open Space: Landscaped areas free of buildings, structures
and other substantial improvements, and includes, without limitation: 1)
outdoor swimming pools, swimming pool areas, hard surfaced recreational areas
and other recreational areas that are unenclosed, and fences, canopies,
bathhouses and accessory structures for recreation use, whether enclosed or
unenclosed; 2) driveways that cross the required yard at approximately right
angles and serve fewer than three (3) parking spaces; 3) the ground surface
above underground facilities, provided it otherwise qualifies as usable open
space under the provisions of this definition; 4) pedestrianways to plazas
within a building that are directly oriented to the major pedestrian entrance
to the building and are open to view and use by the public; and 5) decks,
porches, patios, terraces and steps under thirty inches (30") high, provided
they are not covered by a portion of a building.
   D.   Recreational Open Space: Parks and areas of active recreation use,
including neighborhood or community centers or clubhouses intended for use by
residents of the development, neighborhood or community.
ORDINANCE: Any legislative action, however denominated, of the town council of
Corinne City which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of
any ordinance.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be developed or subdivided under
these regulations.
PARKING LOT: An area other than a street used for the parking of more than four
(4) automobiles.
PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL: A lot used for the temporary parking of automobiles
for compensation.
PARKING LOT, PRIVATE: A lot used for the temporary parking of automobiles for
compensation.
PARKING, PUBLIC: A parking area or facility on private or public property to be
used by the public. Fees for the use thereof may or may not be involved.
PARKING SPACE: An area maintained for the parking or storage of an automobile
or other vehicle, which is graded for proper drainage and is hard surfaced,
porous paved or graded and compacted road base/gravel where specially
permitted.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A fully enclosed structure designed and intended for parking
or storage of more than four (4) vehicles.
PERIMETER STREET: Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
PERMITTED USE: A use of land allowed by right under the provisions of this
title.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the town of Corinne City, Utah,
established in accordance with law.
PLANNING DEPARTMENT: See definition of Planning Commission.
PLANNING DIRECTOR: See definition of Planning Commission.
PLAT AMENDMENT: A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
if such change affects any street layout in such map or area reserved thereon
for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan legally
recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
Also referred to as a "resubdivision".
POROUS PAVING: A substantial surfacing material designed and intended to
support light vehicular movement. Porous paving includes paving systems such as
modular pavers which provide at least fifty percent (50%) surface exposure
suitable for the establishment of plant materials and which substantially
abates surface water runoff. Gravel and/or compacted soil are not acceptable as
porous paving materials.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the planning commission and town council for approval.
PRIMARY USE: The primary or main use shall be the purpose for which the
premises, land or a building therein is designed, arranged or intended, or for
which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: A building or space used by persons such as accountants,
architects, artists, dentists, designers, engineers, lawyers, physicians,
realtors, teachers and others who, by virtue of training and/or license, are
qualified to perform services of a professional nature, and/or where no goods
or merchandise are sold or stored.
PROPERTY LINE, FRONT: That part of a lot which abuts a public or private street
or public right of way.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch or system, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement, water or
sewer system, or other facility for which the town may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which town responsibility is established. All such improvements
shall be properly guaranteed and installed as per town codes, specifications
and regulations.
PUBLIC USE: A use operated exclusively by a public body, or quasi-public body,
such use having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general
welfare, and including uses such as public schools, parks, playgrounds and
other recreational facilities, administrative, service facilities, and public
utilities.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: A use operated by a private nonprofit educational, religious,
recreational, charitable or philanthropic institution, such use having the
purpose primarily of serving the general public, such as churches, private
schools and universities, or similar uses.
RECREATION, COMMERCIAL: Recreation facilities operated as businesses on private
or public property and open to the public for a fee, such as a golf course or
tennis court, equestrian center, skating rink, etc., and support facilities
customarily associated with the development.
RECREATION, PRIVATE: Recreation facilities operated on private property and not
open to the public.
RECREATION, PUBLIC: Recreation facilities operated by a public agency and open
to the public, with or without a fee.
REGISTERED ENGINEER: An engineer properly licensed and registered in the state
of Utah.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor properly licensed and registered in
the state of Utah.
RESTAURANT: A building in which food is prepared and served for consumption
within the premises.
RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN: A building in which food is prepared and served for
consumption on the premises and which includes a facility which allows food to
be ordered and taken from the premises for consumption elsewhere.
RESUBDIVISION: See definition of Plat Amendment.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another special
use. The usage of the term "right of way" for land platting purposes shall mean
that every right of way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to
be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way
and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights
of way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm
drains, shade trees, or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency,
shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right
of way is established.
ROAD, DEAD END: A road or a portion of a street with only one vehicular traffic
outlet.
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY WIDTH: The distance between property lines measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
ROADS, CLASSIFICATION: For the purpose of providing for the development of the
streets, highways, roads and rights of way in and for their future improvement,
reconstruction, realignment and necessary widening, including provision for
curbs and sidewalks and drainage, each existing street, highway, road and right
of way, and those located on approved and filed plats, have been designated on
the official zoning map of the town and classified therein. The classification
of each street, highway, road and right of way is based upon its location in
the respective zoning districts of the town and its present and estimated
future traffic volume and its relative importance and function as specified in
the streets master plan or land use maps or zoning maps of Corinne City. The
required improvements shall be measured as set forth for each street
classification on the official zoning map.
SALE OR LEASE: Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any possessory
interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise, intestate
succession or transfer of an interest in a subdivision or part thereof, whether
by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, devise, interstate
succession or other written instrument.
SAME OWNERSHIP: Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership or an incorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockholder, partner or associate, or a member of his family, owns an
interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity or unincorporated
association.
SATELLITE RECEIVING STATION: Any apparatus or device which is designed for the
purpose of transmitting and/or receiving radio, television, satellite microwave
or other electromagnetic energy signals between terrestrial and/or orbital
based uses. This definition is meant to include, but not be limited to, what
are commonly referred to as satellite earth stations, satellite microwave
antennas, TVROs or dish antennas. This definition does not include conventional
television antennas or ham radio antennas.
SCREENING: Either: a) a strip of at least ten feet (10') wide, densely planted
(or having equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least four feet
(4') high at the time of planting, of a type that will for a year round period
provide a dense screen at least six feet (6') high; or b) an opaque wall or
barrier or uniformly painted fence at least six feet (6') high. Either a) or b)
shall be maintained in good condition at all times and may have no signs
affixed to or hung in relation to the outside thereof, except the following:
for each entrance, one directional arrow with the name of the establishment
with "For Patrons Only"; or like limitation, not over two (2) square feet in
area, which shall be nonilluminated. Where required in the district
regulations, a screen shall be installed along or within the lines of a plot as
a protection to adjoining or nearby properties.
SECONDARY LIVING QUARTERS: Areas within main dwellings which are used by the
property owner or primary tenant as dwellings for the private use of the
property owner's relatives, domestic help, caretakers, nursing staff,
houseguest or similar users. This title requires these quarters to be small, on
the same utility meter system as the main dwelling, with limited access, and
not separately rented or leased. Review for this use is undertaken by the
planning and building departments at the time of building permit request and is
a conditional use.
SEMIDETACHED BUILDING: Units connected on one side by an insulated common or
party wall with separate exterior entrance for each unit.
SETBACK: The distance between a building and the street line or road right of
way, or nearest property line thereto.
SETBACK, FRONT: A front setback will be required for each side of a lot
bordering a public street or other right of way.
SHADE TREE: A tree in a public place, street, special easement or right of way
adjoining a street, as provided in these regulations.
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: Established regulations concerning lot areas, yard
setbacks, building height, lot coverage, open space and any other special
regulations deemed necessary to accomplish the goals and purposes of the
underlying zoning district.
SKETCH PLAT: A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary plat
(or subdivision plat in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
planning commission as to the form of the plat and the objectives and/or
conditions of these regulations.
STREET, PUBLIC: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated and accepted by the
council, which the town has acquired by prescriptive right or which the town
owns, or accepted for dedication on an approved final plat, or a thoroughfare
which has been dedicated or made public by right of use and which affords
access to abutting property, including highways, roads, lanes, avenues and
boulevards. Any street or road shown on the streets master plan or land use
maps or official zoning maps as a public street.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires fixed location on or
in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location upon the
ground, and which imposes an impervious material on or above the ground;
definition includes "building". All structures must maintain the minimum
setbacks for the district in which they are located, both above and below the
ground.
STUDIO APARTMENT: A dwelling unit consisting of a single room equipped for
cooking, living and sleeping, having a separate bathroom or kitchen for the
exclusive use of that apartment, all having a combined floor area of not more
than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person who: a) having an interest in land, causes it, directly
or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; or who b) directly or
indirectly, sells, leases or develops, or offers to sell, lease or develop, or
advertises for sale, lease or development, any interest, lot, parcel, site,
unit or plat in a subdivision; or who c) engages directly or through an agent
in the business of selling, leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease or
development, a subdivision or any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit or plat in
a subdivision; or who d) is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under
direct or indirect common control with, any of the foregoing.
SUBDIVISION: Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or interests
for the purpose of offer, sale, lease or development, either on the installment
plan or upon any or all other plans, terms and conditions, including
resubdivision. "Subdivision" includes the division or development of
residential and nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat or other recorded instrument.
SUBDIVISION AGENT: Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of, a
subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing or developing, or offering to
sell, lease or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney at law whose representation of another person
consists solely of rendering legal services.
SUBDIVISION PLAT: The final map or drawing, described in these regulations, on
which the subdivider's plan of subdivision is presented to the planning
commission and town council for approval and which, if approved, may be
submitted to the Box Elder County recorder for filing at the subdivider's
expense.
SUPPORT COMMERCIAL FACILITIES: Those commercial uses which are located on the
site of a master planned development, and oriented toward the internal
circulation of the development, for the purpose of serving the needs of the
residents or users of that development, and not the general public or persons
drawn from off the site of the master planned development. Examples of support
commercial uses are barbershops, beauty salons, travel agencies, clothing
stores, gift shops, convenience stores, art galleries, auto rentals, camera
stores, liquor stores, pharmacies, sporting goods stores, daycare nurseries,
information centers, tennis or golf pro shops, or other hotel lobby type uses.
No use occupying more than two thousand (2,000) gross square feet of floor area
will be considered as support commercial.
TANDEM PARKING: Parking designs which necessitate parking one vehicle behind
another. Such parking may not include more than two (2) cars in depth, and may
not require occupants of separate dwellings to park behind one another.
TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT: Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider during
construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the performance
guarantee.
TOWN: The town of Corinne City, Utah.
TOWN ATTORNEY: The licensed attorney designated by the town to furnish legal
assistance for the administration of these and other regulations.
TOWN COUNCIL: The town or town council of Corinne City, Utah.
TOWN ENGINEER: The state of Utah licensed engineer designated by the town to
furnish engineering assistance for the administration of these and other
regulations.
TOWN STAFF: The employee or employees of Corinne City charged with the duties
of performing ministerial or administrative functions under this title. When
specific job titles are referred to in this title, it is done for convenience
in designating the person or department primarily responsible for that
particular function. All town staff functions are under the direction of the
mayor, and the use of a specific job title shall not be construed as vesting
authority with that person or department, as all staff actions are under the
direction of the Town or Mayor and Town Council, and the staff or departmental
structure established by the Mayor for the effective operation of Municipal
affairs.
UNIT EQUIVALENT: The relative density factor applied in this title to different
sizes and configurations of dwelling units and commercial spaces within a
master planned development.
USE, INTENSITY: The maximum number of residential units, or commercial or
industrial space within a specified land area designated for that purpose.
VEHICLE: A thing used for transporting people or goods, especially on land,
such as a car, truck, cart or structure that can be moved on wheels.
YARD: A required space on a lot other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
by buildings from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. Yard
areas for below grade structures must be provided unless a variance is
obtained.
YARD, FRONT: A required space between the front line of the main building and
the front lot line or closer right-of-way line of an abutting street or right-
of-way and extending across the full width of a lot. The "depth" of the front
yard is the minimum distance between the front lot line and the front line of
the closest main building.
YARD, REAR: A required space between the rear line of the building and the rear
lot line, or closer public street, and extending the full width of the lot. The
"depth" of the rear yard is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and
the rear line of the main building.
YARD, SIDE: A required space between the side line of the building and the side
lot line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The "width" of the
side yard shall be the minimum distance between the side lot line and the side
line of the building. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 18-01, 9-18-2018)
CHAPTER 3
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: Substandard Lots
9-3-3: Reduced Site Requirements
9-3-4: Lot Standards
9-3-5: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space
9-3-6: Sale Of Lots Below Minimum Space Requirements
9-3-7: Fences, Walls And/Or Hedges
9-3-8: Frontage Protection, Safety, And Limited Access To Highways
9-3-9: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
9-3-10: Public Utility Structures
9-3-11: Zero Side Yard Requirements
9-3-12: Home Occupations
9-3-13: Condominium Conversion
9-3-14: Side Yard Exceptions
9-3-15: Rear Yard Exceptions
9-3-16: Front Yard Exceptions
9-3-17: Height Provisions
9-3-18: Secondary Living Quarters And Accessory Apartments Within Residential
Dwellings
9-3-19: Completion Of On And Off Site Improvement Work Prior To Approval Of
Plats Or Issuance Of Certificates Of Occupancy
9-3-20: [Reserved]
9-3-21: Setback Requirements For Unusual Lot Configurations
9-3-22: Sensitive Lands Review
9-3-23: Bed And Breakfast Inns
9-3-24: Liquor Stores Or Private Clubs
9-3-25: Daycare Services (Including Preschools)
9-3-26: Temporary Uses
9-3-27: [Reserved]
9-3-28: Off Street Parking
9-3-29: Signs And Outdoor Advertising
9-3-30: Design Review
9-3-31: Technical Review
9-3-32: Required Supplemental Land Surveys
9-3-33: Right To Farm Provisions
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as the case
may be, the regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-2: SUBSTANDARD LOTS:
Nothing in this title shall be construed as preventing the division of approved
and platted duplex lots into separate ownership under the terms of either a
condominium ownership structure, a planned unit development ownership
structure, or a party wall agreement. No new lots may be platted or created by
deed which do not comply with the minimum lot size requirements established for
that zone. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-3: REDUCED SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any lot under separate ownership of record prior to the adoption of
this title, which has dimensions which would prevent building because of the
front yard, rear yard and side yard setbacks required by the zone in which it
is located, and any lot which has been approved by the town prior to the
effective date hereof, which would prevent building because of the front yard,
rear yard and side yard setbacks required by the zone in which it is located,
shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of the zone in which it is
located. The standards of the international building code for development or
construction on or near lot lines must still be met.
   B.   This section is not intended to conflict with section
9-3-9 of this chapter, nor shall it be interpreted as taking precedence over
the requirements of section
9-3-9 of this chapter. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-4: LOT STANDARDS:
Except as may otherwise be provided in this title, no building permit shall be
issued for a lot unless such lot shall have area, width and depth as required
by the regulations for the zone in which the lot is located, and the lot has
frontage on a street shown as a town street on the streets master plan, land
use map, official zoning maps or on private easements connecting the lot to a
street as shown on the above mentioned plans and/or maps. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-5: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this title for a lot or building may be sold or leased away
from such lot or building. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-6: SALE OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements
for the district in which it is located may be created from a larger parcel of
land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building or development
as a lot. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-7: FENCES, WALLS AND/OR HEDGES:
   A.   Permitted Height: Fences, walls and hedges higher than six feet (6')
may be erected or allowed within the buildable area; provided, that any
physical structure over six feet (6') in height shall require a building
permit. Fences, walls and hedges shall not exceed four feet (4') in height
within any required front yard or side street side yard and shall not exceed
six feet (6') within any required rear yard or interior side yard. Where a
fence, wall or hedge occurs along a property line separating two (2) lots and
there is a difference in the grade of the properties, the fence, wall or hedge
may be erected or allowed to the maximum height permitted on either side of the
property line.
   B.   Restrictions On Materials: Chainlink fences over six feet (6') are
prohibited in all zones, with the following exceptions, which must be approved
by the planning commission:
      1.   For recreational facilities such as tennis courts or other town
facilities.
      2.   As temporary vegetation protection during construction as directed
by the planning commission.
      3.   Chainlink fences may be permitted in other circumstances by the
planning commission when it is found that the fence is necessary in the
interest of security or public safety, and when the fencing needs cannot be
reasonably met with any other type of fencing. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-
02, 3-17-2020)
9-3-8: FRONTAGE PROTECTION, SAFETY, AND LIMITED ACCESS TO HIGHWAYS:
The frontage along one or both sides of all state, county and town roads are
subject to special review for protection of the highway frontage and safety of
access by roads and driveways. These areas, when designated by the planning
commission, are shown on the official zoning district map. Any building or
development proposal along these sections of roads and highways are subject to
special review by the planning commission. The highway frontage review in these
designated areas shall be limited to the following factors:
   A.   Consolidated Access: To the extent possible to minimize access points
and driveways to the highways, access shall be from existing town or private
streets that join with the highways rather than direct highway access. Common
driveways between adjoining projects shall be used when possible, and driveways
that are required in order to provide access shall be placed where they create
the least interference with traffic on the highways.
   B.   Public Safety: All access points along these designated corridors shall
be reviewed for public safety of ingress and egress on intersections,
pedestrian safety, safety of winter access on steep grades and possible
flooding and erosion hazards.
   C.   Pathways, View Corridors And Future Improvements:
      1.   The town shall review proposals for pedestrian and bicycling
pathways through the frontage property, proposals for open space, buffered
areas and preservation of view corridors where applicable.
      2.   Regardless of the zone setbacks in this title, no structure shall be
erected within forty feet (40') of the nearest highway right of way line in
order to preserve view corridors, buffer areas, and allow for possible future
improvements of the highways themselves. The appeal authority can only grant
variances to this setback. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-3-9: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all zones, no obstruction to public or private street views in excess of two
feet (2') in height above road grade shall be placed on any corner lot within a
triangular area formed by the streets at the property line and a line
connecting them at points twenty five feet (25') from the intersection of the
street right of way lines, except a reasonable number of trees pruned low
enough to permit automobile drivers an unobstructed view. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-10: PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURES:
Public utility structures may be permitted on less than the required size lots
in any district as approved by the planning commission. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd.
Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-3-11: ZERO SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Zero side yard development is not allowed. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-12: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Permitted: A home occupation in an agricultural or residential zone is
a lawful and permitted use if it complies with the definitions and guidelines
outlined in this section.
   B.   Conducted Within Dwelling; Secondary Use: The home occupation must be
conducted and carried on entirely within a dwelling by persons residing in the
dwelling or by those persons at sites away from the dwelling, which use is
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes and does not change the character thereof. A home occupation:
      1.   Shall not include the sale of goods or merchandise directly from the
home except those which are produced on the premises;
      2.   Shall not involve the use of any yard space or activity outside of
the buildings not normally associated with residential use;
      3.   Shall not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the main
floor of the dwelling nor more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area of
any garage or outbuilding in which the use is conducted;
      4.   Shall not cause a demand for municipal services in excess of that
associated with normal residential use;
      5.   Shall be enclosed within a structure in complete conformity with
international building codes as adopted by the town;
      6.   Shall not generate business related vehicular traffic in excess of
three (3) vehicles per hour.
   C.   Mechanical Equipment; Types Of Businesses: The use of mechanical
equipment shall be limited to small tools whose use shall not generate noise,
smoke or odors perceptible beyond the premises of the dwelling. Home
occupations would not allow a resident, professional or otherwise, to use the
dwelling for his general practice when that practice is normally associated
with some other zoning district. Home occupation will, however, allow the use
of the dwelling by a physician, dentist, lawyer, clergyman, engineer or the
like for consultation or emergency treatment. Consultation shall include the
use of a dwelling to receive mail and maintain a telephone, fax or automatic
answering device and computer related to the home occupation, but shall not
allow frequent or constant visitation to the residence by clients to transact
business. Telecommuting in a home satellite office, away from a main office, is
permitted.
   D.   Daycare: Home occupation shall include the care of fewer than three (3)
children other than members of the family residing in the dwelling or as
prescribed by state codes or regulations.
   E.   Advertising; Employees; Outside Storage And Parking:
      1.   There can be identifying signage not in excess of a six (6) square
foot nameplate, attached to the building;
      2.   No one outside of the immediate family may be employed within the
home;
      3.   Shall not include outdoor storage, outdoor display of merchandise,
nor parking/storage of any vehicles in excess of twelve thousand (12,000)
pounds gross vehicle weight.
   F.   Covenants Precluding Use; Business License Regulations: In the event
covenants applicable to the property preclude this use, the covenants shall
control. A home occupation as described by this section would be a permitted
use in any residential or agricultural zone and would require compliance with
town business licensing regulations in effect at the time of use.
   G.   Administrative:
      1.   Activities normally considered business or commercial uses or
activities listed in appendix A to this title, which is on file in the town
office, as permitted in residential and agricultural zones are limited to home
occupations in all cases and shall follow the review process.
      2.   All home occupations outside of the guidelines of the permitted use
as described in this section shall be prohibited. Agricultural businesses that
comply with this title in an agricultural zone are permitted uses. (Ord. 13-01,
9-3-2013; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-3-13: CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION:
Existing structures shall not be converted to condominium ownership without
first receiving the review and recommendation of the planning commission, town
attorney and plat approval from the town council. All required public
improvements and landscaping shall be completed at the time of conversion or
security provided to ensure completion as provided by ordinance. The structure
must be brought into substantial compliance with the building code as a
condition precedent to plat approval. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-14: SIDE YARD EXCEPTIONS:
The area of a required side yard shall be open and unobstructed, except for the
following and similar uses:
   A.   The ordinary projections of window sills, belt courses, cornices and
other ornamental features to the extent of not more than twelve inches (12").
   B.   The projection of eaves not more than two feet (2').
   C.   The projection of a step not over two feet (2').
   D.   Awnings projecting over doorways and windows not more than three feet
(3').
   E.   A bay window or chimney not over ten feet (10') long projecting not
more than two feet (2'), providing such extension maintains the minimum side
yard allowable for the smallest side yard in that district.
   F.   A light or window well not over two feet (2') in width.
   G.   Walls or fences not more than six feet (6') in height.
   H.   A driveway leading to a properly located garage or parking area;
however, a side yard cannot be used for a parking area except as hereinafter
provided, nor for storage, nor can it be hard surfaced in such a way as to make
possible the parking of automobiles or other vehicles unless it is a driveway
that leads to a garage or a properly located parking area in the rear yard.
   I.   A detached garage may be located in a side yard, provided said garage
meets the requirements specified for the district in which it is located, and
the requirements of the building and fire codes for buildings in close
proximity to the lot lines.
   J.   Hot tubs, decks or similar uses at ground level shall be allowed in a
side yard, provided they are located at least ten feet (10') from a dwelling on
an adjoining lot or five feet (5') from the property line. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-15: REAR YARD EXCEPTIONS:
The area of a required rear yard shall be open and unobstructed, except for the
following which are permitted:
   A.   A bay window or chimney not over ten feet (10') long projecting not
more than two feet (2').
   B.   Window wells extending not more than four feet (4').
   C.   The projection of eaves or cornices not more than two feet (2').
   D.   Private swimming pools, tennis courts and similar uses shall be allowed
in a rear yard, provided they are located at least thirty feet (30') from any
dwelling on an adjoining lot and at least ten feet (10') from any property
line.
   E.   Garages and other accessory buildings as hereinafter provided. Such
structures shall not cover over fifty percent (50%) of the rear yard area.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
   F.   Hard surfaced parking areas subject to the same location requirements
of a garage. A driveway leading to a properly located garage or parking area.
(Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
   G.   Underground bomb or fallout shelters for emergency use only, provided
they are constructed at least four feet (4') from any property line and also
that they conform to all requirements established by the civil defense agency
for approved shelters.
   H.   Air conditioners.
   I.   Fences not over six feet (6') in height.
   J.   Hot tubs or similar uses shall be allowed in a rear yard, provided they
are located at least ten feet (10') from a dwelling on an adjoining lot or five
feet (5') from the property line. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-16: FRONT YARD EXCEPTIONS:
The area of a required front yard shall be open and unobstructed, except for
the following which are permitted:
   A.   A fence or wall not more than four feet (4') in height; no fence more
than two feet (2') in height shall be allowed within twenty five feet (25') of
the intersection on any corner lot.
   B.   Uncovered steps leading to the main building; provided, however, that
they are not more than four feet (4') in height and do not cause any danger or
hazard to traffic by obstructing the view of the street or intersection. Any
portion of any steps, covered or uncovered, that are more than four feet (4')
above grade must maintain the required setback line.
   C.   Eaves or cornices projecting not more than two feet (2').
   D.   A driveway leading to a properly located garage or parking area;
provided, however, no portion of a front yard, as required in this title except
for those approved driveways, shall be hard surfaced or graveled so as to
encourage or make possible the parking of automobiles, nor shall the town allow
any curb cuts or approve any driveways except for entrance and exit driveways
leading to properly located parking areas.
   E.   Circular driveways shall be permitted in required front yard areas of
single-family dwellings leading to and from a properly located garage or
carport on the property subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Such drives shall be hard surfaced.
      2.   Such drives shall not be over sixteen feet (16') in width.
      3.   There shall be an area in landscaping at least fifteen feet (15') in
depth from the front property line to the inside of the drive. (Ord., 1-18-
2005)
      4.   Passenger automobiles may be parked on driveways serving private
residences, provided the automobile is parked completely on private property.
(Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
9-3-17: HEIGHT PROVISIONS:
The total height of the building shall be measured as the vertical distance
from the natural grade, as defined in section
9-2-1 of this title to the highest point of a flat roof or the deck line of
mansard roof, or to a point midway between the lowest part of the eaves or
cornice and the ridge of a hip or gable roof. In no case shall a mansard roof
or the parapet wall of a flat roof extend more than thirteen inches (13") above
the maximum height limitation in the zone. Roofs not fitting clearly any of the
above three (3) classifications shall be classified by the planning commission
in accordance with the roof it most clearly resembles. Roofs which drain to the
center shall be considered as flat or mansard depending on their configuration.
To allow for roof pitches and provide usable space within the structure, the
following exceptions apply:
   A.   The ridge of a gable, hip, gambrel or similarly pitched roof may extend
up to five feet (5') above the specified maximum height limit for the zone.
   B.   Antennas, chimneys, flues, vents or similar structures may extend up to
ten feet (10') above the specified maximum height limit for the zone.
   C.   Water towers and mechanical equipment may extend up to five feet (5')
above the specified maximum height limit.
   D.   Church spires, bell towers and like architectural features, may extend
over the specified maximum height limit, but shall not contain any habitable
spaces above the maximum zone height stated. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02,
3-17-2020)
9-3-18: SECONDARY LIVING QUARTERS AND ACCESSORY APARTMENTS WITHIN RESIDENTIAL
DWELLINGS:
Any request for single secondary living quarters or single accessory apartments
such as basement, attic or garage apartments within residential dwellings must
be reviewed and approved by the planning commission. The limit is one
freestanding secondary living quarters or apartment per lot/dwelling. Secondary
living quarters and accessory apartments within residential dwellings are
permitted uses in all zones; however, the following criteria must be
established prior to building permit issuance or the use shall become
conditional:
   A.   Size: The maximum size for secondary living quarters shall be one
thousand (1,000) square feet. This amount shall be included in the total
building square footage calculations for all structures.
   B.   Parking: One on site parking space shall be provided in addition to the
underlying parking requirements for the zone.
   C.   Single Utility Meters: The main dwelling and the secondary quarters
shall be on the same utility meters.
   D.   Building And Fire Codes: The structure and/or improvements must meet
international building code regulations as well as any fire codes in effect.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-19: COMPLETION OF ON AND OFF SITE IMPROVEMENT WORK PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF
PLATS OR ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Policy:
      1.   Security Required:
         a.   In order to protect the town from the financial burdens resulting
from damage to or increased maintenance costs for town facilities and
infrastructure that may occur as a result of incomplete or inadequate site
improvements on private construction projects or off site improvements
performed by the developer as required by the town and as required through the
market analysis and infrastructure impact review analysis processes as defined
in chapter 1 of this title, it is the policy of the town to require that
developers either complete all required on or off site improvements prior to
occupancy, or if that is not possible, that adequate financial security for
that completion, together with a right of entry to the property to complete
that work, be granted to the town. It is specifically the intention of the town
to require that storm drainage work, paving, curb and gutter, water and sewer
facilities, soil retention structure, and landscaping as needed to control
erosion, be completed according to standards adopted by the town, so that
residents and taxpayers at large are not required to pay the costs of damage,
repair or disproportionately increased maintenance for any of these facilities.
         b.   No plat will be approved, where required, and no certificate of
occupancy granted, unless and until adequate financial security is posted in
accordance with this section.
      2.   No Third Party Beneficiaries Intended: It is the intention of the
town that this financial security given by the developer be limited to a
contract between the town and the developer for the express purpose of
providing for the protection of town facilities and elimination of conditions
which could become public nuisances. It is not intended that this security be
available for payment of subcontractors or material suppliers in the nature of
a surety bond, or that the security provided become available to the purchasers
of property to correct construction flaws or defects which are the fault of the
developer. In no event will the funds be used for purposes other than those
stated in this section and the time and manner of the expenditure, and
prioritization of work performed shall rest in the sole discretion of the town.
   B.   Construction According To Approved Plans: All construction shall be
completed according to the approved plans and specifications on which the
building permits were issued. The approved plans shall also include the site
improvements shown on the site plan. For purposes of this title, the term "site
improvements" shall include all roads, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, drains,
drainage works, grades, walls, landscaping, planting, paving, utility lines and
related facilities, paths and trails, and similar improvements, as shown on the
set of plans on which the final approval and building permits are based. "Off
site improvements" shall refer to all facilities defined as "site improvements"
in this subsection, above but off of the development parcel and required by the
infrastructure impact review studies. These improvements will be constructed at
the same time as the building development that required the improvements and
will be constructed to town standards and approved, inspected and constructed
under the authority of the town engineer or his/her representative. These two
(2) types of improvements may be referred to collectively as "improvements".
Deviations from the approved plans must be approved in advance by the town or
its staff.
   C.   Security For Completion: No certificate of occupancy will be issued,
nor any plat approved when plats are required by this title, unless the
building and all required on and off site improvements are completed, or the
developer has provided adequate security to guarantee timely completion of the
improvements. When all of the improvements and the building cannot be completed
simultaneously due to weather conditions or other factors beyond the control of
the developer (excluding financial inability to complete the project), the town
may grant plat approval for recording and/or issue certificates of occupancy
for the project, provided the following conditions are met:
      1.   The building or buildings, or portions thereof, on the property to
be platted or occupied have been constructed in accordance with the approved
plans for those buildings, and are in full compliance with applicable building
and fire codes, and are completed to the extent that only exterior site
improvement work remains unfinished; and
      2.   The building official determines that occupancy of the buildings, or
portions thereof, prior to completion of required site improvements is safe and
that access for emergency vehicles is adequate with the site improvements
unfinished; and
      3.   The developer posts adequate security for the benefit of the town to
ensure completion of the site improvements in full compliance with the approved
plans within one year from the date of plat approval (if required) or issuance
of the certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first.
   D.   Amount Of Security: The amount of the security to be posted by the
developer shall be determined by the planning commission and/or town engineer
and shall be equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the amount
reasonably estimated by the town as being necessary to complete remaining on
and off site improvements as shown on the approved plans. In the event that the
developer disputes the cost estimate of the town, the developer may prove a
lower construction cost by providing binding contracts between the developer
and contractor or subcontractor appropriate to perform the required work at a
stated, fixed price. These contracts must be supported by a one hundred percent
(100%) performance bond, ensuring performance by the subcontractor or
contractor. Bid proposals are not satisfactory for this purpose. If the
contracts submitted are acceptable in form, the amount of security required
shall be one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the total contract price of
all such contracts submitted, plus the estimated reasonable cost of performing
any work not covered by the contracts. Specifications in such contracts shall
be sufficiently clear to identify the work called for under the contract.
   E.   Terms Of Security: The terms of any security arrangement offered to the
town shall state a date certain by which the developer agrees to have on and/or
off site improvement work completed in accordance with the plans, and further
provide that in the event that the developer has not completed required site
improvement work by that date, the town may at its option and on its schedule,
draw on the funds escrowed, or credit established, or such other security
device by its own act, and shall not be required to obtain consent of developer
to withdraw funds for completion of the work shown on approved plans. The
town's actual costs in administering the completion of work in the event of a
default by the developer shall be reimbursed from the escrow or other security
arrangements in an acceptable and timely manner.
   F.   Form Of Security: Security arrangements offered in lieu of simultaneous
completion at buildings and site improvements shall be in an amount fixed under
the terms of subsection D of this section, and shall be in one or more of the
following forms as approved by the town attorney:
      1.   An irrevocable letter of credit from a bank authorized to do
business in the state, naming the town as the payee of funds drawn against that
letter of credit and guaranteeing the availability of funds for one year; or
      2.   A deposit of cash with a third party escrow; or
      3.   An agreement with the construction lender providing that the lender
will withhold funds in the construction loan in an amount equal to the amount
calculated in subsection D of this section, and will disburse those funds only
with the written consent of the town, and only for the completion of any
required improvements. As improvement work is completed, the town will consent
to the disbursement of the funds set aside by the lender.
      4.   Some combination of the above approved by the town.
   G.   Retainage: The amount in excess of the actual construction costs, but
in no event more than twenty five percent (25%) of the actual construction
cost, shall be held for a period of one year following final inspection and
approval of the required on and/or off site improvement work by the town. No
retainage shall be held for landscaping improvements once the installation of
the required materials has been approved by the town. The retainage amount may
be provided in any of the ways described in subsection F of this section. If
the developer fails to provide new security instruments within thirty (30) days
from the expiration of the security instruments provided for the initial
construction under subsection F of this section, the town shall make a demand
or draw on that security to the extent of the required retainage amount, and
hold the proceeds in cash until and unless other adequate security, as provided
in this title, is posted by the developer. Retainage will be used to replace or
repair any site improvements which fail or appear to be defective during the
one year retainage period. The corrective work may be done by the town or the
developer. At the completion of that work, the retainage, or so much of it as
remains, shall be released. Retainage amounts may be drawn and applied to any
outstanding fees owed by the developer to the town; provided, that such fees
are imposed by ordinance and the amount of the fees is not to be contested by
the developer.
   H.   Modification Of Plans: A developer may, at its option, request
modifications to plans covering on and/or off site improvement work by
submitting revised plans to the town for review and action. Until the revised
plans have received approval by the town, the developer shall be required to
offer security, for the performance of the improvement work as shown on the
last set of plans to have received town approval. Upon acceptance of revised
plans by the town, the town shall release any cash, credit or other security
held, which is in excess of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
completion cost (estimated) of work shown on the most recently revised plan. If
the modification of the plan increases the cost of required improvements,
additional security must be provided by the developer to cover the increased
costs.
   I.   Payment Of Interest: Any interest accruing on escrowed funds shall,
unless expended for completion of site improvements required, inure to the
benefit of the developer upon release and not to the town, and the town shall
not be required to pay interest to the developer on any funds escrowed for this
purpose.
   J.   Detailed Improvement Plans And Specifications: Detailed on and/or off
site improvement plans and specifications shall be presented, showing the
location, design and nature of all streets, drainage, drainage works, utility
pipelines, storage tanks, pumping systems and related facilities, grade
changes, retaining walls and landscaping, together with any trails, paths or
walkways that may be included or required under these or other provisions of
the subdivision and master planned development code. All plans and supporting
documentation must be approved by the town and/or its engineer before
commencement of any work by the developer. The developer is responsible for all
plan review fees that must be incurred by the town or its consultants.
   K.   Single-Family Homes: This provision shall apply to all construction in
the town, including single-family homes, if improvements are required in the
impact analysis; provided, however, that the amount of security required for
single-family homes shall be the reasonably estimated cost to complete
construction of any improvements and drainage works on a labor and materials
basis, and the estimated cost to complete required landscaping (to the extent
necessary to hold the soil in place and prevent erosion) on the basis of
materials only.
   L.   Phased Projects And Concurrency: On and/or off site improvements
applicable to each phase of a phased project or development shall be completed
concurrently with the first phase of the project and appropriate securities
shall be put in place to ensure that the total infrastructure is completed
along with the first phase. Phasing of improvements may be allowed only under
special circumstances as outlined by the planning commission and approved by
the town council. If phasing is allowed, adequate security for completion of
each phase must be provided to ensure that each phase of infrastructure is
constructed and either platted or occupied. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-20: [RESERVED]:
 
9-3-21: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR UNUSUAL LOT CONFIGURATIONS:
All lots shall have a front, two (2) side and a rear setback, with the
following exceptions and clarifications:
   A.   Development on corner lots shall have two (2) front setbacks. The rear
yard will be the side of the property opposite the driveway access from the
street. If it is not clear which boundary should border the rear yard, the
owner or developer may specify which is the rear yard.
   B.   Lots with more than four (4) sides shall have a side yard on either
side of the front yard. The third side yard and rear yard may be specified by
the developer or owner.
   C.   Lots with three (3) sides will have a front setback, side setback and
rear setback. In those cases where one is clearly opposite the front, the rear
setback must be opposite the driveway. If it is not clear where side and rear
setbacks should be, the developer or owner may choose which is side and which
is rear.
   D.   On those lots which border a street on both the back and front, both
sides must have a front setback.
   E.   Any lots which are not specified in this section shall have setbacks
determined by the planning commission. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-22: SENSITIVE LANDS REVIEW:
Any project falling within the sensitive lands overlay zone or containing lands
designated as sensitive by the planning commission and town council, may be
subject to additional requirements and regulations as outlined in the sensitive
lands regulations of chapter 10 of this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007
Code)
9-3-23: BED AND BREAKFAST INNS:
A bed and breakfast inn shall be approved only in compliance with this title
and the following:
   A.   The lot shall have at least thirty five feet (35') of frontage on a
dedicated street.
   B.   One off street parking space shall be provided per employee, plus one
space per guestroom. On street curbside parking may be used to satisfy this
requirement at the rate of two (2) spaces per sixty feet (60') of lot frontage
on a dedicated street.
   C.   Meals may be served to residents, employees, overnight lodgers and
guests of overnight lodgers only. No cooking facilities shall be allowed in
guestrooms.
   D.   Such use shall conform to all applicable health, safety and building
codes and must be capable of such use without structural or site alteration
which changes the residential character of the structure and yards.
   E.   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold on the premises.
   F.   No receptions, banquets or catering shall be permitted, other than for
registered lodgers.
   G.   Any commercial use shall be incidental to the bed and breakfast use,
i.e., gift shop, etc., and shall be limited to five percent (5%) of the total
square foot area of the main floor of the building.
   H.   The dwelling must be at least fifty (50) years old or receive planning
commission approval on a finding that, because of its existing or proposed
prominent spatial location, contrasts of siting or scale, it is or would be an
easily identifiable visual feature of its neighborhood or the agricultural and
rural setting of the town, or contributes to the distinctive quality or
identity of the town.
   I.   One identification sign not exceeding the area requirements for the
respective zone in which the inn is located may be placed on an ornamental
masonry wall, monument or structure that is unobtrusive and blends in well with
the surrounding character of the neighborhood or building design. The
freestanding sign shall not be higher than five feet (5'), unless the sign is
located adjacent to an arterial road, in which case the height of the sign
shall not exceed ten feet (10'). If illuminated, only hooded spot lighting is
allowed, thus prohibiting back lighted signs. In any case, the sign must be
approved by the planning commission prior to its construction.
   J.   No long term rental of rooms shall be permitted. The maximum stay for
lodgers shall be seven (7) days.
   K.   A town business license shall be obtained as a condition of approval.
   L.   Supervision by an on site manager or owner shall be required on a
twenty four (24) hour per day basis.
   M.   Care shall be taken to ensure that no exterior lighting shines directly
into adjoining properties. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-3-24: LIQUOR STORES OR PRIVATE CLUBS AS CONDITIONAL USES:
Any application for a permit to maintain a liquor store or private club shall
conform to the following additional conditions beyond those created by the
planning commission and shall comply to all aspects of this title:
   A.   No liquor store or private club may be established within three hundred
feet (300') of the nearest residential zone boundary line, measured in a
straight line from the nearest entrance of the liquor or club outlet.
   B.   Liquor stores and private clubs shall locate on either collector or
arterial streets as may be defined in the general plan.
   C.   Off street parking shall be provided at the rate of one space per one
hundred (100) square feet of total floor space in the building for liquor
stores or clubs.
   D.   A permit to maintain a liquor store or private club must be approved
directly by the planning commission. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-
2020)
9-3-25: DAYCARE SERVICES (INCLUDING PRESCHOOLS):
   A.   "Family daycare" services, as defined in chapter 2 of this title,
require a business license. The provider is limited to the number of children
permitted by state law. The provider must reside in the residence where
services are provided. The provider must receive a license from the state
within sixty (60) days after approval by the town.
   B.   "Family group daycare" services, as defined in chapter 2 of this title,
requires a city business license. The provider is limited to the number of
children permitted by state law. The provider must reside in the residence
where services are provided. The subject residence must conform to the
international building code prior to operating the facility. The provider must
receive a license from the state within sixty (60) days after approval by the
town.
   C.   "Child daycare" or "childcare center", as defined in chapter 2 of this
title, requires a city business license. All centers must comply with the
international building code prior to occupancy and must receive a license from
the state within sixty (60) days after approval by the town. (Ord., 1-18-2005;
amd. 2007 Code; Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-3-26: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Purpose And Objectives: The following regulations are provided to
accommodate those uses of land or buildings which are temporary in nature and
are not therefore listed as regular permitted or conditional uses in any zone
of the town. The character of these uses is such that proper conditions are
required to protect adjacent properties and the general health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town. Any building or structure which does not
meet the requirements of this section shall be treated as a permanent land use
and shall conform to all required standards of the building, health, fire,
zoning and other similar codes.
   B.   Uses Allowed:
      1.   Uses allowed on a temporary basis in accordance with provisions of
this section may include, but are not limited to, the following: carnivals,
circuses, fireworks stands, fireworks displays, Christmas tree lots,
promotional displays, tents for religious services, revivals, retreats,
political rallies or campaign headquarters. Uses shall be allowed for not more
than forty five (45) days' duration and shall not be allowed in the sensitive
lands overlay zones.
      2.   A temporary use permit shall not be required for a garage sale;
provided, that the garage sale shall not operate for more than a total of five
(5) days in any calendar year, and shall be conducted by bona fide residents of
the premises. Goods for sale shall consist of personal belongings of the
residents. Goods offered for sale shall not be placed over a public sidewalk or
in a public right of way.
   C.   Prior Approval Required: Prior to the establishment of any of the above
uses, or any qualifying temporary use (except fireworks stands or fireworks
displays, permits for which shall be administered by the fire department), a
temporary use permit must be obtained from the planning commission with any
conditions specified on the permit as required by the town. Specific conditions
may be required of the applicant and compliance to the conditions and the
international building code, if applicable, shall become necessary to the
granting, continuance or administration of the permit. Any application for such
permit shall meet any necessary requirements of this title and this section,
and shall be made by the property owner or his/her authorized agent. The
granting of said permit shall require the following findings:
      1.   The conduct of the requested use will not have any detrimental
effects on adjacent properties and will be in general harmony with surrounding
uses.
      2.   The requested use will not create excessive traffic or parking
hazards on adjacent streets and that traffic control, if necessary, shall be
provided at the expense of the applicant.
      3.   The applicant shall have sufficient liability insurance for the
requested use or event.
   D.   Standards And Requirements: A temporary use established under the
provisions of this section shall conform to the following standards and
requirements:
      1.   Any structure requiring sanitary facilities by building, fire,
health or other similar codes shall be located on the same lot as a host
structure unless independent water and sewer service is provided to the
temporary structure. Where such codes require sanitary facilities, they may be
provided by a host structure; provided, that there is:
         a.   No preparation of any food on the premises;
         b.   No indoor seating of patrons;
         c.   Written evidence that a host structure will provide permanent
sanitary facilities for any employees and that such facilities are conveniently
located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the structure and will be
accessible during all periods of operation of the use;
         d.   Written evidence from the town or county health department that
all food will be prepared and delivered from an approved commissary and that
all waste resulting from the operation of the use will be properly disposed.
      2.   The minimum required parking shall be two (2) spaces, except that a
reasonable number of additional parking places may be required. Such parking
shall not have the effect of decreasing any existing parking that is required
for any other use existing on the site. All parking shall meet the standards
for off street parking as specified in this chapter, except that required
parking may be provided on a gravel rather than a concrete or asphalt cement
surface.
      3.   The layout of the proposed use shall be compatible with the access,
parking, circulation and other significant elements of any other uses or
structures existing on the site.
      4.   All structures shall be securely anchored to the ground at not less
than four (4) points as directed by the building official or town engineer.
      5.   The right to occupy the site shall be secured by a written agreement
with the owner of the parcel and the owner of any host structures. Said
agreement shall address the question of use of restroom facilities by
employees, responsibility for maintenance and restoration of the site upon
termination of the use. A copy of the proposed agreement shall be part of the
application.
      6.   Approval for each temporary use permit shall bear an expiration date
based upon the nature of the use. In no case shall approval be given for a
period exceeding forty five (45) days. Garage sales need not obtain a temporary
use permit, but shall not operate the sale for a period exceeding five (5) days
in any calendar year, and shall be conducted by bona fide residents or lessors
of the premises. Goods for sale shall consist of household type items used by
residents of the premises. If any temporary structure becomes vacant prior to
the expiration of the permit, it shall be removed within fifteen (15) days of
the vacancy.
      7.   The landowner of the parcel shall provide a cash bond for the
restoration of the site of said use to its original condition, including
cleanup, replacement of facilities, and removal of any structures according to
the following schedule:
         a.   Circus, carnival or related uses: One thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
         b.   All other temporary uses: Three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   E.   Action On Application: A use meeting the requirements stated above
shall be approved and a use not meeting the requirements stated above shall be
denied, or may be approved with appropriate conditions to assure that the use
will be compatible with and will not pose any detriment to persons or property.
Said conditions may include a limitation upon hours of operation and/or a time
limitation which is less than the maximum established by this section.
   F.   Revocation Of Permit: A permit may be revoked in the event of a
violation of any of the provisions of this section or the conditions set forth
in the temporary use permit.
   G.   Business License Required: A temporary use permit is not a business
license and the granting of said permit shall not relieve the permittee of any
other license requirement of the town or any other public agency.
   H.   Fees: In order to offset a portion of the costs incurred by the town in
processing temporary use permits, a fee may be charged as established by the
town in its fee and/or rate resolutions as may be applicable at the time.
   I.   Christmas Tree Sales; Permit:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale in the
town, any cut fir, evergreen or Christmas tree, without a permit, except when
the permit requirement is specifically waived by the planning commission.
      2.   A permit to sell cut fir, evergreen or Christmas trees shall be
obtained as otherwise described in this section. The permit required by this
section shall allow tree sales for a period of forty five (45) days ending
December 25 of the year in which the permit is issued. The fee charged for the
permit described in this section shall be in lieu of a business license fee;
provided, however, that no fee shall be charged for the permit required by this
section if:
         a.   The applicant possesses a business license for which the
applicable fee, if any, has been paid; and
         b.   The applicant complies with the provisions of this section,
except for the payment of a permit fee; and
         c.   The applicant provides documentation showing that the trees to be
sold have been lawfully cut, and are owned by the applicant.
   J.   Town Celebrations Or Events: Any town sponsored celebrations or special
events of a temporary nature, including, but not limited to, the annual Fourth
of July celebration, is exempt from the requirements of obtaining a temporary
use permit as described by this section. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-
17-2020)
9-3-27: [RESERVED]:
 
9-3-28: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   General Requirements: There shall be provided and maintained at the
time of erection of any main building or structure off street parking space
with adequate provisions for ingress and egress by standard sized vehicles as
hereinafter set forth. Such parking space shall be located on the same lot as
the building it is to serve. No parking shall back directly onto any street.
   B.   Remodeling Or Enlargement Of Buildings: Whenever existing buildings are
enlarged or increased in capacity, or a change in use occurs, additional off
street parking spaces shall be provided which will meet the requirements
applying to such enlargement or change in use.
   C.   Quantity Of Parking Spaces: The number of parking spaces for uses not
specified herein shall be determined by the planning commission being guided
where appropriate by the regulations set forth herein and table
9-3-28, subsection K of this section, for uses of buildings which are similar
to the use or building under consideration.
   D.   Setback Exclusions And Conflicts: In a residential zone, no part of any
private or public parking lot shall be located in a setback adjacent to a
street, except under the following circumstances:
      1.   A parking lot may be approved in the portion of a front setback area
which is outside the area formed by two (2) lines which extend from the
outermost dimensions of the building perpendicular to the property line
adjacent to the street, provided there is a minimum of ten feet (10') of
landscaping adjacent to the street, there is a total of at least thirty feet
(30') of landscaping between the street and the building, and the landscaping
plan is approved by the planning commission.
      2.   A parking lot may be approved in any portion of a front setback
area, provided there is a minimum of ten feet (10') of landscaping adjacent to
the street, there is a total of at least thirty feet (30') of landscaping
between the street and the building, and the landscaping plan is approved by
the planning commission.
      3.   A parking lot may be approved in the area of a side setback facing a
street, provided there is a minimum of ten feet (10') of landscaping adjacent
to the street, there is a total of twenty feet (20') of landscaping between the
street and the building, and the landscaping plan is approved by the planning
commission.
      4.   In cases where there is a unique lot configuration, or an existing
structure that the applicant is remodeling, or when it is necessary to change
the parking requirements, the appeal authority may, upon appeal of the
applicant, consider lowering the landscaping requirements immediately adjacent
to an arterial street, providing such variance does not create increased
unreasonable hazards to the health, safety and general welfare of the residents
in the area.
   E.   Landscaping: In reviewing the landscape plans, the planning commission
shall consider the location, number, size and type of plants, the method of
irrigation to be used and other similar factors.
   F.   Conversion Of Parking To Other Uses: Space allocated to comply with
these regulations shall not be used later for additional structures or uses
unless other space so complying is provided.
   G.   Area Of Spaces: For the purpose of this chapter, a space of not less
than eight and one-half feet by twenty feet (81/2' x 20') of lot area with
access to public streets by standard sized automobiles shall be deemed to be
parking space for one vehicle.
   H.   Mixed Or Combined Parking Uses: In the case of mixed uses on the same
site, the amount of off street parking spaces required shall be the sum of the
parking required under this section for the principal use, together with a
reasonable amount for all accessory uses. Said reasonable amount shall be
determined in light of the uses, location and circumstances of the building or
structure and in consideration of the provisions of this title.
   I.   Parking Surfaces: All required parking areas shall be surfaced with
either concrete or bituminous asphalt as approved as to specifications by the
town engineer.
   J.   Parking Vehicles On Vacant Lots: It shall be unlawful for the owner of
a motor vehicle to park it or allow it to be parked on the property of another
person for the purpose of displaying it for sale, unless the person upon whose
property it is parked or the lessee of such property has a town business
license to engage in the business of selling motor vehicles at that location.
It shall also be unlawful for the owner or lessee of such property to allow
another person to park a motor vehicle on the property for the purpose of
displaying it for sale unless such owner or lessee has a business license to
engage in the business of selling motor vehicles at that location.
   K.   Specific Requirements By Use: Minimum on site and off street parking
spaces for individual or similar uses shall be provided for in accordance with
table
9-3-28 as follows and as interpreted by the planning commission for uses not
specific to those listed in the following table. Note that SLU means standard
land use codes, and corresponding codes may be found in appendix A to this
title, which is on file in the city office:
TABLE 9-3-28 PARKING REQUIREMENTS PER USE
SLU Code Category Number Of Spaces Required Per Unit Description
SLU Code Category                           Number Of Spaces Required Per Unit
                                            Description
1100     Household units                    2 per each unit up to fourplexes
1200     Group quarters                     1 per sleeping room, except SLU
                                            code 1241
1241     Retirement homes/centers           1 per 2 beds
1300     Residential hotels                 1 per sleeping room, plus parking
                                            for accessory uses
1400     Mobile home parks                  2 per each unit, plus 1 guest
                                            parking space for 3 units
1500     Transient lodging                  1 per unit, plus parking for
                                            accessory uses
2000     Manufacturing plants               1 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
3000     Manufacturing plants               1 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
4212     Bus passenger terminals            1 per 200 square feet of building
                                            area
4221     Motor freight terminals            1.25 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
4700     Communications                     1.5 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
4813     Electricity regulating station     1 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
4822     Gas production plant               1 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
4832     Water treatment plant              1 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
4841     Sewage treatment plant             1 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
                                            1 per employee at highest
5100     Wholesale                          employment shift, or per 2,000
                                            square feet of floor space,
                                            whichever is greater
5200     Building materials, hardware       3 per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                            area
5300     General merchandise                5 per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                            area
5400     Food - retail                      5.5 per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                            area
5500     Automotive                         5 base, plus 1 per employee
5600     Apparel and accessories            5 per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                            area
5700     Furniture and home furnishings,    1 per 600 square feet of floor area
         equipment
5800     Eating and drinking places         1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 4
                                            seats
5900     Other retail                       5 per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                            area
6100     Finance, insurance and real estate 1 per 250 square feet of floor area
6211     Laundry and dry cleaning           1.5 per employee, plus 3 additional
6220     Photographic services              1 per 200 square feet of floor area
6230     Beauty and barber                  2 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
6240     Funeral parlors                    12 per 250 square feet of floor
                                            area
6250     Apparel repairs                    1 per 200 square feet of floor area
6300     Business services                  1 per 200 square feet of floor area
6370     Warehouse and storage              1 per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                            area
6400     Repair                             1 per 250 square feet of floor
                                            area, except SLU 6411
6411     Repair, auto                       6 per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                            area
6500     Professional                       1 per 300 square feet of floor
                                            area, except SLU 6513 and 6516
6513     Hospital services                  1 per bed, or per 1,000 square
                                            feet, whichever is greater
6516     Rest homes and convalescent        1 per 2 beds, or per 1,000 square
                                            feet, whichever is more
6600     Contract construction              1 per employee at highest
                                            employment shift
6710     Government offices                 1 per 250 square feet of floor area
         Educational:                       1 per employee
         Nursery, daycare                   2 per teaching station
6800     Grades K-8                         3 per teaching station
         Grades 9-12                        15 per teaching station
         Colleges and trade schools
6911     Churches, temples, etc.            1 per 4 seats, or 4 person seating
                                            capacity
                                            1 per 3.5 seats or 3.5 person
7100-    Cultural, amusement and recreation seating capacity, based on a
7900                                        maximum use of all facilities at
                                            the same time
 
(Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-3-29: SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING:
   A.   General Requirements: The following general requirements shall apply to
all signs and outdoor advertising structures which may be erected or maintained
within the town.
      1.   Sign Approval: Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful
and a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to erect or maintain any sign or outdoor advertising
structure in the town without first obtaining the approval of the planning
commission for said sign or advertising structure, the giving of which shall be
based upon the provisions of this section. Said approval shall not be required
for temporary nonelectrical wall and nonelectrical freestanding signs of less
than thirty two (32) square feet in area. (Examples of signs not requiring
planning commission approval are real estate "for sale" signs and election
campaign signs.)
      2.   Permits: The approval of the planning commission shall be evidenced
by a permit issued by the building official. All signs shall be constructed and
all permits shall be in accordance with the provisions of the international
building code. All standards in this section are minimum standards, greater
restrictions or limitations may be imposed by the planning commission. Permits
for off premises nonconforming signs shall be renewed on an annual basis.
Applications for permits, or for the renewal of permits, shall require the
applicant to disclose the owner of the sign and the owner of the property on
which the sign is or will be located, all relevant dates in regard to
expiration of any lease or lease option, the date and cost of construction of
the sign, the date and cost of any modification of the sign, the fair market
value as appraised for property tax purposes, the date the sign will be
depreciated for federal income tax purposes, the cost of operating the sign,
and any other information reasonably required by the planning commission. A
permit may be revoked and a sign removed pursuant to subsection A7 of this
section if the applicant for a permit makes a false or misleading statement in
the permit application or renewal.
      3.   Animated Signs: Flashing or rotating signs may be allowed in
business (B) and retail (RT2) zones with appropriate conditions. Flashing shall
be limited to sequential, chasing or subdued color change. No intense strobe
type flashing will be permitted. Rotation shall be limited to eight (8)
revolutions per minute; provided, however, that the lights described above may
not be used within five hundred feet (500') of a residence, apartment, hotel or
other residential structure.
      4.   Sound Or Emissions: No sign shall be designed for the purpose of
emitting sound, smoke or steam.
      5.   Movable, Freestanding Signs: Movable, freestanding signs are
acceptable for a thirty (30) day period.
      6.   Canopy Signs: Signs painted on or affixed to canopies which are part
of the building shall be considered part of the total allowed area of wall
signs for the walls from which the canopy projects. Signs painted on or affixed
to canopies which are freestanding shall be considered part of the total
allowable area of freestanding signs for that use. Signs suspended under
canopies (marquees) which project over public rights of way shall be limited to
six (6) square feet.
      7.   Violations:
         a.   It is unlawful to erect or maintain a sign contrary to the
provisions of this section. If a sign is erected or maintained in violation of
this section, the planning commission may do the following:
            (1)   Order the defect corrected within a fixed period of time, not
exceeding thirty (30) days, if correction of the defect will bring the subject
sign into compliance with the provisions of this section; but
            (2)   If correction of the defect will result in a violation of the
provisions of this section, order that the subject sign be removed by, and at
the expense of, the owner of the sign, within a fixed period of time not
exceeding thirty (30) days.
         b.   If the owner of the sign contests the order of the planning
commission, the remedy shall be an appeal to the board of adjustment, which
appeal shall be taken in the time and manner otherwise provided in this title
for appeals to the board of adjustment. If the owner of the sign fails or
refuses to remove the subject sign at the order of the planning commission, the
town may remove the sign at any time after the owner thereof exhausts his or
her administrative remedies in relation thereto, unless otherwise ordered by a
court of law. Removal by the town shall be at the expense of the owner, and the
town may obtain judgment against the owner in an amount equal thereto, together
with reasonable attorney fees and costs.
   B.   Signs On Premises: Except as provided within the provisions of
respective zoning districts, and unless otherwise expressly provided in this
section, no sign shall be permitted which is not used exclusively to advertise
the ownership, sale or lease of property upon which said sign is placed, or to
advertise a business conducted, services rendered, goods produced or sold upon
such premises, or to advertise or identify any other lawful activity conducted
upon such premises.
   C.   Exceptions: This chapter shall have no application to signs used
exclusively for:
      1.   The display of official notices used by any court or public body or
official, or the posting of notices by any public officer in the performance of
a duty, or by any person giving legal notice.
      2.   Directional, warning or information signs of a public or semipublic
nature, directed and maintained by an official body or public utility.
      3.   Barber poles not to exceed six feet (6') in height located on
private property and bearing no advertising copy or message.
      4.   Any sign of a noncommercial nature when used to protect the health,
safety or welfare of the general public.
      5.   Any official flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city,
town or other political unit.
      6.   Time and temperature signs and elements of commercial signs which
convey only time, temperature or weather conditions.
   D.   Location Standards: All signs and outdoor advertising structures shall
comply with the following location requirements:
      1.   Fire Escapes: No sign shall be erected in such a manner that any
portion of the sign or its support will interfere with the use of any fire
escape, exit or standpipe, or obstruct any required stairway, door, ventilator
or window.
      2.   Traffic: No freestanding or projecting sign shall be erected at any
intersection improved for vehicular traffic within a triangular area formed by
the property lines and their projections and a line connecting them at points
twenty five feet (25') from the intersections of the projecting property lines;
unless the sign in its entirety is less than three feet (3'), or more than
eight feet (8') above the curb grade, no part of its means or support has a
single or joined horizontal dimension exceeding twelve inches (12"), or said
sign is within an area in which a building or structure is permitted by the
provisions of the respective zone.
      3.   Utility Lines: No sign shall be erected or maintained which has less
horizontal or vertical clearance from communication lines and energized
electrical power lines than that prescribed by the laws of the state or rules
and regulations duly promulgated by agencies thereof.
      4.   Clearance: No sign shall be erected in such a manner that any
portion of the sign or its support will extend over a public or private walkway
with a minimum clearance of less than ten feet (10').
   E.   Special Purpose Signs: In addition to any other permitted signs, signs
for special purposes set forth in this subsection shall be permitted as
provided herein:
      1.   For Sale, Rent Or Lease Signs: In all zoning districts, signs may be
erected to advertise the sale, rent or lease of property upon which said signs
are placed. Said signs shall be limited to one sign per street face, unless
otherwise provided by the zoning provisions, and shall not exceed an area of
six (6) square feet in residential zones or thirty two (32) square feet in
nonresidential zoning districts. Said signs shall be exempt from project plan
approval.
      2.   Directory Signs: In all districts where group occupancies in office
buildings, commercial buildings or industrial buildings are permitted,
directory signs may be erected displaying the names of occupants of a building
who are engaged in a particular profession, business or industrial pursuit.
Said sign shall be situated at least two feet (2') inside the property line and
shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height. Said sign shall not exceed an area
of fifty (50) square feet and shall not be placed within a clear vision area of
a corner lot as set forth in this section.
      3.   Construction Project Signs: Signs may be erected in conjunction with
construction projects and used for the purpose of publicizing the future
occupants of the building; architects, engineers and construction organizations
participating in the project; and such other information as may be approved by
the planning commission. In residential districts, no such sign shall exceed
thirty two (32) square feet in area. In other districts, no such sign shall
exceed an area of sixty four (64) square feet, and no freestanding sign shall
exceed twelve feet (12') in height. All such signs shall be removed before a
final inspection is granted by the building inspector or an occupancy permit is
issued.
      4.   On/Off Site Directional Signs: Directional signs may be erected for
the purpose of facilitating or controlling the efficient or safe movement of
pedestrians or vehicles on or into private property and shall be located on the
properties to which they pertain. No such sign shall exceed six (6) square
feet.
      5.   Open House Signs: Open house signs advertising real estate open for
inspection for a prospective sale may be placed on private property in all
districts with the consent of the owner, lessee or occupant. Such signs may
state the name of the person or firm sponsoring the open house. Such signs
shall not exceed six (6) square feet.
      6.   Church, Quasi-Public Organizations And Apartment House
Identification Signs: In all districts, a church or quasi-public organization
may erect one wall sign on the premises to identify the name of the
organization and announce activities thereof. Apartment houses of five (5) or
more dwelling units may erect one sign on the premises to identify only the
name of the apartment complex and to indicate a vacancy. Said wall sign shall
not exceed an area of twenty five (25) square feet, and may be mounted upon a
freestanding, ornamental masonry, wood or stone wall.
      7.   Bus Bench Signs: In all zones, one bus bench sign may be installed
at each bona fide bus stop along a public transit route, provided the owners of
said benches are authorized to operate in the town and advertising on said
benches does not exceed an area of twenty (20) square feet each.
      8.   Development Promotional And Directional Signs: One development
promotional sign may be placed on the premises of each subdivision, master
planned development or condominium project having four (4) or more lots or
approved dwelling units. Said promotional sign may have an area of thirty two
(32) square feet. A second development promotional sign may be placed on the
premises of each subdivision, planned development or condominium project having
two (2) or more separate, major points of access and having fifty (50) or more
lots or approved dwelling units. Said promotional sign may have an area of
thirty two (32) square feet. In addition, two (2) directional signs may be
located off site to contain only the name and direction of any subdivision or
master planned development. Said signs may have a maximum area of twelve (12)
square feet each and shall not be located in the right of way of any public
street. All of the signs in this subsection shall be removed not later than
thirty (30) days following the sale of all lots or dwelling units in said
development, and before a final inspection is granted by the building
inspector.
      9.   Nameplates: One nameplate or marker shall be allowed for each
dwelling to indicate only the occupant's name. Said nameplate shall not exceed
two (2) square feet in area, and shall not contain an occupation designation.
   F.   Classification Of Signs: Every sign erected or proposed to be erected
within the town shall be classified by the planning commission in accordance
with the definitions of signs contained in this section. Any sign which does
not clearly fall within one of the classifications shall be placed in the
classification which the sign, in view of its design, location and purpose,
most clearly approximates, in the opinion of the planning commission.
   G.   Agricultural And Residential Zones: No sign shall be erected in any
agricultural or any residential zones except as provided within the provisions
of the respective zoning districts as established in this title, except that
certain special purpose signs may be erected in all zones in compliance with
the provisions of subsection E of this section.
   H.   Commercial Zones: For each place of business or occupancy within a
commercial zone, the following types of signs shall be permitted in conformance
with the standards set forth:
      1.   Freestanding Signs Under Five Feet In Height: Appurtenant
freestanding signs five feet (5') or less in height shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   Area: Area shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet.
         b.   Number: There may be one such sign for each frontage of the
property, plus one additional sign for each one hundred foot (100') increment
of said frontage in excess of two hundred feet (200'). Said signs shall be
placed no closer than fifty feet (50') apart. In the case of a parcel of
property having multiple occupancies with a common frontage, the frontage shall
be deemed to be that of the entire commonly used parcel of property and not the
frontage of the individual business or occupancies.
      2.   Freestanding Signs Over Five Feet In Height: Appurtenant,
freestanding signs over five feet (5') in height shall comply with the
following provisions:
         a.   Area: Shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet.
         b.   Number: There may be one such sign on each street frontage and
one additional sign for any portion of each such frontage in excess of three
hundred feet (300').
         c.   Height: No such sign shall exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.
         d.   Projection: No such sign shall project over a property line, nor
more than five feet (5') into any required front yard.
      3.   Wall Signs And Painted Wall Signs: Except as otherwise provided in
this section, every wall sign and painted wall sign in a commercial zone shall
comply with the following requirements:
         a.   Area: The maximum area shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%)
of the wall on which the sign is painted or mounted.
         b.   Number: There may be two (2) such signs for each building face,
the size to be determined by the planning commission. No building shall be
deemed to have more than four (4) building faces.
         c.   Height: No part of any such sign shall extend above the top level
of the wall upon, or in front of, which it is situated.
         d.   Projection: No such sign, including any light box or structural
part, shall project more than eighteen inches (18") from the face of the part
of the building to which it is attached. No copy is permitted on the sides of
any such sign.
      4.   Roof Signs: Roof signs in commercial zones shall comply with the
following requirements:
         a.   Area: The area of a roof sign shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the wall face area under the roof in the direction the sign is
facing, or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less.
         b.   Number: There shall be no more than one such sign for the roof of
each business establishment.
         c.   Height: No part of any such sign shall extend more than five feet
(5') above the highest point of the roof.
         d.   Projection: No part of any such sign shall project beyond the
front line of the building.
         e.   Support: No roof sign shall be erected in such a manner that
there is any visible support.
         f.   Animation: No part of any such sign shall have any animation.
   I.   Business (B) Zone: Signs permitted in the business (B) zone shall
include freestanding signs under five feet (5'), and wall signs and painted
wall signs, all in conformance with the following provisions:
      1.   Freestanding Signs Under Five Feet In Height: Freestanding signs
under five feet (5') in height may be permitted in any business (B) zone in
conformance with the following:
         a.   Area: The maximum area shall not exceed one hundred (100) square
feet.
         b.   Number: There may be one such sign for each parcel of land in the
business (B) zone.
         c.   Height: The maximum height of such sign shall be five feet (5').
      2.   Wall Signs And Painted Wall Signs: Wall signs and painted wall signs
may be created in any business (B) zone as follows:
         a.   Area: Sign area shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
wall on which the sign is painted or mounted.
         b.   Number: There shall be one such sign only on each face of the
building which fronts upon a public street.
         c.   Height: No part of any such sign shall project above the wall or
building face upon which it is mounted or painted.
         d.   Projection: No such sign, including any light box or structural
part, shall project more than eighteen inches (18") from the face of the part
of the building to which it is attached. No copy is permitted on the sides of
any such sign.
   J.   Other Zones: For those zoning districts which do not have sign
regulations as a part of the zone provisions, and for those which are not
readily placed into classifications referred to in preceding subsections, the
planning commission shall classify said zones as either: residential,
agricultural, retail or business zones, depending upon the similarity of the
characteristics and permitted uses of said zone to those already classified.
When such a classification has been made by the planning commission, the sign
provisions applying to the respective classification shall apply to said zones.
(Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
   K.   Off Premises Advertising Structures:
      1.   Prohibition Of New Off Premises Signs: Except for off premises
public information and logo signs meeting the size, shape, color and other
requirements described in subsection K2 of this section, no permits shall be
issued for the construction of off premises signs or outdoor advertising
structures. All lawfully existing off premises signs and outdoor advertising
structures are nonconforming uses in all zones of the town.
      2.   Public Information And Logo Signs: Off premises public information
signs are permitted pursuant to this subsection for the purpose of directing
the traveling public to points of interest, historical sites and other
locations of interest, approved as such by the planning commission.
Specifications for off premises information signs are set forth in the "Manual
Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices", as adopted by the town and all such signs
shall comply with these specifications. Off premises "logo" signs are permitted
under this section for the purpose of directing the traveling and general
public to business establishments which provide lodging, food, camping, gas or
other services. Identified by the state department of transportation as the
logo sign program, these signs shall comply with the following regulations:
         a.   Logo Sign Program: In constructing and maintaining a logo sign
program of signs, the owner and installation contractor shall comply with and
adhere to all applicable state and federal laws and regulations, and to UDOT
policy and procedure. All signs that will be placed within the town, must be
approved by the town planning commission prior to installation.
         b.   Logo Structures: All logo structures shall conform to
specifications as shown in the state department of transportation approved
drawings or must be approved by the planning commission. Directional signs
shall not exceed forty two inches by forty eight inches (42" x 48") in size and
accommodate no more than two (2) businesses.
         c.   Placement: Placement of logo signs within the town shall follow
the guidelines outlined in any applicable contracts with the state department
of transportation. Contractors shall obtain the necessary approval and permits
from the town.
         d.   Height: No sign shall exceed twelve feet (12') from ground level.
         e.   Offset: In general, the offset (location) of the sign shall be
set back equal to existing signage in the right of way. If no other signage
exists, offsets shall be no less than eight feet (8'). All locations must be
reviewed and approved by the town for traffic safety.
         f.   Design: Business logo sign design shall consist of the business
name, trademark or symbol, provided it does not resemble any traffic sign,
symbol or device. The business symbol, name, etc., must be consistent on all
business signs for that business. Business logos will contain no supplemental
advertising and be uniform in size. The size of the logo plates shall be
eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24").
         g.   Number: There may not be more than one directional sign per type
(camping, gas, lodging, food, etc.) per each location.
         h.   Removal: If any business which is participating in logo sign
program closes, the logo for said business must be removed within fifteen (15)
days from closure of said business. If said signs are declared to be a traffic
hazard, they must be removed as determined by the town engineer. Failure to
remove the sign within the fifteen (15) day period shall be unlawful, the sign
shall be a nuisance, and the sign thereafter may be removed by the town and the
expense of removal charged to the owner.
      3.   Acquisition Of Interests: The town may acquire title to off premises
nonconforming signs or outdoor advertising structures by gift, purchase
agreement, exchange or eminent domain, and shall have the right to amortize off
premises nonconforming signs as permitted by state or federal law.
   L.   Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   On Premises Signs: All on premises or appurtenant signs which have
been made nonconforming by the adoption of provisions contained within this
title shall be subject to the following regulations:
         a.   Unsafe Signs: Any sign or portion thereof declared unsafe by a
proper public authority must be restored to a safe condition or removed within
thirty (30) days of mailing or otherwise given notice of the unsafe condition.
         b.   Alterations: A nonconforming sign shall not be reconstructed,
raised, moved, placed, extended or enlarged unless said sign is changed so as
to conform to all provisions of this title. Alterations shall also mean
changing of the text or message that the sign is conveying from one use of the
premises to another use of the premises, and the changing of the ownership of
the sign when that ownership necessitates a change in the text or message of
the sign. Alterations shall not be interpreted to include changing the text or
copy on off premises advertising signs, theater signs, outdoor billboards or
other similar signs which are designed to accommodate changeable copy.
         c.   Restoration: Nonconforming signs which have been allowed to
deteriorate or which have been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, act of a
public enemy, or damaged by any other cause, to the extent of more than sixty
percent (60%) of its assessed value shall, if repaired or rebuilt, be repaired
or rebuilt in conformity with the regulations of this title or shall be
removed.
      2.   Off Premises Signs: All off premises signs which are made
nonconforming uses by the provisions of this title shall be subject to the
following:
         a.   Unsafe Signs: Any sign or portion thereof found or declared
unsafe in a manner provided by law, which may be repaired without violating
subsection L2b of this section, must be restored to a safe condition within
thirty (30) days after the owner is given notice of the unsafe condition. Any
sign not repaired as required and permitted by this subsection is unlawfully
maintained and subject to the provisions of this subsection.
         b.   Alterations: All off premises signs and their supporting
structures shall be kept in good appearance and condition with normal
maintenance and repair (example: painting), but it shall be unlawful to
reconstruct, raise, move, place, extend or enlarge such signs or the structure
supporting such signs. Any sign altered contrary to the provisions of this
subsection is unlawfully maintained and subject to the provisions of this
subsection.
         c.   Deterioration And Abandonment: A nonconforming off premises sign
or sign structure that ceases to be used for sign purposes for a period of one
year shall be deemed abandoned on the grounds that: 1) the nonconforming use
has been abandoned; 2) the nonconforming use has substantially changed; and/or
3) such other grounds as may be appropriate. Any sign or sign structure which
is abandoned or in an unreasonable state of repair is unlawfully maintained and
subject to immediate revocation of its permit and removal pursuant to the
provisions of this title.
         d.   Termination Of Nonconforming Signs: Except where preempted by
federal law, a sign permit for an existing off premises nonconforming sign
shall terminate and the sign shall be removed pursuant to the provisions of
this title on the date the owner of the sign has been able to recover or
amortize the fair market value of the sign pursuant to state law. Using
relevant information, including, but not limited to, information provided by
the sign owner in the sign permit application, relevant aesthetic and traffic
engineering information, and amortization periods used by other jurisdictions,
the town may establish an amortization period and condemnation value for each
nonconforming sign as of March 14, 1995, that balances the harm to the owner
against the public good, without imposing an undue burden upon the owner. The
amortization value may not be less than the condemnation value, but no more,
and shall take into consideration the cost of operation to the owner over the
amortization period. A sign maintained after expiration of the related permit,
as described in this subsection, is unlawfully maintained and subject to
revocation of its permit and removal.
   M.   Definitions: The following words and phrases, whenever used in this
title, shall be construed as defined in this section:
A-FRAME SIGN: Any sign or structure composed of two (2) sign faces mounted or
attached back to back in such a manner as to form a basically triangular
vertical cross section through the faces.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign which is designed and constructed to give its message
through movement or semblance of movement created through a sequence of
progressive changes of parts, lights or degree of lighting.
APPURTENANT SIGN: See definition of On Premises Sign Or Appurtenant Sign.
BUILDING FACE: The visible outer surface of a main exterior wall of a building.
The area of the face of the building shall be the total area of such surface,
including the area of doors and windows which open into surface.
CANOPY: See definition of Marquee.
ERECT: To build, construct, place, relocate, enlarge, substantially alter,
attach, suspend, paint, post or display. Normal maintenance, including
refinishing, is not included in this definition, provided the sign copy is not
changed or altered.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign that is standing on or erected into the ground.
Such signs are usually, but not necessarily, supported from the ground by one
or more poles or posts or similar uprights, with or without braces. Any sign
which is mounted into the ground, but has the supports passing through any
portion of the roof of a building or structure, shall be considered to be a
roof sign.
FRONTAGE: The length of the sides along the street or any other principal
public thoroughfare, but not including such length along an alley, watercourse,
railroad, street or thoroughfare with no permitted access.
MARQUEE: Means and includes any roofed structure attached to and supported by a
building, and projecting over public property.
MOVABLE, FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign not affixed to or erected into the ground.
NONAPPURTENANT SIGN: See definition of Off Premises Sign Or Nonappurtenant
Sign.
OFF PREMISES SIGN OR NONAPPURTENANT SIGN: Any sign which advertises products,
services or business establishments which are not located, conducted,
manufactured or sold upon the same premises upon which the sign is erected.
ON PREMISES SIGN OR APPURTENANT SIGN: Any sign which advertises products,
services or business establishments which are located, conducted, manufactured
or sold on the same premises upon which the sign is erected.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: A structure erected and maintained for outdoor
advertising purposes upon which a poster, bill, printing or painting may be
placed to advertise products, goods, services or business establishments
located, conducted, manufactured or sold upon the premises on which the
structure is erected.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign attached to a building or structural wall and
extending horizontally outward from such wall more than eighteen inches (18").
PROPERTY: Land or real estate, with or without structures; not goods or
services.
RESIDENTIAL ZONE OR DISTRICT: Any zone which is designated by the prefix "R" in
this title.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign which is erected upon or over the roof or over a parapet of
any building or structure.
SIGN: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by which
anything is made known, such as are used to designate a firm, association,
corporation, profession, business or service, whether placed on the ground,
rocks, trees, stumps or other natural objects, or on a building, wall, roof
frame, support, fence or other manmade structure, which are visible from any
public street, public highway or public road right of way. For the purpose of
this title, the word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of
any nation, state, town or other political unit, or of a nonprofit
organization. It shall not include, further, any official notice issued by any
court, public body or officer, or directional warning or information sign or
structure required or authorized by law.
SIGN AREA: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the
minimum frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back to
back or double face sign covering the same subject shall be computed when the
signs are parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of not more than
forty five degrees (45°). In relation to signs that do not have a frame or a
separate background, sign area shall be computed on the basis of the least
rectangle, triangle or circle large enough to frame the display.
TIME AND TEMPERATURE DEVICE: Any mechanism that displays the time and/or
temperature, but does not display any commercial advertising or identification.
WALL SIGN: Any sign posted or painted upon, suspended from or otherwise affixed
to a wall, fascia, canopy or marquee in an essentially vertical position, or
with exposed face of the sign in a place approximately parallel with the wall
or fascia upon which it is attached.
WIND SIGN: Any propeller, whirligig or similar commercial device which is
designed to flutter, rotate or display other movement under the influence of
wind. This definition shall not include pennants, flags or banners. (Ord., 1-
18-2005)
9-3-30: DESIGN REVIEW:
   A.   Scope Of Regulations:
      1.   The town council and planning commission, which advises the town
council on zoning matters, have determined that the various aspects of
architectural design have a significant impact on the character and value of
the town's rural agricultural neighborhoods and business districts, and that
preserving and enhancing this character requires the existence of a certain
harmony and compatibility in these aspects, from one building to the next and
throughout the particular neighborhood or district. They have also determined
that preserving and enhancing the visual character of certain entryways to the
town, and areas of unique historical and/or architectural significance,
furthers the economic and cultural well being of the community.
      2.   These minimum design standards address valuable design relationships
and site planning principles. They are standards that could apply to any area
of the town. However, the requirements of this section shall only apply to
areas of the town for which the design review process has been designated by
the planning commission and town council. How they apply in any given district
or zone will depend on the characteristics of that particular area. To that
end, the town council and planning commission will adopt, from time to time,
district guidelines based on existing design characteristics and needs commonly
observed in those districts and/or zones. Those specific guidelines shall be
referenced in the particular zone for which the design review process has been
designated.
      3.   The intent of these standards is to identify a range of design
options which will encourage development compatible with the existing character
of a district and which will discourage introduction of incompatible features.
If the planning commission wishes, they may recommend to the town council that
a design review committee be formed to assist the planning commission in the
administering of this section.
   B.   Design Review Committee:
      1.   In accordance with the duties and powers of the planning commission
outlined in chapter 4 of this title, the planning commission may recommend
persons to serve on a design review committee when one is needed to help
implement this section. Those recommended shall be representative of the
following groups: the planning commission, the staff, design professionals,
development community, and property owners from the affected district. Members
of the committee shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent
of the town council. The design review committee shall organize bylaws or
administrative procedures and operate under the authority of this section. The
committee may adopt design standards as appropriate that meet those guidelines
or enhance upon those listed below. The committee shall meet at such times and
places and as often as they or the planning commission shall deem necessary to
review the applications.
      2.   The administrative procedures adopted shall apply to all requests
for a certificate of appropriateness. For purposes of these procedures, the
design review committee shall be considered staff to the planning commission.
Unless the planning commission shall otherwise direct, an applicant for a
certificate of appropriateness may in writing consent to the committee's
recommendation and waive further design action by the planning commission. If
the applicant waives further action by the planning commission, the committee
recommendation shall be considered approved by the planning commission and the
certificate of appropriateness may be issued. Any appeal from the committee's
decision shall be reviewed by the full planning commission. If necessary, the
decision of the commission may then be appealed to the board of adjustment, and
ultimately to the courts.
   C.   Types Of Certificates Of Appropriateness: The planning commission and
its design review committee will be reviewing five (5) different kinds of
"construction" activity that need certificates of appropriateness, and each
kind will need a slightly different application of the guidelines below and
additional standards as may be adopted:
      1.   For the construction of new buildings and parts of buildings, the
focus of the guidelines is on the compatibility of new construction with the
existing character of the district without dictating style or taste.
      2.   For reconstruction, remodeling and repair of existing structures,
the guidelines seek to guide and encourage rehabilitation in line with the
original character of the structure.
      3.   For relocation of buildings to sites within the district, the
guidelines seek to ensure that buildings moved to sites within the district are
compatible with the surrounding buildings and are suitably situated on the lot.
      4.   For the demolition or removal of all or parts of existing buildings,
the focus of the guidelines is to find feasible alternatives to the demolition,
or at least compatible replacement.
      5.   For sign permits, the guidelines seek to ensure that the sign is
designed as an integral architectural element of the building and site to which
it relates and is compatible with the overall character of the district.
   D.   Harmony Of Design Guidelines:
      1.   To preserve the design character of the existing development, to
protect the rural, countryside visual pattern of the community, and to promote
harmony in the visual relationships and transitions between new and older
buildings, new buildings should be made sympathetic to scale, form and
proportion of existing development. This can be done by repeating building
lines and surface treatment and by requiring some uniformity of detail, scale,
proportion, textures, materials, color and building form.
      2.   The use of unusual shapes, color and other characteristics that
cause new buildings to call excessive attention to themselves and create a
jarring disharmony shall be avoided, or reserved for structures of broad public
significance.
      3.   The height and bulk of new buildings shall be related to the
prevailing scale of development to avoid overwhelming or dominating existing
development.
      4.   Building additions should be designed to reflect existing buildings
in scale, materials and color. Facade renovations should include as few
different materials as possible.
      5.   The architectural style of new or redeveloped structures shall be
compatible with the predominant architectural themes of the district.
Contemporary design for new buildings in old neighborhoods and additions to
existing buildings or landscaping should be discouraged if such design is not
compatible with the size, scale, color, material and character of the
neighborhood, building or its environment. Rural, agricultural or mountain type
living designs should be implemented whenever possible.
      6.   Adjacent buildings of different architectural styles shall be made
compatible by such means as materials, rhythm, color, repetition of certain
plant varieties, screens, sight breaks, etc.
      7.   The construction of additions to existing buildings should be
generally discouraged in yards adjoining public streets and should instead be
confined to side and rear yards which are generally out of public view.
      8.   To preserve the continuity prevailing along each block face, the
orientation of the building's principal facade shall complement that of the
majority of buildings in the same block face (either parallel or perpendicular
to the street).
      9.   The open expanse of front lawns or meadows/open spaces and the
quantities of planting within them of new or redeveloped structures shall be
comparable to that of existing structures.
   E.   Building Details:
      1.   Rehabilitation work should not destroy the distinguishing qualities
or character of the property and its environment. The removal or alteration of
architectural features should be held to the minimum, consistent with the
proposed use.
      2.   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
which characterize older structures and often predate the mass production of
building materials, should be treated and/or preserved with sensitivity.
      3.   Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to buildings should
be done in such a manner that if they were to be removed in the future, the
essential form and integrity of the original building would be unimpaired.
   F.   Signs: Signs should complement the architectural style and scale of the
building and should be designed as an integral architectural element of the
building and site to which it principally relates. As an architectural element,
the sign should reflect the period of architecture and be in harmony with
building character and use. It must not interfere with architectural lines and
details. Each sign shall be compatible with signs on adjoining premises and
shall not compete for attention. The number of graphic elements on a sign shall
be held to the minimum needed to convey the sign's major message and shall be
in proportion to the area of the sign face.
   G.   Demolition: Except for building condemnation proceedings for health and
safety reasons, no demolition permit will be issued until plans have been
submitted, reviewed and approved for a replacement structure or appropriate
landscaping. This is to assure that vacant lots are not created in the
district, and to make sure the new structure is compatible with its
surroundings. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-31: TECHNICAL REVIEW:
   A.   Scope Of Regulations: The town council and planning commission, which
advises the town council on zoning matters, have determined that the various
aspects of the permitted and conditional review process, as well as the
infrastructure review and environmental impact review process of sensitive
lands, require certain expertise in dealing with special or unique technical
situations. These situations may be better dealt with through the formation of
a technical review committee made up of experts in the field to review the
permit and make recommendations to the planning commission and/or town council
regarding conditions of approval. The members shall be appointed by the
planning commission, with input of the town council when necessary, and the
members shall act as staff to the planning commission.
   B.   Authority Of Committee; Appeal: The committee may review a project as
directed by the planning commission and submit a certificate of review with
findings and/or concerns to the planning commission prior to their adoption of
conditions to the permit. Any appeal from the committee's decision shall be
reviewed by the planning commission. If necessary, the decision of the
commission may then be appealed to the board of adjustment, and ultimately to
the courts.
   C.   Administration: This committee may be formed on a case by case basis as
the need may arise and may consist of the same members or additional and
replacement members as necessary. The committee may adopt administrative
procedures as appropriate, and the committee derives its authority to meet and
act under this section of this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-32: REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTAL LAND SURVEYS:
Since the town has many existing lots that do not have survey monuments
(markers) on all corners of said lots, it is required that surveys be made to
identify the boundaries on such lots before a building permit can be issued for
new residential buildings or residential remodelings that extend the building
footprint into a yard area. Accessory buildings in rear yards do not require a
survey to be done on such lots. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-3-33: RIGHT TO FARM PROVISIONS 1 :
Since the town is an agricultural community and because the town council places
such a high value on the protection and preservation of agricultural land uses,
the town has adopted the following right to farm provisions of this title:
   A.   Impact Analysis: All subdivisions and master planned developments that:
1) border an agricultural area; or 2) contain within them an agricultural or
irrigation right of way or easement; or 3) will contain an agricultural open
space or preservation, shall have additional requirements imposed upon the
developer in the form of an analysis to be reviewed and implemented as part of
the MPD review process or subdivision process. This impact analysis shall be
used to determine the impact on associated farming and/or livestock operations
affected by the development, and implement remediation and protection designs
in the development to alleviate conflicts with the affected agricultural
operations.
   B.   Applicability: The developer is responsible for the performance of the
analysis with the input and review by the town. The planning commission and
developer shall use the following review guidelines or issues in determining
the impact on farming operations of the development, and will apply appropriate
conditions during the approval process to ensure that the farm or ranch
affected is assured a right to farm without undue burden of residential or
commercial growth and complaints by neighbors. All rights to farm are preserved
to the best ability of the town, taking into consideration practical land use
applications and private property rights and concerns.
   C.   Factors Considered: The following factors shall be used as guidelines
or issues in the preparation and review of the agricultural impact analysis.
Impact solutions may be developed as permit conditions and restrictive
covenants or agreements:
      1.   Protection of irrigation access and maintenance of ditches and
canals.
      2.   Safety and protection of the public from ditches, canals, ponds and
drainage systems.
      3.   Livestock movement corridor protections and safety concerns.
      4.   Fencing safety (i.e., electrical, barbed wire) and design.
      5.   Private property protection issues.
      6.   Hunting protection, access and livestock safety concerns.
      7.   Protection of farm equipment ingress and egress.
      8.   Erosion and soil protection and conservation concerns.
      9.   Drainage of the subdivision and designs to minimize the discharge or
impact on agricultural lands and soils.
      10.   Noxious weeds, pests and pet (dog) controls in the subdivision.
      11.   Provisions, acknowledgments and understandings by new property
owners (including hold harmless agreements, if necessary) that farm work hours
run late and begin early, and that farm operations may contribute to noises and
odors objectionable to some subdivision residents.
      12.   Screening provisions and landscaping designs to reduce noise or
visual impact on surrounding or conflicting land uses.
      13.   Any other provisions or concerns that the planning commission deems
necessary to protect the right to farm on adjoining or appurtenant properties.
(Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  9-10-1B8 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
9-4-0: Scope Of Regulations
9-4-1: Created
9-4-2: Terms And Eligibility Of Members
9-4-3: Absence Deemed Resignation Or Grounds For Removal
9-4-4: Appointment Of Community Members
9-4-5: Powers
9-4-6: Chairperson
9-4-7: Staff
9-4-8: Intent And Purposes Of Planning Commission
9-4-9: Meetings And Hearings
9-4-10: Minutes
9-4-11: Decisions
9-4-12: Quorum Requirement
9-4-13: Voting
9-4-14: Review By Planning Commission
9-4-0: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter describe the planning commission and
its membership, functions and responsibilities in administering and
interpreting the town subdivision and master planned development code. (Ord.,
1-18-2005)
9-4-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created a town planning commission to consist of five (5)
members, plus the chairperson. Members shall be appointed by the mayor, with
the advice and consent of the town council. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-2: TERMS AND ELIGIBILITY OF MEMBERS:
Members of the planning commission shall serve terms of five (5) years. A
member shall be appointed every year in December of the year of the expiration.
The terms shall be staggered so that two (2) members shall be appointed
together in the fifth year. Terms may expire on the last day of the year, but
members on the planning commission shall continue to serve until their
successors are appointed and qualified. The mayor shall appoint a new planning
commission member to fill vacancies that might arise, and such appointments
shall be to the end of the vacating member's term. Members of the planning
commission shall be residents of the town, and shall have resided in the town
for at least ninety (90) days prior to being appointed. Members are deemed to
have resigned when they move their residences outside the town limits. (Ord.,
1-18-2005)
9-4-3: ABSENCE DEEMED RESIGNATION OR GROUNDS FOR REMOVAL:
Any planning commission member who is absent from two (2) consecutive regularly
scheduled meetings, or a total of four (4) regularly scheduled meetings per
calendar year, may be called before the town council and asked to resign or be
removed for cause by the town council. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-4: APPOINTMENT OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS:
Appointments to the planning commission shall be made on a basis which fairly
represents the interests of all residents of the community of the town. (Ord.,
1-18-2005)
9-4-5: POWERS:
The planning commission shall have all necessary powers conferred on planning
commissions pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended,
and such other powers as are conferred on it by the town council. (Ord., 1-18-
2005)
9-4-6: CHAIRPERSON:
The planning commission shall, on or before the last Wednesday in January each
year, elect a chairperson, who shall serve a term of one year, but may be
reelected for any succeeding consecutive terms. A person may not serve more
than four (4) consecutive terms as chairperson of the planning commission. The
chairperson will direct all planning commission meetings and may participate in
any discussions, but shall have no vote. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-7: STAFF:
In order to assist the planning commission in carrying out its duties, the
planning commission may request the assistance of other employees, committees
or agents of the town. The town staff or consultants shall assist the planning
commission with technical matters and will attend planning commission meetings
as well as assist and advise the planning commission when necessary. The
planning commission may appoint a secretary to keep minutes and post agendas of
meetings and/or hearings. The secretary may be paid for services rendered, as
agreed upon by the town council. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-8: INTENT AND PURPOSES OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
The planning commission is intended to act as a nonpolitical, long range
planning body for the town. Review of specific projects shall be limited to
those matters specifically requiring their consideration, and to the monitoring
and reviewing of the decisions of the town staff and/or departments, constantly
making sure that all development decisions in the town conform to the general
plan of the town as adopted and/or revised by the planning commission and town
council. The planning commission shall review those matters designated in this
subdivision and master planned development code and interpret and enforce this
title to the best of their ability. The planning commission may also have joint
meetings with the town council to advise or be advised on development matters
as they may arise from time to time. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-9: MEETINGS AND HEARINGS:
The planning commission shall establish procedures for its own meetings and
hearings governing presentations of projects and public responses, and public
impact or comment on specific projects or general issues. Planning commission
meetings are open to the public and will conform to the state open meetings
act. Notice will be provided for as per section
9-1-6 of this title for hearings and an annual meeting schedule will be posted
and published at least once a year in a newspaper of general circulation in the
town. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-10: MINUTES:
The planning commission shall keep official minutes of its meetings, which
shall be permanently stored with the town recorder and available for public
inspection. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-11: DECISIONS:
All decisions of the planning commission shall be included in the minutes.
Where written findings are required, the findings may be prepared separately,
but shall be incorporated into the minutes. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-12: QUORUM REQUIREMENT:
The planning commission shall not conduct any business at a meeting unless a
quorum is present. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the appointed
members of the planning commission, excluding the chairperson for computation
purposes. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-13: VOTING:
Actions of the planning commission pass by majority vote. A majority is a
simple majority of those members present at the meeting and entitled to vote on
the matter under consideration. The chairperson shall not vote. The
commissioner elected vice chair shall, at all times, be entitled to cast his or
her vote as a member of the commission, including those occasions on which he
or she is acting as chairperson. Voting to remove an item of business from the
consent agenda for ratification of departmental actions shall require an
affirmative vote of four (4) of the members present to pass. Other votes shall
be a simple majority. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-4-14: REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
General planning and review of specific development projects by the planning
commission shall be divided into the following functions:
Town comprehensive planning and zoning review;
Subdivision approval;
Master planned development approval;
Plat approval;
Termination of inactive applications; and
Sensitive lands review.
The scope of review for each of these functions is as follows:
   A.   Town Comprehensive Planning And Zoning Review: The planning commission
shall have the primary responsibility to initiate long range master planning
for the town, including planning for adequate streets, parks, trails and
recreation facilities, long range zoning objectives, and periodic review of
existing plans to amend them or keep them current. The planning commission
shall review proposed annexation to the town and recommend action and zoning on
land to be annexed. The planning commission shall initiate or recommend zone
changes and review the development standards within zones. The planning
commission shall hear all requests for zone changes.
   B.   Subdivision Approval: The planning commission shall review all
applications for subdivisions under the provisions of any applicable town
subdivision codes and regulations, and this title, namely chapter 8 of this
title.
   C.   Master Planned Development Approval:
      1.   Application; Considerations: All proposals for master planned
development approval shall be reviewed by the planning commission. An
application must be filed with the planning commission in a form as described
in chapter 9 of this title. In reviewing requests for small and large scale
master planned development approval, the planning commission shall consider the
overall planning for the proposed project, including:
         a.   Site planning for the project;
         b.   Traffic circulation within the project and on the adjoining
streets, both existing and proposed;
         c.   Land uses within the proposed project area, including the mixture
of commercial and residential;
         d.   Density of development;
         e.   Identification of development parcels within the larger tract,
and the order in which development is proposed or should be permitted to allow
for the orderly and economic expansion of town services and infrastructure;
         f.   Compatibility with surrounding land uses;
         g.   Other pertinent planning and land use issues that are affected by
the project, such as the effects on schools, fire protection, water, sewer and
utility services, drainage, and similar on and off site issues; and geologic or
other natural hazards;
         h.   Compatibility with the general plan adopted by the town;
         i.   Utility capacity;
         j.   Emergency vehicle access;
         k.   Location and amount of off street parking;
         l.   Internal circulation system;
         m.   Fencing, screening and landscaping to separate the use from
adjoining uses;
         n.   Building mass, bulk and orientation, and the location of
buildings on the site;
         o.   Usable open space and open space conservation alternatives;
         p.   Signage and lighting;
         q.   Physical design and compatibility with surrounding structures in
mass, scale, style, design and architectural detailing, and general
architectural theme;
         r.   Noise, vibration, odors, steam, smoke or other mechanical factors
that affect people and property off site;
         s.   Control of delivery and service vehicles, loading and unloading
zones, and screening of trash or recycling pick up or storage areas;
         t.   Expected ownership and management of the project as primary
residences, condominiums, time interval ownership, nightly rental or commercial
tenancies;
         u.   Sensitive lands issues and delineation (if needed) and mitigation
measures if necessary or applicable;
         v.   Right to farm issues and impacts as per section
9-3-33 of this title;
         w.   Impact analysis and market analysis;
         x.   Any other criteria or issues that the planning commission
considers pertinent in dealing with the project.
      2.   Nature Of Approval: Upon review and consideration of the proposal,
the planning commission may approve, disapprove or modify and approve the
request for master planned development approval. The approval process shall
establish the following items:
         a.   Designation of land uses within the project area;
         b.   Designation of identifiable development parcels within the total
project area. These development parcels are not required to be divided or
platted as subdivision lots, but may be designated on maps as a part of the
approval with a final legal description of the parcels to be required at the
time each is developed or sold, leased or otherwise transferred or separated
from the whole tract;
         c.   Designation of the land use or mixture of uses for each
development parcel;
         d.   Designation of density ranges in unit equivalents for each
development parcel identified;
         e.   Designation of the order of development, including concurrency
plans and issues to ensure economical and efficient expansion of town services
and infrastructure;
         f.   Designation of specific conditions to the development of any
parcels which are by their nature more subject to development constraints than
the typical parcel in the proposed development;
         g.   Designation of density transfers from one parcel to another, if
any;
         h.   Whether or not there will be commercial uses on all or some of
the development parcels identified, and if so, the specific parcels that will
include commercial uses;
         i.   The general architectural or design theme and character of the
overall development;
         j.   Adequate protection of right to farm in adjacent agricultural
areas;
         k.   Sensitive lands protection and/or mitigation measures;
         l.   Any other measures established that the planning commission
considers pertinent in approval of the project.
      3.   Length Of Approval: The master planned development approval granted
by the planning commission shall be effective so long as construction is
proceeding in accordance with the approved phasing plan. Approval will lapse
after two (2) years of inaction, unless extended for up to two (2) years by the
planning commission. Zone changes occurring while the approval is in effect
shall not affect the approval. Changes in the master plan requested by the
developer will be reviewed and approved as a revision to the master plan by the
planning commission. A "change" will be defined as any change in concept, unit
type, configuration or number. At that time, the planning commission shall
review the entire MPD, even if only one parcel or phase is involved in the
modification under the regulations in effect at the time of review.
Modification shall act as an extension of the approval.
      4.   Record Of Approval: When a master planned development approval is
granted, the approval shall be noted in a recordable document stating the legal
description of the property involved, and at least the general nature of the
approval. The notice shall direct interested persons to the town to review the
actual master plan. The purpose of the recording is to put prospective
purchasers on notice that the land has been included within a master plan that
has established density ranges and land uses that might be more or less
restrictive to individual parcels than the underlying zoning regulations might
imply.
      5.   Development On Planned Parcels: Development proposals for each
approved development parcel within the master plan development approval is
reviewed by the planning commission, regardless of the size or nature of the
development.
   D.   Ratification Of Departmental Actions: The planning commission shall
review all actions of the community development department and/or director. All
items on the consent agenda shall be passed or denied by a single motion at the
planning commission meeting, unless a motion to remove a specific item is made.
Motions to remove specific items from the consent agenda shall state the
reasons for the removal, referring to specific planning issues or title
sections which the commissioner making the motion does not think have been
satisfactorily resolved or complied with. Motions to remove items from the
consent agenda shall be passed by a majority vote of the planning commission
members present and voting on the issue. When an item is removed from the
consent agenda, it shall not be acted on at the same meeting at which the
removal occurs. The following items may be placed on the consent agenda as the
chairperson may direct:
      1.   Development on approved minor master planned developments;
      2.   Final plat approvals for either of the above, or plat approvals for
condominiums or other projects, and subdivisions;
      3.   Requests for extensions of conditional use approvals, minor master
planned development approvals or master planned development approvals;
      4.   Other items of a performance or ratification nature which the
chairperson directs the department or director to place on the consent agenda
for action.
   E.   Review Of Staff Actions: At any time the "developer" or any nonowner,
as defined in this title, may request that staff actions on a project be
reviewed by the planning commission. The scope of review by the planning
commission shall be the same as the scope of review at the staff level on the
matters at issue.
   F.   Plat Approval: The planning commission shall review all plats to be
recorded affecting land within the town limits or annexations to the town. The
scope of review on plat approval is limited to finding substantial compliance
with the provisions of the state statute on recording of plats, and that all
previously imposed conditions of approval, whether imposed by the staff or the
planning commission, have been satisfied. The plat must also comply with all
the regulations and procedures contained in this title. Upon finding that the
plat is in compliance with the state statute and this title, and that
conditions of approval have been satisfied, the plat must be approved. No new
conditions may be imposed at the plat approval stage. The town engineer, town
attorney, town recorder, town council and mayor shall all review the plat as
required by statute before recording. Plats may be approved on the consent
agenda.
   G.   Inactive Projects: See section
9-1-17, "Termination Of Projects", of this title.
   H.   Sensitive Lands Review: Any project falling within the sensitive lands
overlay zone or containing designated sensitive lands, may be subject to
additional requirements and regulations as outlined in the sensitive lands
regulations contained in chapter 10 of this title.
   I.   Right To Farm Review: Any project falling within the purview or scope
of section
9-3-33 of this title, shall be subject to additional requirements and
regulations as outlined in the right to farm provision of that section of this
title. Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code; Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
CHAPTER 5
APPEAL AUTHORITY AND VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-5-0: Scope Of Regulations
9-5-1: Created
9-5-2: Term Of Office
9-5-3: Absence Deemed Resignation Or Grounds For Removal
9-5-4: Organization
9-5-5: Meetings
9-5-6: Hearings And Scope Of Review
9-5-7: Variances
9-5-8: Application For Variance Review
9-5-9: Notice And Scheduling Of A Hearing
9-5-10: Persons Entitled To Appear
9-5-11: Decision
9-5-12: Vote Necessary For Reversal
9-5-13: Burden Of Proof And Liberal Construction
9-5-14: Judicial Review Of Board Decision
9-5-0: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter describe the appeal authority which
is sometimes referred to as the board of adjustment elsewhere in this title and
its composition, function and responsibilities as defined in state law, Utah
Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, and the town subdivision and master
planned development code. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-1: CREATED:
In order to avail the town of the powers provided in Utah Code Annotated title
10, chapter 9a, as amended, there is hereby created a land use appeal
authority, which may be a panel consisting of three (3) members with up to two
(2) nonvoting alternates to vote when a regular member is absent, or the town
council. Members shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent
of the town council. The town council may fix per diem compensation for the
members of the land use appeal authority panel by resolution, based on
necessary and reasonable expenses for meetings actually attended. All members
of the land use appeal authority panel shall reside within the town limits, and
are deemed to have resigned if they move their residence from the town limits.
In no event shall a member of the land use appeal authority vote on, or decide,
an issue on appeal for which they were the land use authority, or a member of
the land use authority. There may be multiple land use appeal authorities with
specified or general authority to hear different types of issues. (Ord., 1-18-
2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
Each member of the land use appeal authority panel shall serve for a term of
one (1) year, or until a successor is appointed and qualified; provided, that
the term of the members of the first authority so appointed shall be such that
the term of one member shall expire each year. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment for the balance of the unexpired term.
(Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-3: ABSENCE DEEMED RESIGNATION OR GROUNDS FOR REMOVAL:
Any land use appeal authority panel member who is absent for two (2)
consecutive regularly scheduled meetings, or a total of four (4) regularly
scheduled meetings per year, may be called before the town council and asked to
resign or be removed for cause by the town council. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord.
20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairperson: The land use appeal authority panel shall, when
applicable, elect a chairperson and may adopt such rules for its own
proceedings as are deemed necessary.
   B.   Quorum: No business shall be conducted by a land use appeal authority
panel unless at least three (3) members of the panel, not counting the
alternates, are present. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-5: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the land use appeal authority panel shall be held at the call of
the chairperson and at such other times as the land use appeal authority may
determine. The chairperson of the land use appeal authority panel, or in the
chairperson’s absence, the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel
the attendance of witnesses at such meetings, and all meetings shall be open to
the public. The land use appeal authority shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the roll call of votes upon all questions or, if a member is absent or
fails to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations
and other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the
town recorder and shall be public record. All meetings and hearings will be
posted and noticed (in the case of hearings) as per section
9-1-6 of this title. An annual schedule of meetings will be published at least
once annually, in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. The schedule
may state that some meetings may be canceled upon twenty four (24) hours of
posted notice if the meeting is not necessary or required. (Ord., 1-18-2005;
amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-6: HEARINGS AND SCOPE OF REVIEW:
   A.   The scope of review for factual matters on appeal of decisions by the
land use authority shall be on the record created before the land use authority
and not de novo. The appeal authority shall:
      1.   Determine whether the record on appeal includes substantial evidence
for each essential finding or fact.
      2.   Determine the correctness of the land use authority's interpretation
and application of the plain meaning of the land use regulations.
      3.   Interpret and apply a land use regulation to favor a land use
application unless the land use regulation plainly restricts the land use
application.
   B.   See Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-707. The land use appeal
authority is created to hear four (4) classifications of cases as follows:
      1.   Variance Applications: Whenever any application or permit has been
stayed or denied by the planning commission on the basis that approval of the
requested permit or application would violate the provisions of this title
relating to setback, building height, side yard, lot size, site requirements,
parking requirements, or some similar provision of this title that has the
effect of depriving the applicant of the reasonable use of his property when
others similarly situated are entitled to make such use of their property, the
land use appeal authority may hear the matter, and grant a variance from the
strict enforcement of this title. A variance is defined in greater detail in
Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-702, as amended.
      2.   Modifications Of Nonconforming Uses: The land use appeal authority
shall have the power to rule on all requests for enlargements, modifications,
or changes in the character of any nonconforming use, and to have hearings to
determine whether the use in question is in fact a nonconforming use as opposed
to a violation of this title or an allowable use within the zone. Nonconforming
uses are further addressed in section
9-1-23 of this title.
      3.   Appeals: The land use appeal authority shall hear and decide appeals
of the land use authority as further described in section
9-1-16 of this title where it is alleged that there is an error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the land use authority including
the planning commission in the enforcement of Utah Code Annotated title 10,
chapter 9a, as amended, or any town ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
      4.   Special Exceptions: The land use authority may hear applications for
special exceptions to the terms of this title which apply to variances,
modifications of nonconforming uses, appeals and other matters upon which the
land use authority is required to pass judgment under this title.
      5.   The land use appeal authority shall not hear an appeal of the land
use authority administering or interpreting any geologic hazard ordinance of
the town which shall be heard by a panel of experts pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated section 10-9a-703(2). (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-7: VARIANCES:
Variances from the provisions of this title may be granted by the land use
appeal authority as per Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-702, as amended,
whenever a strict or literal application of the provisions of this title would
create a hardship on the owner of the subject property that is unique to that
property. Because of the agricultural development of the town over a long
period of time before development codes were enacted by Box Elder County or the
town, which has resulted in a number of irregular lots, encroachment by public
streets and facilities, and the access problems inherent in the area because of
these misplaced streets and steep grades, watercourses and other geographic
problems inherent in a rural agricultural environment, the land use appeal
authority may exercise broad discretion in acting on variances to assure the
public and the owners of property on which variances are requested that
substantial equity results from land use appeal authority actions (including
equality of past land use appeal authority rulings). Variances shall be granted
when the strict application of this title would:
   A.   Deprive the owner of the property in question of the substantial
property rights and privileges available to others owning similar property
within the same zone; and
   B.   The deprivation results from conditions on the property, including
irregular lot size, lot shape, access, presence of easements or rights of way
across the property, including nonplatted but existing public streets, or
similar factors not of general application to other properties in the zone and
not from conditions created by the applicant; and
   C.   The granting of the variance would not be detrimental to the public
health and safety or contrary to the general plan of the town, and strict
adherence to the letter of this title will cause hardships, the imposition of
which is not necessary in order to carry out the general purpose of the plan.
(Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-8: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE REVIEW:
A letter of application for variance review must be filed with the town clerk
or town recorder, and the required fee paid in advance. The application shall
state the nature of the hardship and the nature of the variance requested. If
the request for a variance is a result of a denial of any building permit
approval, the application shall so state, and all documents on file concerning
the matter shall be forwarded to the board for review as a part of the request.
The applicant or the town may present any information as might be reasonably
required by the land use appeal authority in evaluating the request. (Ord., 1-
18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-9: NOTICE AND SCHEDULING OF A HEARING:
The land use appeal authority shall, upon receipt of the letter of application
for a variance, or an appeal from the land use authority, schedule a date for
hearing on the matter. The hearing date shall be no less than fifteen (15)
days, nor more than thirty (30) days from the date of application or appeal.
Notice shall be given to adjoining landowners in the manner described in
chapter 1 of this title, and in addition, notice of hearing shall be published
at least once prior to the date of the hearing in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-10: PERSONS ENTITLED TO APPEAR:
At the hearing on any matter before the land use appeal authority, any person
aggrieved or interested in the matter may appear in person or through his
attorney to provide public comment on the matter. The applicant shall have the
right to respond to testimony offered in opposition to the application. (Ord.,
1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-11: DECISION:
In exercising the above mentioned powers, the land use appeal authority may, in
conformity with the provisions of this title, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the official
or land use appeal authority from whom the appeal is taken. All decisions of
the land use appeal authority shall be in writing which explains the basis of
the decision. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-12: VOTE NECESSARY FOR REVERSAL:
The concurring vote of the majority of the quorum convened of the land use
appeal authority panel, or a written ruling from the town council, shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement or determination of any such
administrative official or board, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance or to effect
any variation in such ordinance. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-13: BURDEN OF PROOF AND LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
The land use appeal authority is a quasi-judicial body. Because of the unique
factors in the platting and recording of the older portions of the town, and
the fact that many times existing public streets encroach on platted lots, or
that platted lots may be on or adjacent to platted but unopened streets or
other agricultural rights of way, the powers of the land use appeal authority
shall be liberally construed to grant the flexibility reasonably necessary to
enable the owners of property within the affected parts of the town reasonable
opportunities to develop that property to the same extent as others similarly
situated within the zone, but without the unique site constraints affecting the
applicant's site under the standards in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-702.
The appellant has the burden of proving the land use authority erred. (Ord., 1-
18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-5-14: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF BOARD DECISION:
The town or any person aggrieved by any decision of the land use appeal
authority may have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in the
district court in Box Elder County, provided petition for such relief is
presented to the court within thirty (30) days after the land use authority
issues its written decision. The town council may not override a decision
properly made by the land use appeal authority. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-
02, 3-17-2020)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-6-0: Scope Of Regulations
9-6-1: Administration And Enforcement Officials
9-6-2: Zoning And Building Permits
9-6-3: Occupancy Permit
9-6-4: Inspection
9-6-5: Site Plan Required
9-6-6: Time Limit Of Plan Approval
9-6-7: Penalty And Enforcement
9-6-8: Violations
9-6-0: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
This chapter details zoning enforcement guidelines, as well as descriptions of
some of the main duties of the planning commission and building official.
Building and occupancy permits, inspections and enforcement issues, as well as
violations of this title, are described. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-6-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Planning Commission: The provisions of this title shall be administered
by the planning commission acting under the supervision of the mayor. The
planning commission shall, when deemed appropriate, recommend legal action to
the town council in order to enforce this title or other land use related
ordinances or regulations. The planning commission, under the supervision of
the mayor, shall determine when violations exist, when a development is in
substantial compliance with this title, or when strict compliance should be
demanded, or other enforcement actions taken. The planning commission shall
also advise the town and developers as to application, submission, compliance
and procedural matters as related to this title, as well as the interpretation
of these code provisions to the best of their ability.
   B.   Building Official: The building official shall operate under the
direction of the mayor as well, and is charged with issuance, revocation and
administration of building and occupancy permits as per this title and
international building codes in effect. The building official is also in charge
of building or use inspections, and all building inspectors shall work under
his/her direction. Applications for permitted uses shall be evaluated by the
building official to determine if approval can be given.
   C.   Administration Generally: Both the planning commission and the building
official shall work with and advise the town council on all zoning, land use or
building matters as applied for and acted on by the town.
   D.   Enforcement: The failure of any person to properly interpret or apply
this title or any provision of it shall not operate to waive or estop the town
from subsequent enforcement action. Permits issued in violation of this title
shall have no force or effect and persons knowingly or negligently building or
subdividing under improperly issued permits or approvals do so at their own
risk. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-6-2: ZONING AND BUILDING PERMITS:
Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure, or
any part thereof, as provided for or as restricted in this title and the
international building code, shall not be commenced except upon clearance by
the planning commission for compliance with this code and issuance of a
building permit by the building official. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-6-3: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
Land, buildings or premises in any district shall hereafter be used only for a
purpose permitted in such a district and in accordance with the appropriate
regulations. A permit of occupancy shall be issued by the building official to
the extent that the use, building or premises conforms to provisions of this
and all related ordinances, regulations and requirements prior to occupancy for
any building erected, enlarged or altered structurally for the occupancy or use
of any land. Such a permit is needed whenever use or character of any building
or land is to be changed. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-6-4: INSPECTION:
The town, through its designated officials, shall, upon presentation of
evidence of his/her authority, have the right of access to any premises at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of inspecting all buildings and structures
during the course of their construction, modification or repair, and to inspect
land uses to determine compliance with the provisions of this code. (Ord., 1-
18-2005)
9-6-5: SITE PLAN REQUIRED:
Apart from any project or building plans required to be submitted to the town,
a detailed site plan, drawn to scale, shall be filed with the building
official, as part of any application for a building permit for a permitted use.
The site plan shall show where pertinent:
   A.   North arrow.
   B.   Lot lines and their dimensions.
   C.   Adjacent streets, roads, rights of way, ditches, easements and land
uses.
   D.   Location of all existing structures on the subject property (completely
dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, fences, etc.).
   E.   Existing utility line locations and sizes.
   F.   Existing and proposed grading, drainage and landscaping plans.
   G.   Location of proposed construction with setbacks and improvements,
including location of all pertinent landscape elements, retaining walls,
drainage works and signs.
   H.   Motor vehicle access, including individual parking stalls, circulation
patterns, curb, gutter and sidewalk, and trail location.
   I.   Necessary explanatory notes.
   J.   Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner.
   K.   Other information which may be requested by the building official, town
staff or in this code. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-6-6: TIME LIMIT OF PLAN APPROVAL:
Unless there is actual construction and a permit issued within a period of one
hundred eighty (180) days from the date of plan approval by the planning
commission and/or building official, the plan approval for a permitted use
shall expire. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-6-7: PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this code may be enforced by either civil or criminal actions
in courts of appropriate and competent jurisdiction. Suit may be brought by the
town, or by affected property owners in the manner set forth below:
   A.   Criminal Citations: The building official and other designated town
officials may, when there is probable cause to believe that construction has
occurred in violation of this code, issue a citation and swear out criminal
complaints against the appropriate individuals and business entities. Specific
approval from the town council for such misdemeanor citations is not required.
   B.   Civil Actions: The town, with the authorization of the town council,
may bring actions for civil and equitable relief, including enjoining specific
land uses and affirmative injunctions. The building official, planning
commission and other designated town officials may recommend such actions at
any time to the town council; provided, that no civil proceeding shall be
commenced without the specific authorization of the town council.
   C.   Third Party Actions: Individuals affected by zoning violations within
the town shall have the right to maintain private actions to enforce the code
without joining the town as a party. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-6-8: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this code are class C misdemeanors, and are subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The officers and directors of a corporation shall be
responsible for the acts committed by that corporation. Corporations and
individuals shall be responsible for the acts of their agents committed in
violation of this code if they had knowledge of the act committed, and the
owner of the property is presumed to have knowledge of the uses of that
property and improvements made to it. Each day that a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ZONE DISTRICTS AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Scope Of Regulations
9-7-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, including the articles following,
detail each of the zone districts and describe the various uses, both permitted
and conditional, as well as uses prohibited, in each zone. Overlay zones are
also detailed in the articles following this chapter. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Purpose, Scope And Objectives
9-7A-2: Permitted Uses And Conditional Uses
9-7A-3: Lot Area And Density (Subzones)
9-7A-4: Density Of Residential Housing Developments
9-7A-5: Zone Depth Along Roads And Highways
9-7A-6: Prior Created Lots Of Record
9-7A-7: Lot Area Per Dwelling
9-7A-8: Yard Requirements For Dwellings And Main Buildings
9-7A-9: Accessory Buildings
9-7A-10: Projections Into Yards
9-7A-11: Building Height
9-7A-12: Parking And Access
9-7A-13: Site Plan Approval
9-7A-14: Other Requirements
9-7A-1: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES:
The agricultural zone, also known and referred to as the A1 zone, is
established to provide areas where the growing of crops and the raising of
livestock can be encouraged and supported within the town. The character and
essence of the town is the A1 zone and all efforts to protect this zone should
be encouraged. The A1 zone is intended to protect agricultural uses from
encroachment of urban development until such time as residential, commercial or
industrial uses in such areas become necessary and desirable by the town. Uses
permitted in the A1 zone, in addition to agricultural uses, must be incidental
thereto and should not change the basic agricultural character of the zone.
Clustering of homes is encouraged to maximize the amount of open and usable
agricultural space. Conversion of the agricultural zone to zones allowing urban
uses should be accomplished only in an orderly and careful manner following the
general plan with no "leap frog" encroachments of such urban or semiurban uses
or developments into the surrounding agricultural areas. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-2: PERMITTED USES AND CONDITIONAL USES:
Those general uses or categories of uses listed in appendix A to this title may
be conducted in the agricultural zone as limited herein. Uses are listed as
designated in this title. Detailed permitted uses and conditional uses as well
as prohibited uses are listed in the zone district land use table in appendix A
to this title, which is on file in the town office. Activities normally
considered business or commercial uses or activities listed in said appendix A
as permitted or conditional uses in agricultural zones are limited to home
occupations in all cases. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-3: LOT AREA AND DENSITY (SUBZONES):
The minimum area of any single lot or parcel or the density as related to homes
per acre (whichever is used) of land in the agricultural zone shall be as
indicated by the subzone used in conjunction with the agricultural zone
designation. Subzones are designated by appending a number to the agricultural
zone symbol. Such a suffix number shall be the minimum lot area for the subzone
stated in acres as listed below:
 
A1 1 home per 1 acre (or) 1 home/acre
 
(Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-4: DENSITY OF RESIDENTIAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS:
To encourage the preservation of agricultural open space, enhance its
profitability, minimize the cost of public services, reduce yard sizes to
conserve water and improve landscaping quality and to discourage evenly spaced
development running along public streets, clustered residential housing may be
developed on parcels or combined lots in an approved subdivision that is a
master planned development.
   A.   Density In Developments: Clustering will only be allowed if the total
density of housing in the proposed development does not exceed the density of
homes per acre without clustering. The unit per acre density may still qualify
for bonus adjustment in a master planned development. If the development spans
several different types of zones or subzones, the total residential density per
acre of the project shall not exceed the total of all residential densities
combined in each zone or subzone allowed by this title. Or in other words, the
total density shall equal the sum of the individual densities of each zone.
Minimum lot sizes per residential unit for each zone must also be adhered to,
even if this results in different sizes of residential lots in the same
development.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size And Open Space: When clustering units in the
agricultural zone, the minimum lot size for any residential unit shall not be
less than one-fourth (1/4) acre. All other acreage beyond that necessary to
satisfy the minimum lot sizes for the residential development will be declared
as permanent open space for agricultural type uses on the subdivision or MPD
plat and appropriate deed restrictions or conservation easements in a form
acceptable to the town shall be provided by the owner.
   C.   Lot Frontage: All lots developed for residential use in the
agricultural zone shall abut along the right of way line of a public street or
private street (if allowed by the planning commission) for a minimum distance
of one hundred sixty five feet (165'), unless it is a clustered master planned
development, then the minimum distance is seventy five feet (75'). (Ord. 13-01,
9-3-2013)
9-7A-5: ZONE DEPTH ALONG ROADS AND HIGHWAYS:
If an agricultural zone borders or runs along a public or private street with a
different zone or subzone of lower residential density or larger minimum lot
size placed behind it, a second appended code may be added to that zone or
subzone to designate the depth of the zone in feet from the right of way line
of the street. If no depth is specified, the zone will be assumed to border a
property line, road, major geographic feature or a section, quarter section or
quarter-quarter section line, or other legally surveyed boundary. This depth
code may only be used in some instances on the official zone map to help
clarify certain zone district boundaries. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-6: PRIOR CREATED LOTS OF RECORD:
Lots or parcels of land which legally existed or were created by preliminary or
final plat approval prior to the application of this zone shall not be denied a
building permit solely for reason of nonconformance with the parcel or density
requirements of this article and are declared a nonconforming use under this
title. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-7: LOT AREA PER DWELLING:
Not more than one primary single-family dwelling may be placed upon a lot or
parcel of land in the A zone. Single caretaker facilities or single secondary
accessory apartments may be allowed. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-8: YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS AND MAIN BUILDINGS:
The following yard setback requirements shall apply on lots in the agricultural
zone:
   A.   Front Yard; Interior And Corner Lots: The minimum front yard for all
buildings in the agricultural zone must be thirty feet (30'). All buildings
shall maintain a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') on any portion of the lot
that is adjacent to a cul-de-sac.
   B.   Side Yards; Interior Lots: The minimum side yard for all buildings on
interior lots in the agricultural zone shall be eight feet (8').
   C.   Side Yards; Corner Lots: The minimum side yards for all buildings on
corner lots in the agricultural zone shall be eight feet (8') on the side
adjoining another lot and thirty feet (30') on the side adjoining the street
(for corner lots).
   D.   Rear Yard; Interior And Corner Lots: The minimum rear yard for all
buildings in the agricultural zone shall be twenty five feet (25').
   E.   Easements: No dwelling or main building shall be located within a
platted easement area of any kind. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings may be located on lots in the agricultural zone according
to the following setback requirements:
   A.   Side Yard: An accessory building may be located in a side yard no
closer than eight feet (8') from the side property line and no closer than six
feet (6') from the dwelling or main building, except that an accessory building
may not be located within thirty feet (30') of the property line adjacent to
the street.
   B.   Rear Yard: An accessory building may be located in a rear yard no
closer than six feet (6') from the dwelling or main building and no closer than
three feet (3') from the side or rear property lines. An accessory building may
be located at or near the side or rear property lines; provided, that all
requirements of the international building code are met and that the accessory
building is equipped with facilities for the discharge of all roof drainage
onto the lot upon which said accessory building is located.
   C.   Additional Setback Requirement: In addition to the foregoing side yard
requirements, accessory buildings exceeding ten feet (10') in height shall be
located so that the horizontal distance measured from the property line to any
point of the structure shall be thirty percent (30%) or more of the height of
the structure at that point (horizontal distance/height = 30 percent or more).
   D.   Accessory Buildings For Animals: Accessory buildings used for the
housing or shelter of animals shall be located a minimum distance of forty feet
(40') from any dwelling.
   E.   Easements: No permanent accessory building shall be located within a
platted easement area of any kind.
   F.   Building Permit: A building permit is not required if an accessory
building meets the following criteria:
      1.   Building footprint is three hundred (300) square feet or less.
      2.   No power, water, gas or septic utilities are included in the
building.
      3.   Building height is fifteen feet (15') or less. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-
2013; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-7A-10: PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS:
The following structures may be erected on or projected into any required yard:
   A.   Fences, Walls: Fences and walls in conformance with this title or other
town codes or ordinances.
   B.   Landscaping: Landscape elements, including trees, shrubs, agricultural
crops and other plants.
   C.   Utility: Necessary appurtenances for utility service. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-
2013)
9-7A-11: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No lot or parcel of land in the agricultural zone shall have a building which
exceeds a height of thirty feet (30'), except that silos, windmills and other
agricultural related accessory structures not used for human occupancy may
exceed thirty feet (30') in height. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-
17-2020)
9-7A-12: PARKING AND ACCESS:
Each lot or parcel on which a single-family dwelling is located shall have on
the same lot or parcel a minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces. Said
spaces shall be paved with asphaltic cement or concrete and shall be provided
with a paved or graveled access from a public street. Required parking spaces
shall not be provided within a required front yard, including driveways. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-13: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
The subdivision and master planned development code and international building
code shall be satisfied prior to the issuance of a building permit. A site plan
shall be submitted to and approved by the town prior to any such permit
issuance. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7A-14: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fences, Walls: Notwithstanding the setback, yard and height
requirements for structures otherwise stated in this title, fences, walls,
hedges, shrubs, berms and other unroofed landscaping appurtenances may be
located on the property line, or adjacent to the sidewalk, or in the yard
between the building setback line and the property line or sidewalk; provided,
that the maximum height above natural grade for a fence, wall, hedge, berm or
similar unroofed landscape feature is:
      1.   Four feet (4') where such fence or other feature is located in front
of the front building line of the dwelling or main building.
      2.   Six feet (6') where such fence or other feature is located behind
the front building line of the dwelling or main building.
      3.   Three feet (3') where such fence or other feature is sight obscuring
and is located within the clear vision area of a corner lot. Lawn trees are
permitted in this area which are pruned to a height of at least seven feet (7')
above the established grade to the curb so as not to obstruct clear view of
motorists. Shrubs are permitted in this area which are trimmed to a height of
three feet (3') or less.
      4.   Four feet (4') where such fence or other feature is sight obscuring
and is located in an area that is within ten feet (10') of a driveway and
twenty feet (20') of a street.
   B.   Temporary Mobile Homes: A temporary conditional use permit may be
issued for a temporary mobile home which may be located on the rear portion of
a lot in the agricultural zone during the construction of a permanent dwelling
on said lot for not longer than one year. The Planning Commission may require
that a bond or other guarantee be posted to ensure that the temporary mobile
home is removed by the expiration of the permit.
   C.   Trash And Waste Storage: No trash, used materials or wrecked or
nonoperational or abandoned vehicles or equipment shall be stored in an open
area or yard. All such materials must be screened from public streets and
adjacent property located within the A zones with an opaque fence or wall, or
must be stored within an enclosed building. All trash storage areas shall be
screened and/or hidden from the public or adjoining residential area view by
appropriate fencing and/or landscaping methods and placed in a rear area of the
main building, if possible. No hazardous materials or chemicals or oils/
solvents shall be stored in areas that do not meet Health Department
regulations or are accessible to the public. Trash storage plans must be
presented to the Planning Commission for approval, prior to issuance of a
building permit. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
   D.   Location Of Boats, Trailers, Campers, Motor Homes And Vehicles: Boats,
trailers, campers, motor homes and vehicles may not be stored in the front yard
of any lot or in the street side yard of a corner lot in excess of twenty four
(24) hours, except that a vehicle owned by a guest of the resident may be
stored in a required front yard or street side yard (on corner lots) for up to
seven (7) consecutive days per calendar quarter. A motor home, RV or vehicle
may be occupied by a resident or guests of the resident for up to seven (7)
consecutive days per calendar quarter. (Ord. 18-01, 9-18-2018)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENTIAL ZONES
SECTION:
9-7B-1: Purpose, Scope And Objectives
9-7B-2: Permitted Uses
9-7B-3: Lot Area And Density (Subzones)
9-7B-4: Density Of Residential Housing Developments; Sewer Services
9-7B-5: Zone Depth Along Roads And Highways
9-7B-6: Prior Created Lots Of Record
9-7B-7: Panhandle Lots
9-7B-8: Lot Area Per Dwelling
9-7B-9: Yard Requirements For Dwellings And Main Buildings
9-7B-10: Accessory Buildings
9-7B-11: Projections Into Yards
9-7B-12: Height And Building Location
9-7B-13: Permissible Lot Coverage
9-7B-14: Parking And Access
9-7B-15: Site Plan Approval
9-7B-16: Other Requirements
9-7B-1: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES:
The following residential zones are hereby created under this title and may be
collectively referred to as the residential zones or the R zones:
   A.   R1 Zone: The single-family residential zone, herein referred to as the
R1 zone, is established to provide areas for the encouragement and promotion of
an environment for family life by providing for the establishment of one-family
detached dwellings on individual lots and associated uses as hereinafter
defined. This zone is characterized by attractively landscaped or naturally
rural lots with lawns and shrubs and natural open spaces. The minimum lot size
is nine thousand nine hundred (9,900) square feet, with a depth of one hundred
thirty two feet (132').
   B.   R2 Zone: The two-family residential zone, herein referred to as the R2
zone, is established to provide a residential environment within the town which
is characterized by attractively landscaped single-family and two-family
residential lots and structures and associated uses as hereinafter defined.
This zone is intended to have a residential density the same as the R1 zone,
and to maintain a residential character comparable to that of a single-family
residential area with large landscaped front yards. The minimum lot size for
this zone is nineteen thousand eight hundred (19,800) square feet and a depth
of one hundred thirty two feet (132'). The R2 zone overlays the R1 zone. Each
two-family residential unit shall be no closer than five (5) blocks to another
two-family residential unit.
   C.   DZ Zone: The development zone, herein referred to as the DZ zone, is
established to provide areas where detached single-family dwellings and
associated uses, as hereinafter defined, may be harmoniously integrated with
flexible lot developments. This zone is characterized by open land that is
interspersed with residential dwellings with attractively landscaped lots.
(Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Those general uses or categories of uses listed in appendix A to this title may
be conducted in the residential zone. Uses are listed as designated in this
title. Detailed permitted uses as well as prohibited uses are listed in the
zone district land use table in appendix A to this title, which is on file in
the town office. All permitted uses are limited to home occupations. (Ord. 13-
01, 9-3-2013; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-7B-3: LOT AREA AND DENSITY (SUBZONES):
The minimum area of any single lot or parcel, or the density as related to
homes per acre (whichever is used) of land in residential zones, shall be as
indicated by the subzone used in conjunction with the R1, R2 or DZ designation.
Subzones are designated by appending a number to the residential zone symbol.
Such a number shall be the minimum lot area for the subzone stated in acreage.
The following is a list of the current residential zones and densities, if
subdivision master planned development (MPD) clustering is used, that is
currently allowed:
 
Zone Lot Size                                       Density
R1   1 home per 9,900 square feet                or 4 homes/acre
R2   1 home per 19,800 square feet               or 2 homes/acre
DZ   To be determined by the planning commission    
 
(Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-4: DENSITY OF RESIDENTIAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS; SEWER SERVICES:
To encourage the preservation of agricultural and natural open space, enhance
its profitability, minimize the cost of public services, reduce yard sizes to
conserve water and improve landscaping quality, and to discourage evenly spaced
development running along public streets, clustered residential housing may be
developed on parcels or combined lots in an approved subdivision that is a
master planned development.
   A.   Density In Developments: Clustering will only be allowed if the total
density of housing in the proposed development does not exceed the density of
homes per acre without clustering. The unit per acre density may still qualify
for bonus adjustment in a master planned development if the development spans
several different types of zones or subzones. The total residential density per
acre of the project shall not exceed the total of all residential densities
combined in each zone or subzone allowed by this title. Or in other words, the
total density shall equal the sum of the individual densities of each zone.
Minimum lot sizes per residential unit for each zone must also be adhered to,
even if this results in different sizes of residential lots in the same
development.
   B.   Minimum Lot Sizes And Open Space: When clustering units in the
residential zones, the minimum lot size for any residential unit shall not be
less than one-fourth (1/4) acre. All other acreage beyond that necessary to
satisfy the minimum lot sizes for the residential development will be declared
as permanent open space for preservation, recreational or agricultural type
uses on the subdivision or MPD plat, and appropriate deed restrictions or
conservation easements in a form acceptable to the town shall be provided by
the owner.
   C.   Lot Frontage And Sewer Service: Each lot or parcel of land located in
residential zones shall abut along the right of way line of a public street or
private street (if allowed by the planning commission) for a minimum distance
of seventy five feet (75'). If the lot is one-half (1/2) acre or less in
density and is not served by a public sewer system, the minimum distance is one
hundred thirty two feet (132'). (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-5: ZONE DEPTH ALONG ROADS AND HIGHWAYS:
If a residential zone borders or runs along a public or private street with a
different zone or subzone of lower residential density or larger minimum lot
size placed behind it, a second appended code may be added to that zone or
subzone to designate the depth of the zone in feet from the right of way line
of the street. If no depth is specified, the zone will be assumed to border a
property line, road, major geographic feature or a section, quarter section or
quarter-quarter section line, or other legally surveyed boundary. This depth
code may only be used in some instances on the official zone map to help
clarify certain zone district boundaries. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-6: PRIOR CREATED LOTS OF RECORD:
Lots or parcels of land which legally existed or were created by a preliminary
or final plat approval prior to the application of this zone shall not be
denied a building permit solely for reason of nonconformance with the parcel
requirements of this article and are declared a nonconforming use under this
title. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-7: PANHANDLE LOTS:
Panhandle lots are not permitted. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-
2020)
9-7B-8: LOT AREA PER DWELLING:
Not more than one single-family dwelling may be placed on a lot or parcel in
the residential zones, except in the R2 zone, which allows one two-family
dwelling on a lot or parcel, and the DZ zone, which allows two (2) two-family
dwellings per ten (10) acres according to this article and must be a master
planned development as regulated by this title. Single caretaker facilities or
single secondary accessory apartments may be allowed (as detailed in section
9-7B-10 of this article. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-9: YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS AND MAIN BUILDINGS:
The following yard setback requirements shall apply on all lots in residential
zones:
   A.   Front Yard; Interior And Corner Lots: The minimum front yard setback
for all buildings in residential zones shall be thirty feet (30'). All
buildings shall have a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') on any portion of
the lot that is adjacent to a cul-de-sac.
   B.   Side Yards; Interior Lots: The minimum side yard for all buildings on
interior lots in residential zones (except in multi-family residential
developments) shall be eight feet (8').
   C.   Side Yards; Corner Lots: The minimum side yards for all buildings on
corner lots in residential zones (except in multi-family residential
developments) shall be eight feet (8') on the side adjoining another lot and
thirty feet (30') on the side adjoining the street (for corner lots).
   D.   Rear Yard; Interior And Corner Lots: The minimum rear yard for all
buildings in residential zones (except in multi- family residential
developments) shall be twenty five feet (25'); except, that on corner lots, the
rear yard may be reduced to a minimum of ten feet (10').
   E.   Easements: No dwelling or main building shall be located within a
platted easement area of any kind. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-10: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings such as garages and sheds may be located on lots in
residential zones according to the following requirements, but only in
conjunction with an existing dwelling or main building on the same lot:
   A.   Side Yards: An accessory building shall be located in a side yard no
closer than eight feet (8') from the side property line and no closer than six
feet (6') from the dwelling or main building; except, that an accessory
building may not be located within thirty feet (30') of the property line
adjacent to the street.
   B.   Rear Yard: An accessory building may be located in a rear yard no
closer than six feet (6') from the dwelling or main building and not closer
than three feet (3') from the side or rear property lines. An accessory
building may be located at or near the side or rear property lines; provided,
that all requirements of the international building code are met and that the
accessory building is equipped with facilities for the discharge of all roof
drainage onto the lot upon which said accessory building is located.
   C.   Additional Setback Requirement: In addition to the foregoing side yard
requirements, accessory buildings exceeding ten feet (10') in height shall be
located so that the horizontal distance measured from the property line to any
point of the structure shall be thirty percent (30%) or more of the height of
the structure at that point (horizontal distance/height = 30% or more).
   D.   Accessory Buildings For Animals: Accessory buildings used for the
housing or shelter of animals shall be located a minimum distance of forty feet
(40') from any dwelling.
   E.   Easements: No permanent accessory building shall be located within a
platted easement area of any kind.
   F.   Building Permit: A building permit is not required if an accessory
building meets the following criteria:
      1.   Building footprint is three hundred (300) square feet or less.
      2.   No power, water, gas or septic utilities are included in the
building.
      3.   Building height is fifteen feet (15') or less. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-
2013; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-7B-11: PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS:
   A.   The following structures may be erected on or projected into any
required yard:
      1.   Fences and walls in conformance with this title and other town codes
or ordinances;
      2.   Landscape elements, including trees, shrubs, agricultural crops and
other plants;
      3.   Necessary appurtenances for utility service.
   B.   The structures listed below may project into a minimum front or rear
yard not more than four feet (4') and into a minimum side yard not more than
two feet (2'). See the supplemental regulations in chapter 3 of this title for
more detailed regulations:
      1.   Cornices, eaves, belt courses, sills, buttresses or other similar
architectural features;
      2.   Fireplace structures and bays; provided, that they are not wider
than eight feet (8'), measured generally parallel to the wall of which they are
a part;
      3.   Stairways, balconies, door stoops, decks, steps, fire escapes,
awnings, porches and patio covers;
      4.   Planting boxes not exceeding twenty four inches (24") in height.
(Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-12: HEIGHT AND BUILDING LOCATION:
No lot or parcel of land in the residential zones shall have a building which
exceeds a height of thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-13: PERMISSIBLE LOT COVERAGE:
In the residential zones, the area of the lot or parcel of land covered by
buildings and structures shall not exceed fifty percent (50%), unless waived by
the board of adjustment or is part of an MPD and is subject to the conditions
of the MPD. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-14: PARKING AND ACCESS:
   A.   Each lot or parcel on which a single-family dwelling is located shall
have on the same lot or parcel a minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces.
Required parking spaces shall not be provided within a required front yard,
including driveways. Said spaces shall be paved with asphaltic cement or
concrete and shall be provided with a paved access from a public street or
graveled access on lots in the R1, R2 or DZ zones. Fully enclosed two (2) car
attached garages which have a minimum outside dimension width of twenty feet
(20'), as measured from outside of foundation to outside of foundation and have
at least four hundred (400) square feet of area, shall satisfy the off street
parking requirement. All platted subdivision lots shall meet the parking
requirements in effect when the subdivision was platted.
   B.   When a driveway is used for access to a rear parking area in an R1, R2
or DZ zone, or for a nonresidential use having less than five (5) parking
spaces, the side yard shall be wide enough to accommodate an unobstructed ten
foot (10') paved driveway. When used for access to a garage, carport or parking
area having six (6) or more parking spaces, the side yard shall be wide enough
to provide for an unobstructed twelve foot (12') paved driveway for one-way
traffic, or a twenty four foot (24') paved driveway for two-way traffic. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-15: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
The subdivision and master planned development code and international building
code shall be satisfied prior to the issuance of a building permit. A site plan
shall be submitted and approved prior to the issuance of any permit. (Ord. 13-
01, 9-3-2013)
9-7B-16: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Animal Limitations: The maintenance and keeping of animals and fowl on
a lot or parcel of land in an R1 or DZ zone, where such use is permitted, shall
be limited to a total of forty (40) animal points per one-half (1/2) acre of
land, excluding the residence (1/2 acre minimum required for animal points) as
determined from the chart below:
 
Horses and cattle 20 points
Sheep and goats   10 points
All animals located on a lot or parcel of land must be contained upon said lot
or parcel
 
      1.   Small Animals: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, rabbits, chinchillas
and other small animals are allowed according to the following requirements.
         a.   The permitted number of small animals based on the size of the
lot is as follows:
 
7,000 square feet  2 small animals
8,000 square feet  4 small animals
10,000 square feet 6 small animals
14,000 square feet 8 small animals
20,000 square feet 10 small animals
No more than 10 small animals will be permitted on any lot.
 
         b.   Small animals are allowed in most residential areas of the city.
Roosters and crowing hens are prohibited. The number of small animals you may
be allowed depends upon your size of lot. Minimum number of chickens is two (2)
for the social wellness of the chickens.
         c.    A minimum of two and one half (2.5) square feet per small animal
shall be provided. The coop shall not be larger than two hundred (200) square
feet and shall be located in the back yard. All coops and shelters are
considered accessory buildings and must meet all setback requirements. The
setback requirements for an accessory building can be found in section
9-7B-10. There shall be an enclosed run with a minimum of five (5) square feet
per small animal. Small animals are not allowed to run or roam free outside of
a fenced area. All coops and runs shall be kept clean and free from
objectionable odor.
         d.   The keeping of residential small animals cannot be used for a
business or monetary gain, including the sale of eggs. Dead animals and unused
eggs must be removed and disposed of within twenty four (24) hours. If a
complaint is made to the city about noise, odor or other violation(s) as
verified by the city Animal Control Officer, if the owner of the property fails
to mitigate the noise, odor or other violation, small animals will no longer be
allowed at that property. Any violation of this section shall be considered a
Class C Misdemeanor.
   B.   Landscaping: All open disturbed areas in residential zones between the
front lot line and the rear line of the main building, except driveways,
parking areas, walkways, utility areas, improved decks, patios and porches,
shall be maintained with suitable landscaping of plants, shrubs, trees, grass
and xeriscaping. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013; amd. Ord. 21-01, 11-3-2020)
   C.   Fences And Walls: Notwithstanding the setback, yard and height
requirements for structures otherwise stated in this title, fences, walls,
hedges, shrubs, berms and other unroofed landscaping appurtenances may be
located on the property line, or adjacent to the sidewalk, or in the yard
between the building setback line and the property line or sidewalk; provided,
that the maximum height above natural grade for a fencer wall, hedge, berm or
similar unroofed landscape feature is:
      1.   Four feet (4') where such fence or other feature is located in front
of the front building line of the dwelling or main building.
      2.   Six feet (6') where-such fence or other feature is located behind
the front building line of the dwelling or main building.
      3.   Three feet (3') where such fence or other feature is sight obscuring
and is located within the clear vision area of a corner lot, except for trees
from which the lower branches are pruned to provide a minimum seven foot (7')
high clear sight area below the tree. Shrubs are permitted in this area which
are trimmed to a height of three feet (3') or less.
      4.   Four feet (4') where such fence or other feature is sight obscuring
and is located in an area that is within ten feet (10') of a driveway and
twenty feet (20') of a street.
   D.   Barbed Wire: Barbed wire fences or any fence with barbed wire strands
shall not be allowed in the R1, R2 or DZ Residential Zones along or adjacent to
streets, nor as a division fence between adjoining lots or parcels of land
which are one-half (½) acre or less in size and occupied as a place of
residence. Any barbed wire fence so erected or maintained is hereby declared a
nuisance, except when used for security reasons around a public utility site.
   E.   Location Of Boats, Trailers, Campers, Motor Homes And Vehicles: Boats,
trailers, campers, motor homes and vehicles may not be stored in the front yard
of any lot or in the street side yard of a corner lot in excess of twenty four
(24) hours, except that a vehicle owned by a guest of the resident may be
stored in a required front yard or street side yard (on corner lots) for up to
seven (7) consecutive days per calendar quarter. A motor home, RV or vehicle
may be occupied by a resident or guests of the resident for up to seven (7)
consecutive days per calendar quarter.
   F.   Storage Of Commercial Vehicles: No trucks, motor vehicles or commercial
trailers having a registered weight exceeding twelve thousand (12,000) pounds
shall be stored or parked on any lot or parcel within any R1, R2 or DZ
Residential Zone, including construction and/or earthmoving equipment.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the tractor portion of a semitruck
may be parked or stored on a parcel or lot in a residential zone occupied by
the driver, provided said vehicle is parked or stored entirely within the
boundaries of said lot or parcel and provided further that the vehicle shall
not obstruct the public sidewalk or trail.
   G.   Temporary Mobile Homes: A temporary conditional use permit may be
issued for a temporary mobile home which may be located on the rear portion of
a residential lot during the construction of a permanent dwelling for not
longer than one (1) year. The Planning Commission may require that a bond or
other guarantee be posted to ensure that the temporary mobile home is removed
by the expiration date of the permit.
   H.   Trash And Waste Storage: No trash, used materials or wrecked or
nonoperational or abandoned vehicles or equipment shall be stored in an open
area or yard. All such materials must be screened from public streets and
adjacent property located within the R1, R2 or DZ Zones with an opaque fence or
wall or must be stored within an enclosed building. All trash storage areas
shall be screened and/or hidden from the public or adjoining residential area
view by appropriate fencing and/or landscaping methods and placed in a rear
area of the main building, if possible. No hazardous materials or chemicals or
oils/solvents shall be stored in areas that do not meet Health Department
regulations or are accessible to the public. Trash storage plans must be
presented to the Planning Commission for approval, prior to issuance of a
building permit. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013; amd. Ord. 21-01, 11-3-2020)
ARTICLE C. RETAIL ZONE
SECTION:
9-7C-1: Purpose And Objectives
9-7C-2: Permitted Uses
9-7C-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
9-7C-4: [Reserved]
9-7C-5: Lot Area
9-7C-6: Retail And Residential Area Requirements In Mixed Residential/Retail
Use Structures
9-7C-7: Lot Width
9-7C-8: Lot Frontage
9-7C-9: Prior Created Lots
9-7C-10: Area Of Zone
9-7C-11: Yard Requirements
9-7C-12: Projections Into Yards
9-7C-13: Building Height
9-7C-14: Distance Between Buildings
9-7C-15: Permissible Lot Coverage
9-7C-16: Parking, Loading And Access
9-7C-17: Project Plan Approval
9-7C-18: Other Requirements
9-7C-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
The retail (RT2) zone is established to provide a district primarily for the
accommodation of retail uses and retail areas which have been established in
locations within or close to the central core of the town. The town is not to
be an area of big box retail development. Such uses are more compatible with
other local communities. Though this zone may be applied to areas which may be
developed as "strip retail" developments along major streets and highways, it
shall not be used to promote or establish areas in which such development can
be promulgated or encouraged in violation of good planning principles. The
location of the RT2 zone should be close to major arterials to provide
convenient access for higher traffic volumes without hazard and without
traversing through a residential area. The RT2 zone shall not be applied to the
internal areas of residential neighborhoods. Although the RT2 zone may be
applied to existing retail and commercial areas which have a variety of
characteristics, the provisions contained herein should be used to encourage
greater integrity and aesthetic improvements as these areas are redeveloped,
expanded and improved. Integrated and coordinated landscaping, parking,
ingress, egress and signing and building design should be encouraged and
regulated through the use of project plan approval procedures. New construction
should be in harmony with the characteristics of the surrounding developed
retail, commercial and residential areas. The uses characteristic of this zone
will be a wide range of small retail and service stores and shops. (Ord. 13-01,
9-3-2013)
9-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
All permitted uses allowed under the RT2 zone are designated in appendix A to
this title (land uses by zone), on file in the town office, which designates
each use in the standard land use code format as published and maintained by
the planning commission. Those uses or categories of uses as listed therein,
and no others, are permitted in the RT2 zone. All such categories listed
therein and all specific uses contained within them in the standard land use
code will be permitted in the RT2 zone, subject to the limitations set forth
herein. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and structures are permitted in the RT2 zone, provided they are
incidental to, and do not substantially alter the character of, the permitted
principal use or structure. Such permitted uses and structures include, and are
limited to, the following:
Accessory buildings, such as garages, carports, equipment storage buildings and
supply garage buildings which are customarily used in conjunction with and
incidental to a principal use or structure permitted in the RT2 zone.
Storage of materials used for construction of buildings, including the
contractor's temporary office; provided, that such use be located on the
building site or immediately adjacent thereto, and provided further, that such
use shall be permitted only during the construction period and thirty (30) days
thereafter. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-4: [RESERVED]:
 
9-7C-5: LOT AREA:
There shall be no minimum lot area requirements in the RT2 zone, except as may
be dictated by off street parking requirements, adequate circulation and
property site utilization. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-6: RETAIL AND RESIDENTIAL AREA REQUIREMENTS IN MIXED RESIDENTIAL/RETAIL
USE STRUCTURES:
In mixed residential/retail use structures, the residential residence shall not
be permitted on the ground level and is permitted only above the retail
structure. Stand alone residential units shall comply with all R1 requirements.
(Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-7: LOT WIDTH:
Each lot or parcel shall have a minimum width of thirty five feet (35'), or a
width providing that all requirements of necessary parking regulations and yard
requirements can be satisfied. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-8: LOT FRONTAGE:
Each lot or parcel of land in the RT2 zone shall have frontage on a public
street for a minimum distance of thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-9: PRIOR CREATED LOTS:
Lots or parcels of land which were created prior to the application of this
zone shall not be denied a building permit solely for reasons of nonconformance
to the parcel requirements of this article. No new lot shall be created which
does not comply with section
9-7C-8 of this article. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-10: AREA OF ZONE:
Each single RT2 zone zoning district shall contain a minimum of ten (10) acres,
except those existing, previously developed retail and commercial facilities
and areas to which the RT2 zone is applied. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-11: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The following yard requirements shall apply in the RT2 zone:
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot or parcel of land in the RT2 zone shall have a
front yard of not less than ten feet (10'), except that in areas developed
prior to the establishment of this zone, the front yard shall be equal to the
average of existing front yards on all parcels of property along the block face
in which a building or structure is to be located.
   B.   Side Yards: Except as provided in subsections C through E of this
section, each lot or parcel of land in the RT2 zone shall have a side yard of
at least twenty feet (20') when located adjacent to a residential zone. There
shall be no requirements in those instances where the side property line abuts
a consolidated business zone.
   C.   Side Yard; Corner Lots: On corner lots, the side yard contiguous with
the street shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width, and shall not be
used for vehicular parking. Said area shall be appropriately landscaped, except
those portions devoted to access and driveway use.
   D.   Side Yard; Driveway: When used for access to any garage, carport or
parking area having less than five (5) parking spaces, a side yard shall be
wide enough to accommodate an unobstructed twelve foot (12') paved driveway.
When used for access to a garage, carport or parking area having six (6) or
more parking spaces, a side yard shall be wide enough to provide an
unobstructed fifteen foot (15') paved driveway for one-way traffic, or a twenty
foot (20') paved driveway for two-way traffic.
   E.   Side Yard; Accessory Building: An accessory building may be located on
a side property line if, and only if, all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   An accessory building has no openings on the side which is
contiguous to the property line, and the wall of said building adjacent to the
property line has a four (4) hour fire retardant rating.
      2.   The accessory building has facilities for the discharge of all roof
drainage onto the lot or parcel on which it is erected.
   F.   Rear Yard: There shall be no rear yard requirements, except as may be
dictated by provisions of the international building code.
   G.   Rear Yard; Accessory Building: Not permitted. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-12: PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS:
   A.   The following structures may be erected on, or project into, any
required yard, except into a required driveway:
      1.   Fences and walls in conformance with town codes and ordinances;
      2.   Landscaping elements, including trees, shrubs and other plants;
      3.   Necessary appurtenances for utility service.
   B.   The structures listed below may project into a minimum front or rear
yard not more than four feet (4') and into a minimum side yard not more than
two feet (2'), except that required driveways shall remain unobstructed from
the ground upward:
      1.   Cornices, eaves, belt courses, sills, buttresses or other similar
architectural features;
      2.   Stairways, balconies, door stoops, fire escapes, awnings and planter
boxes or masonry planters not exceeding twenty four inches (24") in height;
      3.   Carports and loading docks in a side yard; provided, that such a
structure is not more than one story in height and is entirely open on at least
three (3) sides, except for necessary supporting columns and customary
architectural features. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-13: BUILDING HEIGHT:
In the RT2 zone, the height of every building or structure hereinafter
designed, erected or structurally altered or enlarged, shall be regulated by
conformance to the requirements of the most recent edition of the international
building code. After the effective date hereof, all new structures exceeding
two (2) stories in height shall be served with elevators or escalators in
addition to the stairways otherwise required by law. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013;
amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-7C-14: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
No requirements, providing all necessary parking regulations can be met. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-15: PERMISSIBLE LOT COVERAGE:
No requirements, except as may be dictated by yard requirements, landscape
requirements and compliance with off street parking provisions. (Ord. 13-01, 9-
3-2013)
9-7C-16: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
   A.   Each lot or parcel in the RT2 zone shall have automobile parking
sufficient to meet the requirements as set forth in section
9-3-28 of this title.
   B.   All parking spaces shall be paved with asphaltic cement or concrete,
and shall be provided with adequate drainage which shall not run across a
public sidewalk.
   C.   Parking spaces shall not be provided within a required front yard or
side yard adjacent to a public street. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-17: PROJECT PLAN APPROVAL:
Prior to the construction of any project in the RT2 zone, a project plan shall
be submitted and approved. Said project shall be drawn to scale and shall
contain all required information designated on the application and/or
checklist. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7C-18: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
The following other requirements shall apply to developments within the RT2
zone:
   A.   Signs: All signs erected in the RT2 zone shall be in conformance with
the sign provisions of section
9-3-29 of this title.
   B.   Uses Within Buildings: All uses established in the RT2 zone shall be
conducted entirely within a fully enclosed building, with the exception of
service stations associated with convenience stores.
   C.   Landscaping: Each building or project in the RT2 zone shall be
landscaped, which shall be preapproved by the planning commission, subject to
the following:
      1.   Required front yard areas and required side yard areas adjacent to a
public street, except those portions devoted to driveways, shall be reasonably
landscaped with plants, shrubs, trees, grass and similar landscaping materials
(maintained with suitable landscaping of plants, shrubs, trees, grass and
similar landscaping materials).
      2.   All landscaped areas shall have sprinkling and/or irrigation
systems.
      3.   The use of natural landscaping materials with strong visual impact
shall be emphasized, including the use of bedding areas with perennial shrubs
where appropriate, clustering of trees and large sized plants.
      4.   Parking areas shall be landscaped where possible around the
periphery and at the ends of parking rows in accordance with the landscaping
plan approved as part of the project plan approval procedure.
   D.   Trash And Waste Storage: No trash, used materials or wrecked or
nonoperational or abandoned vehicles or equipment shall be stored in an open
area or yard. All such materials must be screened from public streets and
adjacent property located within the RT2 zones with an opaque fence or wall, or
must be stored within an enclosed building. All trash storage areas shall be
screened and/or hidden from the public or adjoining residential area view by
appropriate fencing and/or landscaping methods and placed in a rear area of the
main building, if possible. No hazardous materials or chemicals or oils/
solvents shall be stored in areas that do not meet health department
regulations or are accessible to the public. Trash storage plans must be
presented to the planning commission for approval prior to issuance of a
building permit.
   E.   Walls And Fences:
      1.   No wall, fence or opaque hedge or screening material higher than
thirty six inches (36") shall be maintained within a required front yard in an
RT2 zone.
      2.   A decorative masonry wall at least six feet (6') in height shall be
erected along all property lines which lie adjacent to a residential zone.
   F.   Remodeling In Existing RT2 Zones: If the remodeling of a building in
the RT2 zone causes the exterior of the building to be enlarged, the
landscaping requirements of this section shall apply, with the following
limitations:
      1.   The requirements of subsection C of this section shall not apply
where those requirements would conflict with parking requirements, be
incompatible with the design of existing buildings, or impair ingress or egress
to existing buildings or parking areas.
      2.   The requirements of subsection C of this section shall not be
applied to require improvements which cost more than five percent (5%) of the
total remodeling project.
   G.   Storage Facilities: All storage facilities shall be enclosed by a fence
or wall of a material and screening system that provides adequate security and
is architecturally compatible with the district that the facility is in. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
ARTICLE D. CONSOLIDATED BUSINESS ZONE
SECTION:
9-7D-1: Purpose And Objectives
9-7D-2: Permitted Uses
9-7D-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
9-7D-4: [Reserved]
9-7D-5: Lot Area
9-7D-6: Business And Residential Area Requirements In Mixed Residential/
Business Use Structures
9-7D-7: Lot Width
9-7D-8: Lot Frontage
9-7D-9: Prior Created Lots
9-7D-10: Area Of Zone
9-7D-11: Yard Requirements
9-7D-12: Projections Into Yards
9-7D-13: Building Height
9-7D-14: Distance Between Buildings
9-7D-15: Permissible Lot Coverage
9-7D-16: Parking, Loading And Access
9-7D-17: Project Plan Approval
9-7D-18: Other Requirements
9-7D-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
The consolidated business (B) zone is established to provide a district for the
accommodation of a wide variety of business activities, including mixed retail
uses; light and medium commercial uses; and light manufacturing and light
industrial uses. Firms can engage in processing, assembling, manufacturing,
warehousing and storage; and for incidental service facilities and public
facilities to serve the business area. The zone is intended to encourage sound
development by providing and protecting an environment for such developments,
subject to regulations necessary to assure the orderly growth of the town and
the protection of agricultural and residential land uses from noise and other
disturbances. This zone is characterized by flat, open land suited for
industrial uses because of the proximity to good transportation routes and the
availability of utilities necessary for successful manufacturing or processing.
The areas in which this zone is applied provides for land reserves for retail,
commercial, industrial and manufacturing uses. Some land may therefore be
placed in agricultural and other open land uses until its business development
potential is realized. Uses which generate excessive noise, vibration, smoke,
odor, dust, fumes or excessive danger of explosion have been excluded from this
zone. This zone is designed to accommodate clean manufacturing or industrial
types of uses as well as retail and commercial uses. The basic objectives of
the B zone are to:
   A.   Provide space for retail, commercial, light manufacturing and
processing uses within the town in appropriate locations and to prohibit uses
from locating within this zone which will tend to deteriorate general business
and light manufacturing environment, and thwart the use of land for commercial
business purposes.
   B.   Broaden the tax base and improve the job potential and the economic
base of the community.
   C.   Promote new small industry to the end that the economic and social well
being of the town and its inhabitants shall be enhanced.
   D.   Discourage the undesirable mixture of incompatible business uses and
residential uses. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-2: PERMITTED USES:
All permitted uses allowed under the B zone are designated in appendix A to
this title (land uses by zone), on file in the town office, which designates
each use in the standard land use code format as published and maintained by
the planning commission. Those uses or categories of uses as listed therein,
and no others, are permitted in the B zone. All such categories listed therein
and all specific uses contained within them in the standard land use code will
be permitted in the B zone, subject to the limitations set forth herein. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and structures are permitted in the B zone, provided they are
incidental to, and do not substantially alter the character of, the permitted
principal use or structure. Such permitted uses and structures include, but are
not limited to, the following:
Accessory buildings such as equipment storage buildings and supply storage
buildings which are customarily used in conjunction with and incidental to a
principal use or structure permitted in the B zone.
Storage of materials used for construction of buildings, including the
contractor's temporary office; provided, that such use be located on the
building site or immediately adjacent thereto; and provided, further, that such
use shall be permitted only during the construction period and thirty (30) days
thereafter. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-4: [RESERVED]:
 
9-7D-5: LOT AREA:
There shall be no minimum lot area requirements in the B zone, except as may be
dictated by off street parking requirements, adequate circulation and property
site utilization. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-6: BUSINESS AND RESIDENTIAL AREA REQUIREMENTS IN MIXED RESIDENTIAL/
BUSINESS USE STRUCTURES:
Mixed residential/business use structures are not permitted. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-
2013)
9-7D-7: LOT WIDTH:
There shall be a minimum thirty five foot (35') requirement for lot width.
(Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-8: LOT FRONTAGE:
Each lot or parcel of land in the B zone shall have frontage on a public street
for a minimum distance of thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-9: PRIOR CREATED LOTS:
Lots or parcels of land which were created prior to the application of this
zone shall not be denied a building permit solely for reasons of nonconformance
to the parcel requirements of this article. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-10: AREA OF ZONE:
Each single B zone district shall contain a minimum of fifty (50) acres. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-11: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The following yard requirements shall apply in the B zone:
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot or parcel of land in the B zone shall have a front
yard of not less than ten feet (10'). The front yard shall be equal to the
average of existing front yards on all parcels of property along the block face
in which a building or structure is to be located.
   B.   Side Yards: There shall be no requirements.
   C.   Side Yard; Corner Lots: On corner lots, the side yard contiguous with
the street shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width, and shall not be
used for vehicular parking. Said area shall be appropriately landscaped, except
those portions devoted to access and driveway use.
   D.   Side Yard; Driveway: When used for access to any garage, carport or
parking area having less than five (5) parking spaces, a side yard shall be
wide enough to accommodate an unobstructed twelve foot (12') paved driveway.
When used for access to a garage, carport or parking area having six (6) or
more parking spaces, a side yard shall be wide enough to provide an
unobstructed fifteen foot (15') paved driveway for one-way traffic, or a twenty
foot (20') paved driveway for two-way traffic.
   E.   Side Yard; Accessory Building: An accessory building may be located on
a side property line if, and only if, all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   An accessory building has no openings on the side which is
contiguous to the property line, and the wall of said building adjacent to the
property line has a four (4) hour fire retardant rating.
      2.   The accessory building has facilities for the discharge of all roof
drainage onto the lot or parcel on which it is erected.
   F.   Rear Yard: There shall be no rear yard requirements, except as may be
dictated by provisions of the international building code.
   G.   Rear Yard; Accessory Building: An accessory building may be located on
a rear property line if, and only if, all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   An accessory building has no openings on the side which is
contiguous to the property line, and the wall of said building adjacent to the
property line has a four (4) hour fire retardant rating.
      2.   The accessory building has facilities for the discharge of all roof
drainage onto the lot or parcel on which it is erected. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-12: PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS:
   A.   The following structures may be erected on, or project into, any
required yard, except into a required driveway:
      1.   Fences and walls in conformance with town codes and ordinances;
      2.   Landscaping elements, including trees, shrubs and other plants;
      3.   Necessary appurtenances for utility service.
   B.   The structures listed below may project into a minimum front or rear
yard not more than four feet (4'), and into a minimum side yard not more than
two feet (2'), except that required driveways shall remain unobstructed from
the ground upward:
      1.   Cornices, eaves, belt courses, sills, buttresses or other similar
architectural features;
      2.   Stairways, balconies, door stoops, fire escapes, awnings and planter
boxes or masonry planters not exceeding twenty four inches (24") in height;
      3.   Carports and loading docks in a side yard or rear yard; provided,
that such a structure is not more than one story in height and is entirely open
on at least three (3) sides, except for necessary supporting columns and
customary architectural features. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-13: BUILDING HEIGHT:
In the B zone, the height of every building or structure hereinafter designed,
erected or structurally altered or enlarged shall be regulated by conformance
to the requirements of the most recent edition of the international building
code. After the effective date hereof, all new structures exceeding two (2)
stories in height shall be served with elevators or escalators in addition to
the stairways otherwise required by law. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013; amd. Ord. 20-
02, 3-17-2020)
9-7D-14: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
No requirements, providing all necessary parking regulations can be met. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-15: PERMISSIBLE LOT COVERAGE:
No requirements, except as may be dictated by yard requirements, landscape
requirements and compliance with off street parking provisions. (Ord. 13-01, 9-
3-2013)
9-7D-16: PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
   A.   Each lot or parcel in the B zone shall have automobile parking
sufficient to meet the requirements as set forth in section
9-3-28 of this title.
   B.   All parking spaces shall be paved with asphaltic cement or concrete,
and shall be provided with adequate drainage which shall not run across a
public sidewalk.
   C.   Parking spaces shall not be provided within a required front yard or
side yard adjacent to a public street. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-17: PROJECT PLAN APPROVAL:
Prior to the construction of any project in the B zone, a project plan shall be
submitted and approved. Said project shall be drawn to scale and shall contain
all required information designated on the application and/or checklist. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7D-18: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
The following other requirements shall apply to developments within the B zone:
   A.   Signs: All signs erected in the B zone shall be in conformance with the
sign provisions of section
9-3-29 of this title.
   B.   Uses Within Buildings: All uses established in the B zone shall be
conducted entirely within a fully enclosed building, except those uses deemed
by the planning commission to be customarily and appropriately conducted in the
open. Such uses may include, but would not be limited to, service stations, ice
skating, miniature golf, plant nurseries, etc.
   C.   Landscaping: Each building or project in the B zone shall be landscaped
which shall be preapproved by the planning commission subject to the following:
      1.   Required front yard areas and required side yard areas adjacent to a
public street, except those portions devoted to driveways, shall be reasonably
landscaped with plants, shrubs, trees, grass and similar landscaping materials
(maintained with suitable landscaping of plants, shrubs, trees, grass and
similar landscaping materials).
      2.   All landscaped areas shall have sprinkling and/or irrigation
systems.
      3.   All parking areas shall be screened from public streets by a
landscaped berm, decorative screening wall, planted hedge or other reasonable
methods.
      4.   The use of natural landscaping materials with strong visual impact
shall be emphasized, including the use of bedding areas with perennial shrubs
where appropriate, clustering of trees and large sized plants.
      5.   Parking areas shall be landscaped where possible around the
periphery and at the ends of parking rows in accordance with the landscaping
plan approved as part of the project plan approval procedure.
   D.   Trash And Waste Storage: No trash, used materials or wrecked or
nonoperational or abandoned vehicles or equipment shall be stored in an open
area or yard. All such materials must be screened from public streets and
adjacent property located within the B zones with an opaque fence or wall, or
must be stored within an enclosed building. All trash storage areas shall be
screened and/or hidden from the public or adjoining area view by appropriate
fencing and/or landscaping methods and placed in a rear area of the main
building if possible. No hazardous materials or chemicals or oils/solvents
shall be stored in areas that do not meet health department regulations or are
accessible to the public. Trash storage plans must be presented to the planning
commission for approval prior to issuance of a building permit.
   E.   Walls And Fences:
      1.   No wall, fence or opaque hedge or screening material higher than
thirty six inches (36") shall be maintained within a required front yard in a B
zone.
      2.   A decorative masonry wall at least six feet (6') in height shall be
erected along all property lines which lie adjacent to a residential zone.
   F.   Remodeling In Existing B Zones: If the remodeling of a building in the
B zone causes the exterior of the building to be enlarged, the landscaping
requirements of this section shall apply, with the following limitations:
      1.   The requirements of subsection C of this section shall not apply
where those requirements would conflict with parking requirements, be
incompatible with the design of existing buildings or impair ingress or egress
to existing buildings or parking areas.
      2.   The requirements of subsection C of this section shall not be
applied to require improvements which cost more than five percent (5%) of the
total remodeling project.
   G.   Storage Facilities: All commercial storage or warehousing facilities
shall be enclosed by a fence or wall of a material and screening system that
provides adequate security and is architecturally compatible with the
consolidated business district neighborhood that the facility is in. (Ord. 13-
01, 9-3-2013)
ARTICLE E. SENSITIVE LANDS OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
9-7E-1: Purpose And Objectives
9-7E-2: Regulations
9-7E-3: Applicability Of Partially Covered Lots
9-7E-4: Subdivision Proposals
9-7E-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   The sensitive lands overlay zone is a special zone that may be placed
over any other existing zone that is in an area designated or believed to
posses lands that are sensitive due to excessive slopes, ridgeline and hillside
visual protection areas, unsuitable or sensitive soils for building, wetlands,
stream protection areas, critical wildlife habitats or migration areas, fire
hazards, flooding hazards and any other geologic type hazards. The designation
of this overlay to a particular zone below it is accomplished by prefixing the
zone with the (S) designation. For example: S-A1 would mean that the
agricultural one acre zone (A1) would lie either partially or completely within
the sensitive lands overlay zone. When used elsewhere as an abbreviation, the
sensitive lands overlay zone will be referred to as (SLOZ).
   B.   The treatment of development proposals in this overlay zone are treated
very critically to protect not only the residents of the development, but the
developer, project owners and town residents from hazards, potential liability
and/or property damage. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7E-2: REGULATIONS:
The regulations covering additional studies and treatment of these areas prior
to any development taking place are detailed in chapter 10 of this title. All
regulations in chapter 10 of this title are in addition to any zone regulations
in this chapter or any other studies, conditions or regulations in any other
chapter of this title, including, but not limited to, the infrastructure review
process outlined in section
9-1-13 of this title, the right to farm provisions of section
9-3-33 of this title, and the subdivision and master planned development (MPD)
regulations of chapter 8, articles A through E, and chapter 9 of this title.
(Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7E-3: APPLICABILITY OF PARTIALLY COVERED LOTS:
If a property or lot is covered only partially by the sensitive lands overlay
zone, all the conditions and regulations of chapter 10 of this title will still
apply to that portion, or all of the lot or parcel if the overlay zone covers
over fifty percent (50%) of the parcel. All types of development, including any
necessary infrastructure needed to service the development, are subject to the
environmental impact review and remediation or treatments of impacts derived
therefrom, including density transfers, clustering, buildings or facilities
relocation or prohibitions from development. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-7E-4: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
All subdivision proposals within the sensitive lands overlay zone must be
submitted and applied for as a master planned development. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-
2013; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
CHAPTER 8
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-8A-1: Title
9-8A-2: Policy
9-8A-3: Purposes
9-8A-4: Authority
9-8A-5: Jurisdiction
9-8A-6: Enactment
9-8A-7: Interpretation, Conflict And Separability
9-8A-8: Saving Provision
9-8A-9: Reservations And Repeal
9-8A-10: Amendments
9-8A-11: Conditions
9-8A-12: Vacation, Alteration Or Amendment Of Plats
9-8A-13: Variances
9-8A-14: Enforcement, Violations And Penalties
9-8A-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as the
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF CORINNE CITY, UTAH, or chapter 8 of the subdivision
and master planned development code of Corinne City. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-2: POLICY:
   A.   Control And Jurisdiction: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
town to consider the subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the
subdivided plat as subject to the control of the town pursuant to the official
comprehensive or general plan of the town for the orderly, planned, efficient
and economical development of the town.
   B.   Public Services And Health, Safety And Welfare Protection: Land to be
subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used safely for building
purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood, landslide,
subsidence, geologic and natural hazards, or other menace, and land shall not
be subdivided and developed until available public facilities and improvements
exist (or adequate guarantees are in place) and proper provision has been made
for drainage, water, sewerage and capital improvements, such as schools, parks
and recreation facilities, streets and transportation facilities, and related
improvements. If necessary and required public facilities, infrastructure and
safety protections are not in place or cannot be provided for, the subdivision
and/or development will not be allowed.
   C.   Conformance With Town Plans And Standards: The existing and proposed
public improvements shall conform and be properly related to the proposals
shown in the general plan, streets master plan, official zoning map, and the
capital budget and infrastructure improvement program of the town, and it is
intended that these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement
of the provisions and standards contained in the international building and
housing code, the subdivision and master planned development code, general
plan, official zoning map, and capital budget and infrastructure improvement
program of the town, as they may be adopted. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-3: PURPOSES:
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the town.
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the town, in accordance
with the comprehensive or general plan.
   C.   To provide for adequate light, solar access, open space, air, and
privacy, to secure safety from fire, flood, landslides and other geologic and
natural hazards, and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population.
   D.   To protect the rural agricultural character (i.e., rights of farming 1
) and the social and economic stability of all parts of the town and to
encourage the orderly and beneficial development of all parts of the town.
   E.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the town and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
   F.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation, streets, and other public requirements and facilities.
   G.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the town, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines.
   H.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
   I.   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision.
   J.   To prevent the pollution or degradation of air, streams and ponds; to
assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; to
minimize site disturbance and the removal of native vegetation and soil
erosion; and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources
throughout the town in order to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of
the community and the value of the land.
   K.   To preserve the natural and rural agricultural beauty and topography of
the town, and to ensure appropriate development with regard to these valued
natural, historical, cultural, character, and quality of life features.
   L.   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout
of the land, including the use of flexible density or cluster type zoning in
providing for minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of
land as established in the subdivision and master planned development code.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-3-33 of this title.
9-8A-4: AUTHORITY:
   A.   State Law: By authority of ordinance of the town council of Corinne
City (hereinafter referred to as "town council"), adopted pursuant to the
powers and jurisdictions vested through Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-601
et seq., as amended, and other applicable laws, statutes, ordinances and
regulations of the state, the town council hereby exercises the power and
authority to review, approve and disapprove plats for the subdivision of land
within the corporate limits of the town, which show lots, blocks or sites, with
or without new streets or highways.
   B.   Existing Subdivisions: By the same authority, the town council does
hereby exercise the power and authority to pass and approve development in
subdivisions of land already recorded in the office of the county recorder if
such are entirely or partially undeveloped.
   C.   Undeveloped Subdivision Definition: The subdivision shall be considered
to be entirely or partially undeveloped if:
      1.   Said plat for subdivision has been recorded with the county
recorder's office without a prior approval by the town council; or
      2.   Said plat for subdivision has been approved by the town council
where the approval has been granted more than three (3) years prior to granting
a building permit, on the partially or entirely undeveloped land and the zoning
regulations, either bulk or use, for the district in which the subdivision is
located, have been changed subsequent to the original final subdivision
approval. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-5: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Scope: These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of
land, as defined herein, located within the corporate limits of the town.
   B.   Requirements Prior To Subdividing: No land shall be subdivided within
the corporate limits of the town until:
      1.   The subdivider or his agent shall submit a sketch plat of the parcel
to the planning commission through the chairperson of the planning commission;
      2.   Obtained written approval of the sketch plat and preliminary and
final approval of the plat itself by the planning commission and town council;
and
      3.   The approved plat is filed with the county recorder.
   C.   Permits Issued Upon Conformity: No building permit or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any parcel or plat of land which was created by
subdivision after the effective date of, and not in conformity with, the
provisions of these subdivision regulations or approved under a prior
subdivision ordinance, and no excavation of land or construction of any public
or private improvements shall take place or be commenced except in conformity
with the applicable town regulations. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-6: ENACTMENT:
In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with these purposes and
policies, these subdivision regulations are hereby adopted. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-7: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   Conflict With Public And Private Provisions:
      1.   Public Provisions: These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or
other provision of law. Where any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of
law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall
control.
      2.   Private Provisions: These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction; provided,
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant or private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards
than the requirements of these regulations, or the conditions of the planning
commission or the town in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these
regulations, and such private provisions are not inconsistent with these
regulations or determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be
operative and supplemental to these regulations and conditions imposed;
provided, however, that the town is under no obligation to enforce private
covenants.
   C.   Separability: If any part or provision of these regulations or
application thereof to any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the part, provision or application directly involved in all
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not
affect or impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The town council hereby
declares that it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even
without any such part, provision or application. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-8: SAVING PROVISION:
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the town under any section or provision existing at the
time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights
obtained by any person, firm or corporation, by lawful action of the town,
except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations. (Ord., 1-18-
2005)
9-8A-9: RESERVATIONS AND REPEAL:
Upon the effective date hereof according to law, the original subdivision
ordinance of Corinne City, Utah, as previously adopted and as amended, is
hereby repealed, except as to any design or construction standards and
specifications not included or updated in this title and any other such
sections expressly retained herein. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-10: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of providing the public health, safety and general welfare, the
town council may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by the
subdivision regulations. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be
held by the planning commission and town council in the manner prescribed by
law and outlined in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-11: CONDITIONS:
Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state to the town. The developer has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions for design, dedication, improvement and restrictive use
of the land so as to conform to the physical and economical development of the
town, and to the safety and general welfare of the future lot owners in the
subdivision and of the community at large. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-12: VACATION, ALTERATION OR AMENDMENT OF PLATS:
The town council may, on its own motion, or pursuant to a petition, consider at
a public hearing any proposed vacation, alteration or amendment of a
subdivision plat, or any street, lot, alley or public use area contained in a
subdivision plat, as provided in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-9a-608 through
10-9a-609, as amended. If a petition for vacation, alteration or amendment is
filed, a public hearing shall be held within forty five (45) days of the date
of filing. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-13: VARIANCES:
   A.   General: Where the board of adjustment finds that extraordinary
hardships or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with
these regulations and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a
greater extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these
subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured; provided, that such variance shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided,
the board of adjustment shall not approve variances unless it shall make
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case and that
the intent outlined in this title has been satisfied.
   B.   Conditions: In approving variances, the board of adjustment may require
such conditions that will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
of the standards or requirements of these regulations.
   C.   Procedures: A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing in accordance with the subdivision and master planned development code
and on a letter of application provided to the town by the subdivider at the
time the preliminary plat is filed or submitted. The petition shall state fully
the grounds for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the
petitioner. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8A-14: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the planning commission to enforce
these regulations and to bring to the attention of the town attorney and town
council any violations or lack of compliance herewith.
   B.   Sale Restrictions: No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of
land located in a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel
before a plat of such subdivision has been approved by the planning commission
and town council in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, and
filed with the county recorder.
   C.   Evasion And Adjustments: The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of
land by the use of metes and bounds description for the purpose of sale,
transfer or lease with the intent of evading these regulations, shall not be
permitted, except that the town may approve metes and bounds descriptions for
purposes of lot line adjustments, resolving conflicting boundary descriptions,
and the recombination of old historically platted properties located within the
town. All such described subdivisions shall be subject to all of the
requirements contained in these regulations.
   D.   Permitting Restriction: No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided
or sold in violation of the provisions of these regulations. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
   E.   Violations And Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation who fails to
comply with, or violates, any of these regulations shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
   F.   Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by
law or in equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a
violation, to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises,
and these remedies shall be in addition to the penalties described above.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
ARTICLE B. SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
9-8B-1: General Procedure
9-8B-2: Sketch Plat
9-8B-3: Preliminary Plat
9-8B-4: Final Subdivision Plat
9-8B-5: Signing And Recording Of Subdivision Plat
9-8B-1: GENERAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Classification Of Subdivisions: Whenever any subdivision of land is
proposed, before any contract is made for the sale of any part thereof, and
before any permit for the erection of a structure in such proposed subdivision
shall be granted, the subdividing owner, or his authorized agent, shall apply
for and secure approval of such proposed subdivision in accordance with the
following procedure, which includes basically two (2) steps for a minor
subdivision and three (3) steps for a major subdivision (see chapter 2 of this
title for detailed definitions of a "major subdivision" and "minor
subdivision"):
      1.   Minor subdivision: Sketch plat and final subdivision plat.
      2.   Major subdivision: Sketch plat, preliminary plat and final
subdivision plat. Requires impact analysis and market analysis.
   B.   Official Submission Dates: At its discretion, the planning commission
may waive one or more of the steps in the approval process by allowing the
subdivider to combine the requirements of both preliminary and final
subdivision plats into a single submittal. For the purpose of these
regulations, for both major and minor subdivisions, the date of the regular
meetings of the planning commission at which the public hearings on final
approval of the subdivision plat, including any adjourned date thereof, is
closed, shall constitute the official submittal date of the plat at which the
statutory period required for formal approval or disapproval of the plat shall
commence to run.
   C.   Coordination Of Master Planned Development Application With Subdivision
Approval:
      1.   Concurrent Review: It is the intent of these regulations that
subdivision review be carried out simultaneously with the review of master
planned developments. Required applications shall be submitted in a form to
satisfy both the requirements of the subdivision regulations and master planned
development provisions of the town subdivision and master planned development
code. Any project falling within the sensitive lands area overlay zone may be
subject to additional requirements and regulations as outlined in the sensitive
lands overlay zone regulations.
      2.   General Requirement: All subdivisions and residential projects on
contiguously owned property larger than five (5) acres or more than three (3)
lots or residential units must be processed as a master planned development,
subject to the provisions outlined in chapter 9 of this title. Subdivisions
containing fewer than four (4) units would be exempt from this requirement,
unless the applicant wishes to be reviewed as a minor MPD (see chapter 9 of
this title). Whenever the subdivision and master planned development code
authorizes master planned development (MPD) applications which permit uses of
land and density of buildings and structures different from those which are
allowed as of right within the zoning district in which the land is situated,
and/or the application entails the division of the land, vacant or improved,
into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or interests for the
purpose of offer, sale, lease or development, either on the installment plan or
upon any or all other plans, terms or conditions, including resubdivision,
whether residential or nonresidential, subdivision approval of the application
shall be required by the planning commission and town council in addition to
all other procedures and approvals required in the subdivision and master
planned development code, whether or not such zoning procedures also require
town council approval, review or recommendation.
      3.   Procedure To Be Followed:
         a.   Sketch Plan And Preliminary Plat Approval Required: Whenever a
master planned development (MPD) application is submitted which involves a
subdivision of land as set forth in this regulation, such application shall be
submitted first to the planning department staff authorized to accept such
application under the subdivision and master planned development code. The
application shall be made on the forms required for a sketch plat as set forth
in section
9-8B-2 of this article, and shall include all information required of a sketch
plat application as set forth herein. The planning commission shall thereupon
review the application of the sketch plat and preliminary plat. The planning
department shall also, when applicable under the provisions of this title, make
such reviews of use, density and bulk standards as required under the MPD
zoning regulations.
         b.   Referral Back For Zoning Approval: The planning department and
town staff shall thereupon refer the sketch plat and preliminary plat with its
recommendation of approval, conditional approval or disapproval, together with
such recommendations and reviews of use, density and bulk standards as it was
required to make under the master planned development and sensitive lands
overlay zone regulations of the subdivision and master planned development
code, to the planning commission, as authorized under the subdivision and
master planned development code, to approve the application. Application shall
then be made to the planning commission and town council for final plat
approval. No building permits or certificates of occupancy shall be issued for
the project until the zoning application for the MPD has been finally approved
and final subdivision plat approval has been given and the subdivision plat is
recorded with the county recorder.
      4.   Resubdivisions Of Master Planned Developments: A master planned
development may be subdivided or resubdivided for purposes of sale or lease
after the project plan has been finally approved and development completed or
partially completed. If, however, the subdivision or resubdivision of a master
planned development (MPD) will create a new lot line, the applicant shall make
application to the planning commission requesting approval of the subdivision
or resubdivision. The planning commission and town council shall approve the
subdivision only if simultaneously an amended MPD application is approved for
the development plan by the planning commission as having jurisdiction under
the subdivision and master planned development code for all provisions
governing use, density and bulk standards. The amended MPD application and plat
must meet general plan and zoning density standards (as adjusted for any
density bonuses approved) or regulations for the zone in which the original MPD
resides.
   D.   Phasing Plan Required:
      1.   When Phasing Plan Required: All residential subdivisions with more
than four (4) lots or condominiums shall include a phasing plan which specifies
the timing of public improvements and residential construction. This plan must
be submitted to the planning commission at or before the submission of the
preliminary plat.
      2.   Phasing Plan Requirements: A phasing plan shall include:
         a.   The number of units or parcels to be developed in each phase and
the timing of each phase based on market analysis and impact analysis on public
services. A new market analysis is required before development of each phase
can begin.
         b.   The timing on construction of public improvements and subdivision
amenities to serve each phase, whether on and/or off site.
         c.   The relationship between the public improvements in the current
subdivision and contiguous land previously subdivided and yet to be subdivided.
      3.   Phasing Consistency: If the subdivision is in an area covered by an
approved master planned development which has a phasing plan, the phasing plan
for the subdivision shall be consistent with the phasing plan for the master
planned development.
      4.   Revisions: A developer may request a revision of the phasing plan
which may be necessary due to such conditions as changing market conditions,
inclement weather or other factors. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8B-2: SKETCH PLAT:
   A.   Discussion Of Requirements:
      1.   Before preparing the sketch plat for a subdivision, the applicant
should arrange for a preapplication conference with the planning commission to
discuss the procedure for approval of a subdivision plat and the specifications
and requirements as to general layout of streets and for reservations of land,
street improvements, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, mitigation of
environmental impacts as determined, and similar matters, as well as the
availability of existing services. A market analysis is also required.
Concurrent review of MPD requirements, if applicable, may also be discussed at
this time.
      2.   The planning commission shall also advise the applicant, where
appropriate, to discuss the proposed subdivision with those agencies who must
eventually approve those aspects of the subdivision plat coming within their
jurisdiction; such as, the fire department, Box Elder school district, and the
various utility service providers. Neighbors of the planned project should also
be consulted to get their views and/or concerns.
   B.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Prior to any process or
procedure for subdividing land as contained in this title, an owner of the land
or his/her representative shall file an application for approval of a sketch
plat. The application shall:
      1.   Form: Be made on a form available at the office of the planning
commission or in letter form containing the following elements, if approval to
file by letter is granted by the planning commission.
      2.   Holdings Disclosure: Include all contiguous holdings of the owner,
unless specifically waived by the planning commission, including land in the
"same ownership", as defined in section
9-2-1 of this title, with an indication of the portion which is proposed to be
subdivided, accompanied by an affidavit of ownership, which shall include the
dates the respective holdings of land were acquired, together with the book and
page of each conveyance to the present owner as recorded in the county
recorder's office. The affidavit shall advise as to the legal owner of the
property, the contract owner of the property, the date a contract of sale was
executed, and, if any corporations are involved, a copy of the resolution
legally empowering the applicant to make the application.
      3.   Copies: Be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) copies of the sketch
plat as described in these regulations and complying, in all respects, with
these regulations.
      4.   Delivery: Be presented to and received by the planning commission.
      5.   Fee: Be accompanied by a review fee in accordance with the adopted
fee resolution of the town in effect at the time the application is filed.
      6.   Contact: The application shall include an address and telephone
number of an agent located within either the territory of the town or the
state, who shall be authorized to receive all notices required by these
regulations.
      7.   Surrounding Owners: Be accompanied by a list of all property owners
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the proposed subdivision boundary (or
2,500 feet if a rezone is necessary).
   C.   Classification: Tentative classification of the sketch layout shall be
made by the planning commission as to whether the subdivision is a "major
subdivision" or "minor subdivision", as defined in section
9-2-1 of this title, or must be submitted as a master planned development.
Subsequent to classification of the subdivision and its preliminary report, as
required by these regulations, the planning commission shall place the matter
on the next available regular meetings agenda of the planning commission for
formal approval of the sketch layout. After such approval by the planning
commission, the applicant may proceed directly to the filing of a final
subdivision plat as provided in these regulations if classified as a minor
subdivision, and, if classified as a major subdivision, an application for
approval of a preliminary plat, as provided in these regulations, before filing
for a final subdivision plat approval.
   D.   Review Of Sketch Plat:
      1.   The planning commission shall consider and render a report to the
next regular meeting of the planning commission concerning the sketch plat. The
planning commission shall transmit the sketch plat for review to appropriate
officials or agencies of the local government, adjoining county or
municipalities, school, fire and other special service type districts, and
other official bodies as it deems necessary or as mandated by law, including
any review required by metropolitan, regional or state bodies under applicable
state or federal law. The planning commission shall request that all officials
and agencies to whom a request for review has been made, submit their report to
the planning commission within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the
request. The planning commission will consider all the reports submitted by the
officials and agencies concerning the sketch plat and shall submit a report for
proposed action by the planning commission at the next available regular
meetings.
      2.   Once an application is received, the planning commission will work
diligently to review the application, as quickly as time and workload allow. It
is reasonable to expect that an application will be acted upon by the planning
commission with a recommendation within ninety (90) days of receipt of the
application. The scale or complexity of a project or planning commission
workload may necessitate a longer processing period. In such cases, the
planning commission will notify the applicant when an application is filed as
to the projected time frame. If the workload is too great for processing by the
planning commission, the project review may be sent out to a consulting
planner, engineer or architect approved by the town. The developer would be
responsible for all fees incurred in any plan or development review process
undertaken by an outside agency or consultant.
   E.   Planning Commission Review Of Sketch Plat: The planning commission
shall study the sketch plat, taking into consideration the requirements of the
subdivision ordinance and the best use of the land being subdivided. Particular
attention will be given to the arrangement, location and width of streets,
their relation to sewerage disposal, drainage, utilities, erosion, location of
natural or geologic hazards, lot sizes and arrangement, the further development
of adjoining lands as yet unsubdivided, and the requirements of the official
zoning map, general plan, land use map and streets master plan, as adopted by
the planning commission and town council.
   F.   Approval Of Sketch Plat: After reviewing and discussing the sketch plat
and report from the consultant, if required, and other reports, as submitted by
invited agencies and officials, the planning commission will advise the
applicant of the specific changes or additions, if any, it will require in the
layout, and the character and extent of required improvements and reservations
which it will require as a prerequisite to the approval of the subdivision
plat. The planning commission may require additional changes as a result of
further study of the subdivision in final form. Said approval shall constitute
authorization to prepare and submit a preliminary plat in the case of a major
subdivision and a final subdivision plat in the case of a minor subdivision.
   G.   Expiration: Approval of the sketch plat by planning commission shall
expire within one year unless a preliminary plat or a final plat in the case of
a minor subdivision, in compliance with the following section, has been
submitted for review. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8B-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Based upon the approval of the
planning commission of the sketch plat for a major subdivision, the applicant
should file an application for approval of a preliminary plat. The application
shall:
      1.   Form: Be made on a form available at the office of the planning
commission or in letter containing the following elements, if approval to file
by letter is granted by the planning commission.
      2.   Surrounding Owners: Include all land which the applicant proposes to
subdivide and all land immediately adjacent, extending one thousand feet
(1,000') therefrom, or of that directly opposite thereto, extending one
thousand feet (1,000') from the street frontage of such opposite land, with the
names and addresses of the owners as shown on the county assessor's tax files,
together with a stamped, addressed envelope for each such owner. The mailing
address information may be shown on a separate current tax map reproduction
from the assessor's office showing the subdivision imposed thereon.
      3.   Copies: Be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) copies of the
preliminary plat as described in these regulations.
      4.   Prior Regulations: Comply in all respects with the sketch plat as
previously approved.
      5.   Presentation: Be presented to the planning commission at least four
(4) weeks prior to a regular meeting of the planning commission. The planning
commission may refer the proposed preliminary plat to an outside consultant
and/or a technical review committee or hold work sessions for their review,
recommendations and report. Such report shall be submitted in writing to the
planning commission prior to the next regular meeting of the planning
commission.
   B.   Public Hearings: The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on
the preliminary plat. Such hearing shall be advertised in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 1 of this title and in the same manner as the
subsequent public hearings on the final subdivision plat; except, however, that
the planning commission may, at its sole discretion, combine the required
hearings for both preliminary and final subdivision plat approval.
   C.   Preliminary Approval: After the planning commission has reviewed the
preliminary plat and the report of the staff, including any town
recommendations and testimony and exhibits submitted at the public hearing, the
applicant shall be advised of any required changes and/or additions. One copy
of the proposed preliminary plat shall be returned to the developer with the
date of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval and the reasons therefor
accompanying the plat. Before the planning commission approves a preliminary
plat showing land for public use (other than proposed public streets) proposed
to be dedicated to the local government, the planning commission shall obtain
preliminary approval of the park or land reservation from the town council. If
the project involves a conservation type easement, the planning commission must
receive approval or comments from an approved land trust involved in the
transaction.
   D.   Public Improvements: The planning commission may require that all
public improvements be installed and dedicated prior to the signing of the
final subdivision plat by the chairperson of the planning commission. If the
planning commission elects not to require that all public improvements be
installed and dedicated prior to signing of the final subdivision plat by the
chairperson of the planning commission, the amount of the guarantee, in
compliance with the requirements of the subdivision and master planned
development code, shall be established by the planning commission based upon
the recommendation of the town engineer, which shall be submitted by the
applicant at the time of application for final subdivision plat approval. The
planning commission shall require the applicant to indicate on both the
preliminary and final plat all roads and public improvements to be dedicated,
all special districts for water, sewer, fire and other utility improvements
which shall be required to be established or extended, all town approved street
names and addresses, and any other special requirements deemed necessary by the
planning commission in order to conform the subdivision plat to the official
zoning map and the master plans of the town.
   E.   Effective Period Of Preliminary Approval: The approval of a preliminary
plat shall be effective for a period of one year, at the end of which time
final approval on the subdivision must have been obtained from the planning
commission, although the plat need not yet be signed and filed with the county
recorder. Any plat not receiving final approval within the period of time set
forth herein shall be null and void, and the developer shall be required to
resubmit a new application and plat for preliminary approval, subject to all
new review requirements, zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations that
may be in effect.
   F.   Zoning Regulations: Every plat shall conform to existing zoning
regulations and subdivision regulations applicable at the time of proposed
final approval, except that any plat which has received preliminary approval
shall be exempt from any subsequent amendments to the subdivision and master
planned development code rendering the plat nonconforming as to bulk or use,
provided the final approval is obtained within the one year period. (Ord., 1-
18-2005)
9-8B-4: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Following the approval of the
sketch plat in the case of a minor subdivision, or of the preliminary plat in
the case of a major subdivision, the applicant, if he wishes to proceed with
the subdivision, shall file with the planning commission an application for
final approval of a subdivision plat. The application shall:
      1.   Form: Be made on a form available at the office of the planning
commission or in letter form containing the following elements if approval to
file by letter is granted by the planning commission.
      2.   Scope And Highway Access: Include the entire subdivision, or section
thereof, which derives access from an existing state, county or local
government highway.
      3.   Copies: Be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) copies of the
subdivision plat and the three (3) sets of construction plans, as described in
these regulations.
      4.   Compliance With Prior Submissions: Comply in all respects with the
sketch plat and/or preliminary plat, as approved, amended or conditionally
approved, whichever is applicable, depending upon the classification of the
subdivision.
      5.   Submission Schedule: Be presented to the planning commission at
least four (4) weeks prior to a regular meeting of the planning commission in
order that a public hearing may be scheduled and the required notice given in
accordance with chapter 1 of this title. The date of the regular meetings of
the planning commission at which the public hearings on final approval,
including any adjourned date thereof, is closed, shall constitute the official
date of the plat for the purposes of these regulations.
      6.   Dedications:
         a.   Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to
the public of all required streets, town uses, utilities, parks and easements,
in a form approved by the town attorney; and the subdivision plat shall be
marked with a notation indicating the formal offers of dedication, as follows:
The owner, or their representative, hereby irrevocably offers for dedication to
Corinne City all the streets, land for local government uses, easements, parks
and required water and sewer utilities and easements shown on the subdivision
plat and construction plans in accordance with an irrevocable offer of
dedication.
         b.   If required by the town attorney, the applicant shall deliver a
full covenant and warranty deed to all such lands in proper form for recording,
together with a title policy for the town in the sum not less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), which sum shall be determined by the town attorney and/or
engineer before signing of the final subdivision plat.
      7.   Performance Guarantee: Be accompanied by the performance guarantee,
if required, in a form satisfactory to the town attorney and in an amount
established by the planning commission, in accordance with the provisions of
the subdivision and master planned development code, upon recommendation of the
town engineer, and shall include a provision that the principal of the
guarantee shall comply with all the terms of the resolution of final
subdivision plat approval as determined by the planning commission and shall
include, but not be limited to, the performance of all required subdivision on
site and off site improvements, and that all improvements and land included in
the irrevocable offer of dedication shall be dedicated to the town free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances on the premises.
      8.   Surrounding Owners: Be accompanied by a list of owners of property
immediately adjacent, extending one thousand feet (1,000') therefrom, or of
that directly opposite thereto, extending one thousand feet (1,000') from the
street frontage of such opposite property owners as is correct within the
knowledge of the applicant as shown on the latest tax assessment roll, together
with a stamped, addressed envelope for each such owner.
      9.   Proof Of Utility Service: Be accompanied by an inspection fee in an
amount to be determined on the basis of the provisions of these regulations, as
established by resolution, and by written assurance from the public utility
companies and improvement districts, if applicable or extended, that necessary
utilities will be installed and proof that the applicant has submitted
petitions in writing for the creation or extension of any improvement district
as required by the planning commission upon preliminary plat approval.
      10.   Outstanding Obligations: Provide evidence that all property taxes
are current and that no other town debts or obligations are outstanding and no
liens or encumbrances are placed on the property.
      11.   Title Policy: Provide a title report or commitment for title
insurance from a licensed title company and no older than thirty (30) days.
   B.   Notice Of Public Hearing: Upon receipt of formal application and all
accompanying material, the planning commission shall schedule a public hearing
for the next scheduled meeting of the planning commission for which adequate
notice, in compliance with the noticing requirements contained in chapter 1 of
this title, can be given.
   C.   Public Hearing And Determination: After the public hearing, the
planning commission shall, within thirty (30) days after closing of the public
hearing, approve, modify and approve, or disapprove the subdivision application
by resolution, which shall set forth in detail any conditions to which the
approval is subject, or reasons for disapproval. In the final resolution, the
town council shall stipulate the period of time when the performance guarantee
shall be filed or the required improvements installed, whichever is applicable;
provided, however, that no plats will be approved or released for recording
until necessary guarantees have been established in accordance with the
subdivision and master planned development code. In no event shall the period
of time stipulated by the town council for completion of required improvements
exceed two (2) years from the date of the final resolution. One copy of the
final subdivision plat shall be returned to the subdivider with the date of
approval, conditional approval, or disapproval noted thereon, and the reasons
therefor accompanying the plat.
   D.   Submission And Review: Subsequent to the resolution of the planning
commission, three (3) paper copies of the construction plans, and one copy of
the original of the subdivision plat on tracing cloth or reproducible Mylar,
and two (2) copies of the subdivision plat on sepia paper, and two (2) copies
of the subdivision plat on paper shall be submitted to the planning commission
for final review. No final approval shall be endorsed on the plat until the
town's review has indicated that all requirements of the resolution have been
met.
   E.   Vested Rights: Vesting for purposes of zoning occurs upon the filing of
a complete application; provided, however, that no vested rights shall accrue
to any plat by reason of preliminary or final approval until the actual signing
of the plat by the chairperson of the planning commission and the mayor. All
requirements, conditions or regulations adopted by the planning commission and
town council applicable to the subdivision or to all subdivisions generally
shall be deemed a condition for any subdivision prior to the time of the
signing of the final plat by the chairperson of the planning commission and
mayor. Where the planning commission or town council has required the
installation of improvements prior to signing of the final plat, the planning
commission or town council shall not unreasonably modify the conditions set
forth in the final approval. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8B-5: SIGNING AND RECORDING OF SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   Signing Of Plat:
      1.   When a guarantee of improvements is required, the chairperson of the
planning commission and mayor shall endorse approval on the plat after the
guarantee has been approved by the town council, and all the conditions of the
resolution pertaining to the plats have been satisfied.
      2.   When installation of improvements is required, the chairperson of
the planning commission and mayor shall endorse approval on the plat after all
conditions of the resolution have been satisfied and all improvements
satisfactorily completed. There shall be written evidence that the required
public facilities have been installed in a manner satisfactory to the town as
shown by a certificate signed by the town engineer and town attorney that the
necessary dedication of public lands and improvements has been accomplished.
   B.   Recording Of Plat:
      1.   The chairperson of the planning commission and the mayor will sign
the tracing cloth or reproducible Mylar original of the subdivision plat and
two (2) sepia prints of the subdivision plat. The sepia prints will be returned
to the applicant's engineer with the original given to the applicant's title
company.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the developer's licensed title
company to file the original Mylar plat with the county recorder within thirty
(30) days of the date of signature. Simultaneously with the filing of the plat,
the licensed title company shall record the agreement of dedication, together
with such legal documents as shall be required to be recorded by the town
attorney.
      3.   In addition to the formal subdivision plat requirements of the state
and the town, the Box Elder County recorder requires that an assessor's map be
submitted that is eighteen inches by eighteen inches (18" x 18") square.
Photographic or comparable reductions on sepia paper are adequate for their
purposes.
   C.   Sectionalizing Major Subdivision Plats: Prior to granting final
approval of a major subdivision plat, the planning commission and town council
may permit the plat to be divided into two (2) or more sections and may impose
such conditions upon the filing of the sections as it may deem necessary to
assure the orderly development of the plat. The planning commission and town
council may require that the performance guarantee be in such amount as is
commensurate with the section or sections of the plat to be filed and may defer
the remaining required performance guarantee principal amount until the
remaining sections of the plat are offered for filing. The developer may also
file irrevocable offers to dedicate streets and public improvements only in
those sections submitted to be filed and defer filing offers of dedication for
the remaining sections until such sections, subject to any additional
conditions imposed by the planning commission, and offers shall be granted
concurrently with final approval of the balance of the plat. The approval of
all remaining sections not filed with the county recorder shall automatically
expire unless such sections have been approved for filing by the planning
commission, all fees paid, all instruments and offers of dedication submitted
and performance guarantees approved and actually filed with the county recorder
within one year of the date of final subdivision approval of the subdivision
plat. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
ARTICLE C. ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-8C-1: Improvements And Performance Guarantee
9-8C-2: Inspection Of Improvements
9-8C-3: Escrow Deposits Or Letters Of Credit For Lot Improvements
9-8C-4: Maintenance Of Improvements
9-8C-5: Waiver Or Deferral Of Required Improvements
9-8C-6: Issuance Of Building Permit And Certificate Of Occupancy
9-8C-7: Consumer Protection Legislation And Conflicts Of Interest Statutes
9-8C-1: IMPROVEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   Completion Of Improvements: Before the plat is signed by the
chairperson of the planning commission and the mayor, all applicants shall be
required to complete, in accordance with the planning commission's decision and
to the satisfaction of the town engineer, all the street, sanitary sewer, water
and other improvements (i.e., storm drainage, trails, sidewalk, curb, gutter,
street signs, etc.), including lot improvements on the individual lots of the
subdivision, as required, specified in the final subdivision plat, and as
approved by the planning commission and the town council, and to dedicate all
applicable public improvements to the local government involved in the project,
including any water right transfers to the town, conservation easements or
dedications of public lands to land trusts, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances on the property and public improvements thus dedicated.
   B.   Performance Guarantees:
      1.   The town council, in its discretion, may waive the requirement that
the applicant complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to the
signing of the subdivision plat, and that, as an alternative, the applicant
post an acceptable guarantee (in accordance with the supplementary regulations
of this title) at the time of application for final subdivision approval in an
amount estimated by the town engineer, planning commission and town council as
sufficient to secure to the town the satisfactory construction, installation
and dedication of the uncompleted portion of required improvements. The posting
of guarantees are in lieu of actual construction and are therefore established
for the benefit of and inure to the public at large and, as such, are not to be
used for satisfying contractor or mechanics liens or other unrelated
obligations. The performance guarantee shall also secure all lot improvements
on the individual lots of the subdivision as may be required. Such performance
guarantee shall comply with all statutory requirements and shall be
satisfactory to the town attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner of
execution as set forth in the subdivision and master planned development code.
      2.   The period within which required improvements must be completed
shall be specified by the planning commission and the town council in the
resolution approving the final subdivision plat and shall be incorporated in
the guarantee and shall not in any event exceed two (2) years from date of
final approval. Such guarantee shall be approved by the town council with
surety and conditions satisfactory to them. The planning commission may, upon
proof of difficulty, recommend to the town council extension of the completion
date set forth in such guarantee for a maximum period of one additional year.
The town council may at any time during the period of such guarantee accept a
substitution of principal or sureties.
      3.   In the event the applicant's ability to post an acceptable guarantee
is dependent upon prior recordation of the plat due to requirements of the
interstate land sales act or other federal law or regulations, the town council
may authorize plat approval and recordation upon receipt from the applicant of
an executed and acknowledged agreement signed by all owners of fee, leasehold,
contract and security interests in the subject property, in the form of a
restrictive covenant that the applicant will not sell, lease or otherwise
convey any lot, parcel or portion of a lot of the subject property unless he
shall first, as a condition precedent thereto, satisfy the foregoing
requirements of this article as applicable. The agreement shall be in
recordable form, shall specifically provide that the encumbrance created shall
be deemed to be a covenant running with the land, binding on applicant's
successors and assigns, to install or guarantee installation of all required
improvements, and to pay all costs, including attorney fees, which the town may
incur in enforcing the terms and provisions of the agreement, and shall contain
the express irrevocable consent of all signers to vacation of the recorded plat
if the guarantee requirements have not been complied with within a specified
time determined by the town council of the date of recordation of the plat. The
encumbrance posed by the agreement shall only be released upon compliance by
the applicant or his successors with the provisions of this title and the
agreement.
   C.   Temporary Improvement: The applicant shall build and pay for all costs
of temporary improvements required by the planning commission or town engineer
and shall maintain the same for the period specified. Prior to construction of
any temporary facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the town a
separate suitable guarantee, in accordance with this title, for temporary
facilities, which guarantee shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be
properly constructed, maintained and removed.
   D.   Costs Of Improvements: All required improvements shall be made by the
applicant, at their expense, without reimbursement by the town or any
improvement district therein, and in accordance with related codes, fee
schedules and ordinances.
   E.   Other Governmental Units: Other governmental units which develop within
the town and to which these guarantees and contract provisions apply, may file
in lieu of said contract or guarantees a certified resolution or ordinance from
officers or agencies authorized to act in their behalf, agreeing to comply with
the provisions of this title.
   F.   Failure To Complete Improvements: For subdivisions for which no
performance guarantee has been posted, if the improvements are not completed
within the period specified by the planning commission and town council in the
resolution approving the plat, the approval shall be deemed to have expired. In
those cases where a performance guarantee has been posted and required
improvements have not been installed within the terms of such performance
guarantee, the local government may thereupon declare the guarantee to be in
default and require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the
extent of the building development at the time the guarantee is declared to be
in default.
   G.   Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance
of the town council. The approval by the planning commission of a subdivision
plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by the town
council of any street, easement or park shown on said plat. The planning
commission may require said plat to be endorsed with appropriate notes to this
effect. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8C-2: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   General Procedure And Fees: The planning commission, in consultation
with or upon the advice of the town engineer or planning commission, shall
provide for inspection of required improvements during construction and ensure
their satisfactory completion. The applicant shall, in accordance with the town
fee resolution, pay to the town an inspection fee, and the subdivision plat
shall not be signed by the chairperson of the planning commission or mayor
unless such fee has been paid. These fees shall be due and payable upon demand
of the town, and no building permits or certificates of occupancy shall be
issued until all fees are paid. If the town engineer finds upon inspection that
any of the required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with
the town construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be
responsible for completing the improvements. Wherever the cost of improvements
is covered by a performance guarantee, the applicant and the issuing company
shall be severally and jointly liable for completing the improvements according
to specifications. Prior to commencement of construction on any public
improvement or private improvement required to be built to public standards,
the developer shall first obtain a notice to proceed from the planning
commission.
   B.   Release Or Reduction Of Performance Guarantee:
      1.   Certificate Of Satisfactory Completion: Subject to maintenance
provisions contained in section
9-8C-4 of this article, the town will not accept dedication of required
improvements, or release or reduce a performance guarantee, until the town
engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements
have been satisfactorily completed and until the applicant's engineer or
surveyor has certified to the town engineer, through submission of detailed "as
built" survey plat of the subdivision, indicating location, dimensions,
materials, improvements and other information required by the planning
commission and town engineer, that the layout of the line and grade of all
public improvements is in accordance with the town approved construction plans
for the subdivision and that a title insurance policy has been furnished to the
town attorney and town engineer indicating that the improvements have been
completed, are ready for dedication to the local government, and are free and
clear of any and all liens and encumbrances. Upon such approval and
recommendation, the town council shall thereafter accept the improvements for
dedication in accordance with the established policy and procedure.
      2.   Reduction Of Performance Guarantee: A performance guarantee may be
reduced upon actual completion and/or acceptance of public improvements and
then only to the ratio that the public improvement accepted bears to the total
public improvements for the plat. In no event shall a performance guarantee be
reduced below the twenty five percent (25%) retainage of the principal amount
until total completion. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8C-3: ESCROW DEPOSITS OR LETTERS OF CREDIT FOR LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Acceptance Of Escrow Funds: Whenever, by reason of the season of the
year, any lot improvements required by the subdivision regulations cannot be
performed, the building official may, nevertheless, issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy, provided there is no danger to health, safety or
general welfare, upon accepting a cash escrow deposit or letter of credit in an
amount to be determined by the town engineer for the cost of said improvements.
The performance guarantee covering such lot improvements shall remain in full
force and effect.
   B.   Procedures On Escrow Fund: All required improvements for which escrow
monies or letters of credit have been accepted by the building official at the
time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy, shall be installed by the
developer within a period of nine (9) months from the date of deposit and
issuance of the temporary certificate of occupancy. In the event that the
improvements have not been properly installed at the end of the time period,
the building official shall give two (2) weeks' written notice to the developer
requiring him to install the same, and in the event that same are not installed
properly in the discretion of the building official, the building official may
request the town council to authorize the town to proceed to contract out the
work for the installation of the necessary improvements in a sum not to exceed
the amount of the escrow deposit or letter of credit. At the time of the
issuance of the certificate of occupancy for which escrow monies/letters of
credit are being deposited with the building official, the applicant shall
obtain and file with the building official prior to obtaining the certificate
of occupancy a notarized statement from the purchaser or purchasers of the
premises authorizing the building official to install the improvements at the
end of the nine (9) month period in the event that the same have not been duly
installed by the developer. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8C-4: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Prior To Completion: The applicant shall be required to maintain all
improvements on the individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on
streets and sidewalks until acceptance of said improvements by the town
council. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated
to the town, the town may on twelve (12) hours' notice plow the street or
effect emergency repairs and charge the same to applicant. The town will not
normally accept water improvements or street improvements or assume
responsibility for either general maintenance or snow removal until over fifty
percent (50%) of the lots within the subdivision are built upon.
   B.   Warranty After Acceptance And Dedication: The applicant shall be
required to file a maintenance guarantee with the town, prior to acceptance, in
an amount considered adequate by the town engineer and in a form satisfactory
to the town attorney, in order to assure the satisfactory condition of the
required improvements, including all lot improvements on the individual
subdivided lots, for a period of one year after the date of their acceptance by
the town and dedication of same to the town. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8C-5: WAIVER OR DEFERRAL OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Waiver: The planning commission may recommend that the town council
defer or waive at the time of final approval, subject to appropriate
conditions, the provision of any or all such improvements as, in its judgment,
are not requisite in the interests of the public health, safety and general
welfare, or which are inappropriate because of inadequacy or lack of connecting
facilities.
   B.   Deferral: Whenever it is deemed necessary by the planning commission to
defer the construction of any improvement required herein because of
incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting
facilities, or for other reasons, the applicant shall pay his share of the
costs of the future improvements to the town prior to the signing of the final
subdivision plat, or the applicant may post a guarantee ensuring completion of
said improvements upon demand of the town. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8C-6: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Dedication Before Certificate Of Occupancy: Where a performance
guarantee has been required for a subdivision, no certificate of occupancy for
any building in the subdivision shall be issued prior to the completion of the
improvements and dedication of same to the town, as required in the planning
commission and town council's final approval of the subdivision plat.
   B.   Street Improvements Guarantee: The extent of street improvements shall
be adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupant and by police and
fire equipment, prior to the issuance of any occupancy permit. The developer
shall, at the time of the dedication, submit monies in escrow or an acceptable
letter of credit to the town in a sum determined by the town engineer for the
necessary final improvement of the street.
   C.   Final Building Permits: No building permits shall be issued for the
final ten percent (10%) of lots in a subdivision, or if ten percent (10%) is
less than two (2), for the final two (2) lots of a subdivision, until all
public improvements required by the planning commission for the plat have been
fully completed and dedicated to the town. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8C-7: CONSUMER PROTECTION LEGISLATION AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST STATUTES:
   A.   Violations Prior To Permit Issuance: No building permit or certificate
of occupancy shall be granted or issued if a developer or his authorized agent
shall have violated any federal, state or local law pertaining to consumer
protection of real estate land sales, promotion or practices, or any applicable
conflicts of interest legislation with respect to the lot or parcel of land
which is the subject of the permit or certificate, until so ordered by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Revocation Of Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy: With respect to
said lot or parcel of land, in the event a building permit or certificate of
occupancy has been granted or issued, it shall be subject to revocation by the
town until so ordered otherwise by a court of competent jurisdiction; provided,
that in no event shall the rights of intervening innocent third parties in
possession of a certificate of occupancy be prejudiced by any such revocation.
   C.   Penalties For Violation: Any violation of a federal, state or local
consumer protection law (including, but not limited to, the postal
reorganization act of 1970; the federal trade commission act of 1970; the
interstate land sales full disclosure act; the truth in lending act; the
uniform commercial credit code; state "blue sky" laws; state subdivision
disclosure acts or conflicts of interest statutes, laws or ordinances), shall
be deemed a violation of these regulations and subject to all of the penalties
and proceedings as set forth in this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
ARTICLE D. REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS AND DESIGN
SECTION:
9-8D-1: General Improvements
9-8D-2: Lot Improvements
9-8D-3: Roads
9-8D-4: Drainage And Storm Sewers
9-8D-5: Water Facilities
9-8D-6: Sewerage Facilities
9-8D-7: Sidewalks, Curbs, Hiking Trails, Bike Paths, Horse Trails
9-8D-8: Other Utilities
9-8D-9: Parks, Playgrounds, Recreation Areas And Other Public Uses
9-8D-10: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
9-8D-11: Nonresidential Subdivisions
9-8D-1: GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Conformance To Applicable Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
requirements established herein, all subdivision plats shall comply with the
following laws, rules, adopted policy statements and regulations, as currently
adopted, unless otherwise approved by town council:
      1.   All applicable statutory provisions.
      2.   The subdivision and master planned development code, sensitive lands
overlay zone regulations, international building and related codes, town design
standards and specifications, and all other applicable laws of the appropriate
jurisdictions.
      3.   The official streets master plan, the town general plan, official
zone map, trails master plan, public utilities plans, land use maps and capital
improvements program of the town or any other local government having
jurisdiction in the development, including all streets, trails, drainage
systems and parks shown on the official map or general plan as adopted or
amended for the subdivision.
      4.   The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the
county health department, fire department, Box Elder school district and/or
appropriate state or federal agencies that may have jurisdiction in the
project. Compliance with these agencies' regulations must be certified by
letter to the town or signature on the applicable plats as provided for under
this title.
      5.   The rules of the state department of transportation if the
subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or connection
street.
      6.   The town design standards, construction specifications and standard
drawings as may be in force and in effect, and any other standards and
regulations adopted by the town engineer and all boards, commissions, agencies
and officials of the town.
      7.   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity
with the above guides or policy and purposes of these regulations as
established in these regulations.
   B.   Self-Imposed Restrictions: If the owner places restrictions on any of
the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by this title
or these regulations, such restrictions or reference thereto may be required to
be indicated on the subdivision plat, or the planning commission may require
that restrictive covenants be recorded with the county recorder in form to be
approved by the town attorney.
   C.   Plats Straddling Municipal Boundaries, Annexations:
      1.   Whenever a subdivision is proposed across land under county
jurisdiction, the planning commission may require the annexation of the
property involved. In general, lot lines and/or roads shall not be laid out so
as to cross municipal boundary lines. The annexation may be enlarged at the
discretion of the town to avoid creating islands or peninsulas of incorporated
territory that may be difficult to manage. All annexations must comply with the
current annexation policy declarations in force at the time the annexation is
proposed, or a new annexation policy must be prepared and approved.
      2.   If the area in the county is not annexed, the town and county shall
work together in a cooperative arrangement or through an interlocal agreement,
if necessary, to ensure that the portion of development lying in the county is
as compatible as possible with the town codes, development regulations and
general plan.
   D.   Monuments: The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in
the subdivision as required herein or as otherwise approved by the town
engineer:
      1.   Monuments shall be constructed in accordance with the town design
standards, construction specifications and standard drawings and located on
street right of way lines, at street intersections, angle points of curves and
block corners. They shall be spaced so as to be within sight of each other, the
sight lines being contained wholly within the street limits.
      2.   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground and approved by a
registered land surveyor prior to the time the planning commission recommends
approval of the final plat, unless a performance guarantee is established in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
   E.   Character Of Land And Unsuitability:
      1.   Land which the planning commission or town council finds to be
unsuitable for subdivision or development due to natural hazards, flooding,
improper drainage, fire, steep slopes, rock formations, geologic hazards,
potentially toxic wastes, adverse earth formations or topography, wetlands,
utility easements, wildlife habitats that cannot be reasonably mitigated, or
other natural features, including ridgelines and hilltops, which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall
not be subdivided or developed.
      2.   The development and land use may be made suitable if adequate
methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the town, upon
recommendation of a qualified planner or engineer hired by the developer and
approval of the town engineer, to solve or remedy the problems created by the
unsuitable land conditions. The burden of proof shall lie with the developer to
establish the viability of development in these sensitive or unsuitable areas.
Unsuitable land shall be set aside or reserved for uses as shall not involve
such a danger or severe environmental impact. Lands located in sensitive lands
areas may be further regulated by chapter 10 of this title.
   F.   Subdivision Name: The proposed name of the subdivision and all roadways
contained therein shall not duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically,
the name of any other subdivision or street in the area covered by these
regulations or in Box Elder County. The town council shall have final authority
to designate the name of the subdivision and to select street names, both of
which shall be determined at the time of sketch plat approval.
   G.   Ridgeline And Hillside Development: Protection of ridges from
development which would be visible on the skyline or from prominent areas or
designated vantage points (as per chapter 10 of this title) in the town will be
maintained. Hillside development which disturbs the rural agricultural
character of the town will be prohibited unless it can be shown that the
development and improvements will be constructed or clustered in a way to
minimize visual impacts on the town.
   H.   Open Space: Units must be clustered in the most developable and least
visually sensitive portions of the site with common open space corridors
separating clusters. This applies to both multi-family and single-family, as
well as commercial projects. The open space corridors should be designed to
coincide with significant vegetation and in many cases, should be left in the
natural state. Open space areas will be the maintenance responsibility of the
homeowners unless dedicated to the town. Open space conservation easements
dedicated in perpetuity to a town qualified land trust are encouraged to
prevent future development in valuable open space.
   I.   Roads, Utility Lines And Concurrency: Roads and all utility lines
should be designed to work with the existing grade, and cut and fill slopes
should be minimized. Roads and utilities should be placed so that disturbance
of significant vegetation is minimized. All roads and utilities, whether on or
off site, must be installed concurrently with the development.
   J.   Drainageways And Irrigation Ditches: Existing natural drainage and
irrigation ditches or rights of way should be maintained and designed around.
Notification and/or approval of irrigation companies for development may be
required in certain circumstances as determined by the town if the development
impacts irrigation works and/or access.
   K.   Soil Conditions: Consideration must be given to soil conditions and
ground water existence, and may include appropriate setbacks and conservation
requirements.
   L.   Trails And Sidewalks:
      1.   Trails and sidewalks should be provided to allow efficient internal
circulation as well as links to adjacent trail systems on other properties.
Existing trails should be maintained and incorporated into open space elements
of the project. This may include trails for pedestrian, bicycle or equestrian
circulation. Construction of new trails will be required concurrently with the
installation of other public improvements.
      2.   Although required trails may not link to adjacent trails
immediately, each trail is a vital part of an overall circulation plan. In most
cases, the homeowners will be required to maintain the trails.
   M.   Limits Of Disturbance/Vegetation Protection: A separate plan which
addresses limits of disturbance and vegetation protection during construction
and revegetation of disturbed areas will be required. This shall include
construction necessary for all project improvements, such as roads and
utilities. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-2: LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Lot Arrangement:
      1.   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the international
building code, this title, and in providing reasonable driveway access to
buildings on such lots from an approved street.
      2.   In areas that are determined to be in high fire danger areas, the
building sites shall be located or situated in areas of the development that
are less hazardous or are naturally clear of the hazardous vegetation.
   B.   Building Sites: Building sites or envelopes shall be designed which
minimize disturbance of existing vegetation.
   C.   Landscaping: The amount of common and private area available for formal
landscaping may be restricted. Agricultural uses of open space will be
encouraged using irrigation water for watering, not culinary water. Outside
irrigation creates a significant water demand if using town culinary water and
these types of irrigated areas may be limited in the design of the subdivision.
   D.   Limits Of Disturbance/Vegetation Protection: Limits of disturbance or
building pad lines shall be shown on the preliminary and final plats if the
staff determines that there is significant vegetation on the site or if it is
important to clearly designate future building locations. "Significant
vegetation" includes large trees of six inch (6") caliper or greater, groves of
five (5) or more smaller trees, or clumps of trees, bushes or shrubs covering
an area of fifty (50) square feet to the drip lines. A plan for vegetation
protection during construction and revegetation after construction will also be
required. A security will be required to be posted to ensure compliance with
the limits of disturbance plan. Guidelines are as follows:
      1.   All construction activity must be contained within the limits of
disturbance line, with the balance of the parcel remaining undisturbed. Access
to the limits of disturbance area should be along the planned driveway.
      2.   Building pad lines may be specified on some plats instead of limits
of disturbance. If building pad lines are designated, no part of the new
construction may lie outside of the building pad line; however, construction
disturbance may extend as far as ten feet (10') beyond the building pad line.
Access to the building pad should be along the planned driveway.
      3.   The planning commission has the authority to vary the platted limits
of disturbance or building pad line if such a variation results in less visual
impact or more effective preservation of mature trees. In no case, however,
should a variation in the limits of disturbance boundary result in an increase
in the amount of buildable area.
      4.   Limits of disturbance or building pad lines with definitions
approved by the staff must be reflected on the final plat. Because limits of
disturbance or building pad lines are sometimes varied by the planning
commission, the plat may not reflect the final location of the limits.
      5.   Limits of disturbance must be designated in the field prior to
commencement of excavation with fencing or other methods approved by the
planning commission.
   E.   Square Footage: Maximum dwelling or unit square footage will be
required. Smaller parcels will be expected to limit building sizes
significantly so that homes relate to the parcels upon which they are built.
Limited building heights may also be required. Both the limitations of building
square footages and building height will be required to be shown on recorded
plats for the project.
   F.   Architectural Or Design Standards: Architectural or design standards
may be required on large projects or developments which could have a
significant effect on the small rural agricultural character of the town. These
standards will be developed on a case by case basis by the town or its design
review committee (as outlined in section
9-3-30 of this title), which will result in compatible building design and
materials within the development and the respective zone. Guidelines should
include consistency of roof pitch, roofing materials, siding materials, colors,
porch details, window types and similar provisions. These guidelines should
also be compatible with adjacent developments. Buildings should be designed to
blend and harmonize with the existing environment rather than compete with it.
Development approval may be delayed a reasonable period of time while these
standards are developed by the town.
   G.   Fire Sprinkling: Fire sprinkler systems may be required of all projects
as determined by the town or the fire department, whether single-family or
multi-family. This determination is based upon an analysis of the size of
structures, vegetation surrounding the structures and location of the project
as it relates to fire department response time.
   H.   Staggered Front Setbacks: In new subdivisions, front setbacks may be
required to be staggered with consideration of existing site conditions. The
minimum front setbacks shall be consistent with the zone in which the
subdivision is proposed.
   I.   Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
of the subdivision and master planned development code. Where lots are more
than double the minimum required area for the zoning district, the planning
commission may require that such lots be arranged so as to allow further
subdivision and the opening of future streets where they would be necessary to
serve such potential lots, all in compliance with this title and these
regulations. In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles to street
lines (or radial to curving street lines) unless a variation from this rule
will give a better street or lot plan. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large
enough to allow for erection of buildings, observing the minimum front yard
setback from both streets. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out
for business, commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide
for the off street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use
and development contemplated, as established in this title.
   J.   Double Frontage Lots And Access To Lots:
      1.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reversed frontage lots
shall be avoided, except where necessary to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation.
      2.   Access From Major And Secondary Arterials: Lots shall not, in
general, derive access exclusively from an arterial or collector street. Where
driveway access from an arterial or collector street may be necessary for
several adjoining lots, the planning commission may require that such lots be
served by a combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazards on
such street. Where possible, driveways shall be designed and arranged so as to
avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on arterials or collectors.
   K.   Soil Preservation, Grading And Seeding:
      1.   Topsoil Preservation And Final Grading: No final plat approval or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued until final grading has been completed
in accordance with the approved final subdivision plat and the lots recovered
with topsoil with an average depth of at least six inches (6"), which shall
contain no particles over two inches (2") in diameter, over the entire area of
the lot, except that portion covered by buildings or included in streets, or
where the grade has not been changed or natural vegetation damaged. Topsoil
shall not be removed from residential lots or used as spoil, but shall be
redistributed so as to provide at least six inches (6") of cover on the lots
and at least four inches (4") of cover between the sidewalks and curbs, and
shall be stabilized by seeding or planting. Slope stabilization and erosion
control, as determined necessary by the town engineer, will also be required to
be installed according to the approved specification.
      2.   Lot Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings in accordance with the international building
code, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general storm
drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from any lot to adjacent lots.
      3.   Lawn-Grass Seed And Sod: All common open spaces shall be topsoiled
and revegetated in accordance with this title to avoid erosion and improve the
visual quality of the development. If revegetation is required in a
development, at a minimum, lawn-grass seed shall be sown at not less than four
(4) pounds to each one thousand (1,000) square feet of land area. In the
spring, the seed shall be sown between March 15 and May 15; and in the fall the
seed shall be sown between August 15 and September 30. All common open spaces
shall be seeded from the road shoulder edge of the unpaved right of way back to
the lot line. No final plat approval shall be issued until respreading of soil
and seeding of lawn has been completed; except that between October 1 and March
15, May 15 and August 15, the applicant shall submit an agreement in writing
signed by the developer, with a copy to the planning commission, that
respreading of soil and seeding of lawn will be done during the immediate
following planting season as set forth in this subsection and leave a cash
escrow or letter of credit for performance in such amount as shall be
determined by the planning commission in accordance with this title. Sod may be
used to comply with any requirement of seeding set forth herein.
   L.   Debris And Waste: Unless otherwise approved by the town engineer and
planning commission, no cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil,
junk, trash, rubbish or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in
any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of issuance of
a certificate of occupancy, and removal of the same shall be required prior to
issuance of any certificate of occupancy on a subdivision, nor shall any be
left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration of
the performance bond or dedication of public improvements, whichever is sooner.
   M.   Fencing: Each subdivider and/or developer shall be required to furnish
and install fences wherever the planning commission determines that a hazardous
condition may exist. The fences shall be constructed according to standards to
be established by the town engineer and shall be noted as to height and
material on the final plat. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until
said fence improvements have been duly installed.
   N.   Water Bodies And Watercourses: If a tract being subdivided contains a
water body or watercourse, or portion thereof, lot lines shall be so drawn as
to distribute the entire ownership of the water body among the fees of adjacent
lots. The planning commission may approve an alternative plan whereby the
ownership of and responsibility for safe maintenance of the water body is so
placed that it will not become a town responsibility. No more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the minimum area of a lot required under the subdivision and
master planned development code may be satisfied by land which is under water.
Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the street by
which it has access, provisions shall be made for installations of a culvert or
other structure, of design approved by the town engineer.
   O.   Performance Guarantee To Include Lot Improvements: The performance
guarantee shall include an amount to guarantee completion of all requirements
contained in this chapter, the supplemental regulations chapter of this title
and in these regulations, including, but not limited to, soil preservation,
final grading, lot drainage, landscaping, lawn-grass seeding, curb, gutter and
sidewalk, removal of debris and waste, fencing, and all other lot improvements
required by the planning commission. Whether or not a certificate of occupancy
has been issued at the expiration of the performance guarantee, the town may
enforce the provisions of the guarantee where the provisions of this section or
any other applicable law, ordinance or regulation have not been complied with.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-3: ROADS:
   A.   Frontage On Improved Roads: No subdivision shall be approved unless the
area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and/or access from an existing
public street, unless such street is:
      1.   An existing state or county highway; or
      2.   A street shown upon a plot approved by the planning commission and
recorded in the county recorder's office. Such street or highway must be
suitably improved as required by the highway rules, regulations, specifications
or orders, or be secured by a performance guarantee required under these
subdivision regulations, with the width and right of way required by these
subdivision regulations or the streets master plan. Wherever the area to be
subdivided is to utilize existing road frontage, such road shall be suitably
improved as provided hereinabove.
   B.   Grading And Improvement Plan: Roads shall be graded and improved and
conform to the town design standards, construction specifications and standard
drawings as adopted, and shall be approved as to design and specifications by
the town engineer, in accordance with the construction plans required to be
submitted prior to final plat approval. Prior to final plat approval, the town
shall make the determination as to whether each street is to be public or
private. Such status shall be shown on the plat.
   C.   Topography And Arrangement:
      1.   Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local roads
may be curved to avoid conformity of lot appearance and to discourage through
traffic. All streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of
the building sites at, or above, the grades of the streets. Grades of streets
shall conform as closely as possible to the original topography with all cut
and fill sections adequately stabilized and revegetated. A combination of steep
grades and curves, as well as large cut and fill sections, shall be avoided.
      2.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights of way as established in
the streets master plan or land use maps or zoning maps.
      3.   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to specific traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and
shopping centers, to population densities and to the pattern of existing,
proposed and future land uses.
      4.   Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the natural topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to
permit efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum
number of streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
      5.   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily
be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets or U-shaped streets shall be
encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable layout. Cul-de-sacs
are strongly discouraged.
      6.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the planning commission, such an
extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of
the subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
      7.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of transportation facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck
loading and maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize
conflict of movement between the various types of traffic, including
pedestrian.
      8.   Subdivisions shall be designed to provide adequate emergency access
to and from the development. The planning commission may require more than one
point of ingress and egress to better facilitate emergency access and escape.
The fire department must approve the street design on large subdivisions.
   D.   Blocks:
      1.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of
lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets or waterways.
      2.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block lengths in residential areas should not exceed one thousand two hundred
feet (1,200') or twelve (12) times the minimum lot width required in the zoning
district, whichever is greater, nor be less than four hundred feet (400') in
length. Wherever practicable, blocks along major arterials and collector
streets shall be not less than one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
      3.   In long blocks, the planning commission may require the reservation
of an easement through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities
or pedestrian traffic.
      4.   Pedestrianways or crosswalks, not less than ten feet (10') wide, may
be required by the planning commission through the center of blocks more than
eight hundred feet (800') long, where deemed essential to provide circulation
or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, trails or
other community facilities. Blocks designed for industrial or commercial uses
shall be of such length and width as may be determined suitable by the planning
commission for prospective use.
   E.   Access To Highway, Arterial Or Collector Streets: Where a subdivision
borders on or contains an existing or proposed highway, arterial or collector,
the planning commission may require that access to such streets be limited by
one of the following means:
      1.   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the highway, arterial or
collector and front onto a parallel local street; no direct access shall be
provided from the primary arterial or collector, and screening shall be
provided in a strip of land along the rear property line of such lots.
      2.   A series of U-shaped streets, or short loops entered from and
designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with the rear
lines of their terminal lots backing onto the highway, arterial or collector
roadway.
   F.   Road Names: The sketch plat as submitted shall not indicate any names
upon proposed streets. The developer, upon consent of the planning commission
and town council, shall name all roads at the time of preliminary approval. The
local postmaster shall be consulted prior to planning commission approval.
Names shall be sufficiently different in sound and in spelling from other road
names in Box Elder County or the town, so as not to cause confusion. A road
which is or is planned as a continuation of an existing road shall bear the
same name.
   G.   Road Regulatory Signs: The applicant shall erect or post acceptable
guarantees ensuring each road sign required by the town engineer at all road
intersections. All road signs shall be installed before issuance of
certificates of occupancy for any residence on the streets approved. Street
name signs are to be placed at all intersections within and abutting the
subdivision, the type, design and location of which to be approved by the town
engineer. Street signs shall be designed according to town specifications and
standards.
   H.   Streetlights: Installation of streetlights shall be required in
accordance with town design and specification standards or as designated and
located by the planning commission or planning staff and shall be approved by
the town engineer.
   I.   Reserve Or Protection Strips: The creation of reserve or protection
strips may be permitted adjacent to a proposed street in such a manner as to
deny access from adjacent property to such street, provided such a strip is
clearly shown on both the preliminary and final subdivision plat.
   J.   Construction Of Roads And Dead End Roads:
      1.   Construction Of Roads: The arrangement of streets shall provide for
the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
protection, for efficient provision of utilities, and where such continuation
is in accordance with the streets master plan. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must be a dead end street temporarily, the right of
way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary turnabout shall be
provided on all temporary dead end streets, with the notation on the
subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right of way shall revert
to abutters whenever the street is continued. The planning commission may limit
the length of temporary dead end streets in accordance with the design
standards of these regulations.
      2.   Dead End Roads (Permanent): Where a road does not extend to the
boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by the
planning commission for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall
normally not be nearer to such boundary than fifty feet (50'). However, the
planning commission may require the reservation of an appropriate easement to
accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic, snow removal/storage or
utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the end of a permanent
dead end street in accordance with construction standards and specifications.
For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police and fire
protection, permanent dead end streets shall, in general, be limited in length
to three hundred fifty feet (350').
   K.   General Design Standards: In order to provide for roads of suitable
location, width and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford
satisfactory access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation and road
maintenance equipment, and to coordinate roads so as to compose a convenient
system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the design standards
for roads are hereby required to be in compliance with town design standards,
construction specifications and standard drawings, and the streets master plan,
as adopted or as may otherwise be determined by the town engineer and planning
commission, and town council.
   L.   Road Surfacing And Improvement: After sewer and water and other
applicable utilities have been installed by the developer, the applicant shall
construct curbs and gutters (if required) and shall surface or cause to be
surfaced roadways to the widths prescribed in the pertinent regulations. Said
surfacing shall be of such character as is suitable for the expected traffic.
Types of pavement shall be determined by the town engineer. Adequate provision
shall be made for culverts, drains and bridges. All road pavement, shoulders,
drainage improvements and structures, curbs, turnarounds and sidewalks shall
conform to all construction standards and specifications adopted by the town
and shall be incorporated into the construction plans required to be submitted
by the developer for plat approval.
   M.   Excess Right Of Way: Right of way widths in excess of the standards
referenced in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
shall not be in excess of three to one (3:1), unless specifically approved by
the town engineer.
   N.   Intersections:
      1.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an angle
within ten degrees (10°) of perpendicular is required. An oblique street should
be curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right
angles for at least one hundred feet (100') therefrom. Not more than two (2)
streets shall intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the
planning commission.
      2.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practical, coincide with any intersections on the opposite side
of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred
fifty feet (150') shall not be permitted. Where streets intersect major
streets, their alignment shall be continuous. Intersections of major streets
shall be at least eight hundred feet (800') apart.
      3.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two (2) local streets
shall be at least twenty feet (20'); and minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving a collector street shall be at least twenty five feet (25'). Alley
intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block shall have the
corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe
vehicular movement.
      4.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two percent (2%)
slope for a distance of sixty feet (60'), measured from the nearest right of
way line of the intersecting street.
      5.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that could create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right of way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
      6.   The cross slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be
three percent (3%) or less.
   O.   Bridges: Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by
the planning commission, shall be constructed at the full expense of the
applicant without reimbursement from the town. The sharing of expense for the
construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant as determined
by the planning commission, will be fixed by special agreement between the town
council and the applicant.
   P.   Road Dedications And Reservations:
      1.   New Perimeter Streets: Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. The planning
commission may authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves
and dedicates the entire required street right of way width.
      2.   Widening And Realignment Of Existing Roads: Where a subdivision
borders an existing narrow road or when the streets master plan, land use maps
or zoning maps indicate plans for realignment or widening a road that would
require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant may be
required to improve and dedicate at his/her expense such areas for widening or
realignment of such roads that are necessary and for the benefit of the
subdivision. Such frontage roads and streets shall be improved and dedicated by
the applicant at his own expense to the full width as required by these
subdivision regulations. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-4: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   General Requirements: The planning commission shall not recommend for
approval any plat of a subdivision which does not make adequate provision for
storm or flood water runoff channels or catch basins, in their opinion. Plans
shall be reviewed for compliance with town design standards, construction
specifications and standard drawings, or other standards as may be adopted. The
storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of the sanitary
sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the rational
method, or other methods as approved by the town engineer, and a copy of design
computations shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets shall be provided so
that surface water is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a
distance of more than six hundred feet (600') in the gutter. When calculations
indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, catch basins shall be
used to intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be
shown for each and every lot and block.
   B.   Location: The applicant may be required by the planning commission,
upon the recommendation of the town engineer, to carry away by pipe or open
channel any spring or surface water that may exist either previously to, or as
a result of, the subdivision. Such drainage facilities shall be located in the
road right of way where feasible, or in perpetual unobstructed easements of
appropriate widths, and shall be constructed in accordance with the
construction standards and specifications.
   C.   Accessibility To Public Storm Sewers:
      1.   Underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed throughout the
subdivision and be conducted to an approved outfall. Inspection of facilities
shall be conducted by the town engineer.
      2.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually,
as determined by the town engineer and the planning commission, the developer
shall make arrangements for future storm water disposal by a public utility
system at the time the plat receives final approval. Provision for such
connection shall be incorporated by inclusion in the performance guarantee
required for the subdivision plat.
   D.   Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage Areas: A culvert or other drainage
facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential runoff
from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The developer shall hire a qualified engineer to determine the
necessary size of the facility, based on the provisions of the construction
standards and specifications, assuming conditions of maximum potential
watershed development permitted by this title and the general or master plan.
The town engineer must review and approve the design.
   E.   Effect On Downstream Drainage Areas: The town engineer shall also
require the developer's qualified engineer to study the effect of each
subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the
subdivision. Town storm drainage studies, together with such other studies as
shall be appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it
is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the development of the
subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the
planning commission may withhold approval of the subdivision until provision
has been made for the improvement of said potential condition in such sum as
the planning commission and town engineer shall determine. No subdivision shall
be approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to an approved drainage,
watercourse or facility.
   F.   Areas Of Poor Drainage: Whenever a plat is submitted for an area which
is subject to flooding, the planning commission, upon recommendation of the
town engineer, may approve such subdivision; provided, that the applicant fills
the affected area of said subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place the
elevation of streets and lots at a minimum of twelve inches (12") above the
elevation of the maximum probable flood, as determined by the town engineer.
The plat of such subdivision shall provide for an overflow zone along the bank
of any stream or watercourse, in a width which shall be sufficient in time of
high water to contain or move the water, and no fill shall be placed in the
overflow zone, nor shall any structure be erected or placed therein. The
boundaries of the overflow zone shall be subject to approval by the town
engineer. Development in areas of extremely poor drainage will not be allowed.
   G.   Floodplain Areas: The planning commission may, upon recommendation of
the town engineer and when it deems it necessary for the health, safety or
welfare of the present and future population of the area and necessary to the
conservation of water, drainage and sanitary facilities, prohibit the
subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the floodplain of
any stream or drainage course. These floodplain areas should be preserved from
any and all destruction or damage resulting from clearing, grading or dumping
of earth, waste material or stumps, except at the discretion of the planning
commission.
   H.   Dedication Of Drainage Easements:
      1.   General Requirements: Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel, river or stream, there shall be provided a
storm water easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially to the
lines of such watercourse, and of such width and construction, or both, as will
be adequate for the purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the
drainage be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate
width for maximum potential volume of flow.
      2.   Drainage Easements:
         a.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights of way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least twenty feet (20') in width for such
drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines
and with satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the
plat. Drainage easements shall be carried from the road to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
         b.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         c.   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a
distance to be determined by the planning commission and town engineer.
         d.   Low lying lands along watercourses, including the Bear River
bottoms, subject to flooding or overflowing during storm periods, whether or
not included in areas for dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their
natural state as drainageways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding
shall not be computed in determining the number of lots to be utilized for
average density procedure, nor for computing the area requirement of any lot.
(Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-5: WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirement: Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant
to extend or create a safe water supply system for the purpose of providing a
water supply capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection. All
improvements, whether on or off site, shall be constructed and paid by the
developer. The impact of the development on the town water system must be
determined by the impact analysis process as outlined in chapter 1 of this
title.
   B.   Existing Systems: Where a public water main is accessible, the
subdivider shall install adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants)
subject to the specifications of the state and town. All water mains shall be
at least eight inches (8") in diameter.
   C.   Approval: Water main extensions and water facilities improvements shall
be approved by the town engineer and the town council.
   D.   Guarantees: To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants,
all water storage and supply improvements, and the boundary lines of proposed
improvement districts, indicating all improvements proposed to be served, shall
be shown on the preliminary plat, and the cost of installing the same, whether
on or off the development, shall be included in the performance guarantee to be
furnished by the developer.
   E.   Ownership Of Facilities: Prior to approval of the subdivision plat by
the town engineer, a determination shall be made by the town council and
planning commission as to the location and extent of facilities to be
maintained by the town. Private facilities may be required to be so noted on
the plat and will be the responsibility of the developer or owner of the
development.
   F.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions.
Fire hydrants shall be located no more than five hundred feet (500') apart and
shall be approved by the fire department and town engineer in accordance with
the international fire code or a more stringent code if a conflict exists
between town and the international fire code. In some instances, the town may
determine that due to wildland fire potential, hydrants will be required to be
located no more than three hundred feet (300') apart. To eliminate future
street openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the
fire hydrants themselves and all other water supply improvements, shall be
installed before any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat.
   G.   Proof Of Water: If the applicant is dedicating or providing water
rights to the project or the town, the planning commission shall require
adequate proof of ownership of "wet" water (as opposed to paper only) in a
quantity, quality, annual duration or availability throughout the entire year.
The proof must be provided in a legal form or title policy that is acceptable
to the town and/or the town attorney. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
   H.   Secondary Water:
      1.   As a condition of approval of the subdivision, the town council
shall require each developer which has not received preliminary approval prior
to adoption of this subsection, to provide 1.42 acre feet of usable secondary
water per acre of land, or the equivalent share of capital stock in the Bear
River Canal Company, per dwelling unit or residential lot, whichever is the
greatest, to the town. This water is intended to assist the town in meeting the
secondary water supply needs brought on by the development. Those developments
that have received preliminary approval prior to adoption of this subsection
shall make available to the town for purchase at the appraised value, all water
stock and water rights existing on the land to be developed.
      2.   At the discretion of the town council, if all avenues of acquiring
water rights are exhausted, the town council may waive the requirement for the
acquisition of water described in subsection H1 of this section.
      3.   As a condition of approval of the subdivision, the town council
shall require each developer to install a secondary water system. It is the
town's intent to develop a secondary system. Connection to the town system will
be made when developed. (Ord., 1-2-2007)
9-8D-6: SEWERAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in the manner prescribed by the town construction standards and
specifications. All plans shall be designed in accordance with current town,
state and EPA rules, regulations and standards. Necessary action shall be taken
by the applicant to extend sanitary sewer service for the purpose of providing
sewerage facilities to the subdivision. Off site requirements may be necessary
to meet impacts imposed by the development on the town sewer facilities. The
impact analysis required in chapter 1 of this title may be necessary for
approval of the development by the planning commission. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
   B.   Residential And Nonresidential Subdivisions: Sanitary sewerage
facilities shall connect with the public sanitary sewer at sizes required by
the town and the town engineer. No individual disposal system or treatment
plants (private or group disposal systems) shall be permitted in the part of
the town serviced by the sewer system. Sanitary sewerage facilities (including
the installation of laterals in the right of way and dedication of easements)
shall be subject to the town specifications, rules, regulations and guidelines
and this title. All major subdivisions are required to extend the system to
their development if their residential density is greater than one residence
per five (5) acres or the lots have less than one hundred ten feet (110') of
frontage on a street. Approved septic systems are allowed for subdivisions that
have a density lower than this, or are minor subdivisions, and meet Box Elder
County health department approval as evidenced in writing. (Ord., 1-18-2005;
amd. 2007 Code)
   C.   Future Sewer Accessibility Requirements: If a subdivision has more than
three (3) developable lots, including any future phases and, in the town's
opinion, the project is in an area that may be serviced with a sewer system in
the next ten (10) years, the town council or planning commission may require
sewer improvements to be installed in the subdivision. These improvements must
be constructed to current town standards, properly capped, marked as to their
termination in the lots (with acceptable as built drawings provided to the
town) and be made separate from the septic system in place or proposed. This
system would make it more feasible and less costly and troublesome on the
residents of the subdivision in the future when the service would be available
and/or the connection would become mandatory. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-7: SIDEWALKS, CURBS, HIKING TRAILS, BIKE PATHS, HORSE TRAILS:
   A.   Location: Sidewalks, if required, shall be included within the
dedicated nonpavement right of way of all roads unless an alternate location
has been specifically approved by the planning commission. In many cases,
pedestrian paths separate from the road right of way may be preferable due to
snow removal or visual concerns.
   B.   Curbs: Concrete curbs are required for all roads where sidewalks are
required by those regulations and run along roads or where required in the
discretion of the planning commission.
   C.   Improvements: Sidewalks shall be improved as required in these
regulations and shall be designed to best facilitate their type of use and
serve the public interest and safety.
   D.   Pedestrian Paths: Trails, pedestrian paths and bike paths shall be
related appropriately to require a minimum of site disturbance, permit
efficient drainage, and provide safe access.
   E.   Other Trails: Walking and hiking trails, bike paths and horse trails
shall be provided by the developer in accordance with the town trails master
plan, if adopted, and/or where otherwise necessary as determined by the
planning commission. Trails should connect traffic generators such as schools,
recreation facilities, commercial areas, parks and other significant natural
features. Such trails shall be built to town specifications, and easements
shall be dedicated for such trails. The trails shall be constructed at the time
of road construction, unless the planning commission determines otherwise, in
which case cash deposits shall be required pursuant to this title for
improvements. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-8: OTHER UTILITIES:
   A.   Location: Utility facilities, including, but not limited to, gas,
electric power, telephone and cable TV, shall be located underground in new
subdivisions wherever underground location does not violate safety standards of
the particular utility and where such underground location does not impose any
potential additional maintenance burden on town streets and water/sewer
personnel, in the opinion of the town council and planning commission.
Underground service connections for water and sewer shall be installed to the
street property line of each platted lot at the expense of the subdivider and
shall be marked on the surface, as shall casings or conduits for all other
underground utilities as determined by the town engineer.
   B.   Easements:
      1.   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities
(private and municipal) if the utilities are to be connected from the rear;
such easements shall be at least ten feet (10') wide. Proper coordination shall
be established by the subdivider between the applicable utility companies for
the establishment of utility facilities and easements to adjoining properties.
      2.   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least ten feet (10') in width shall be provided along
side lot lines with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines. All
easements shall be indicated on the plat.
      3.   Where necessary to ensure proper access and maintenance, easement
widths shall be increased as required by the town engineer. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-9: PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, RECREATION AREAS AND OTHER PUBLIC USES:
   A.   Recreation Standards:
      1.   The planning commission, in its review of each major subdivision,
shall require that land be reserved and improvements installed for parks and
playgrounds or other recreation purposes in locations designated on any master
plans, or otherwise where such reservations would be appropriate and the park
would benefit the subdivision and its residents. Each reservation shall be of
suitable size, dimension, topography and general character, and shall have
adequate access for the particular purposes envisioned by the planning
commission. The area shall be shown and marked on the plat "Reserved for Park
and/or Recreation Purposes". The developer will also be required to install
improvements to the recreation areas. These improvements will be built to town
specifications.
      2.   When recreation areas are required, the planning commission shall
determine the number of acres to be reserved, using the following formula as a
minimum: providing one acre of recreation area for developments up to fifty
(50) single-family dwelling units, and one acre for every fifty (50) units or
fraction thereafter. This calculation equates to eight hundred seventy four
(874) square feet per single-family dwelling unit (same amount available to
town residents as when the ordinance codified herein was approved). The
planning commission shall also determine the level of improvements required.
All required improvements shall be built to town specifications. The planning
commission may refer such proposed reservations to the town official or
department in charge of operating parks and recreation for recommendation. The
developer shall dedicate all such recreation areas and facilities to the town
as a condition of final subdivision plat approval.
   B.   Minimum Size Of Park And Playground Reservations: In general, land
reserved for recreation purposes shall have an area of at least one acre. When
the percentages from the above formula would create less than one acre, the
planning commission may require that the recreation area be located at a
suitable place on the edge of the subdivision so that additional land may be
added at such time as the adjacent land is subdivided. In no case shall an area
of less than one acre be reserved for recreation purposes if it will be
impractical or impossible to secure additional lands in order to increase its
area. This smaller amount will be accepted only when it is on the edge of the
subdivision or when the staff feels that the reduced size will result in a
functional and usable recreation site.
   C.   Recreation Sites: Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a
character and location suitable for use as a playground, play field or for
other recreation purposes, and shall be relatively level and dry, and shall be
improved by the developer to the town standards required by the planning
commission, which improvements shall be included in the performance guarantee.
The planning commission may refer any subdivision proposed to contain a
dedicated park to the town official in charge of parks and recreation for a
recommendation. All land to be reserved for dedication to the town for park
purposes shall have prior approval of the town council and shall be shown
marked on the plat "Reserved for Park and/or Recreation Purposes".
   D.   Alternative Procedure For Subdivisions Of Fewer Than Twenty Five Lots:
Subdivisions, including commercial or agricultural subdivisions, with fewer
than twenty five (25) lots would result in a land area of less than one acre to
be reserved for recreation facilities. In this case, the developer may pay an
in lieu of fee in those cases where the in lieu of fee is specifically approved
by or required by the planning commission. Fees shall be paid on a per unit
rate and be based upon fair market value as indicated in the town adopted fee
schedule.
   E.   Applicability To Land Utilizing Average Density: Any subdivision plat
in which the principle of average density or flexible zoning has been utilized
shall not be exempt from the provisions of this section, except as to such
portion of land which is actually dedicated to the town for park and recreation
purposes.
   F.   Other Recreation Reservations: The provisions of this section are
minimum standards. None of the subsections above shall be construed as
prohibiting a developer from reserving other land for recreation purposes in
addition to the requirements of this section.
   G.   Other Public Uses:
      1.   Plat To Provide For Public Uses: Except when an applicant utilizes a
master planned development concept in which land is set aside by the developer
as required by the provision of the subdivision and master planned development
code, whenever a tract to be subdivided incudes a school, recreation use or
other public use as indicated on the master plan, or any portion thereof, such
space shall be suitably incorporated by the applicant into the sketch plat.
After proper determination of its necessity by the planning commission and the
appropriate town official or other public agency involved in the acquisition
and use of each such site, and a determination has been made to acquire the
site by the public agency, the site shall be suitably incorporated by the
applicant into the preliminary and final plats.
      2.   Referral To Public Body: The planning commission shall refer the
sketch plat to the public body concerned with acquisition for its consideration
and report. The planning commission may propose alternate areas for such
acquisition and shall allow the public body or agency thirty (30) days for
reply. The agency's recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map showing
the boundaries and area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the
time required to complete the acquisition.
      3.   Notice Of Property Owner: Upon receipt of an affirmative report, the
planning commission shall notify the property owner and shall designate on both
the preliminary and final plats that area proposed to be acquired by the public
body. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-10: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
Existing features which add natural value or historical amenities to the
community shall be retained. Buildings shall be sited in a manner that
preserves significant views. Ridges should be protected from development which
would be visible on the skyline from prominent areas or vantage points (as
defined in chapter 10 of this title). Existing vegetation should also be
retained as much as possible. Vegetation protection shall be required during
construction so that disturbance is limited. Existing features such as
watercourses, rivers, irrigation works, wetlands, historic sites, critical
meadowlands, important vistas and other irreplaceable assets shall be preserved
in the design of the subdivision. All trees on the plat required to be retained
shall be preserved, and all trees where required shall be welled and protected
against change of grade. The sketch plat shall show the number, size and
location of existing trees as required by these regulations, and shall further
indicate all those marked for retention, and the location of all proposed trees
along the street side of each lot. Any project falling within the sensitive
lands overlay zone may be subject to additional requirements and regulations as
outlined in the sensitive lands regulations contained in chapter 10 of this
title. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8D-11: NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
agricultural, commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision
with respect to such land shall make such provision as the planning commission
may require. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth in the subdivision and master
planned development code. Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision
plat approval may proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the planning
commission. A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the
requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards as are
required by the planning commission, and shall conform to the proposed land use
and standards established in the general plan, streets master plan, land use
maps, subdivision and master planned development code, and town design
standards, construction specifications and standard drawings.
   B.   Standards: In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission that
the street, parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the
uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed:
      1.   Proposed agricultural or industrial parcels shall be suitable in
area and dimensions to the types of agricultural or industrial development
anticipated.
      2.   Street rights of way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be placed thereupon.
      3.   Special requirements may be imposed by the town with respect to
street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      4.   Special requirements may be imposed by the town with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and storm water
drainage.
      5.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip and/or fencing when necessary or required.
      6.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck or
equipment traffic, shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent
existing or potential residential areas or uses. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
ARTICLE E. SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED
SECTION:
9-8E-1: Sketch Plat
9-8E-2: Preliminary Plat
9-8E-3: Construction Plans
9-8E-4: Final Subdivision Plat
9-8E-1: SKETCH PLAT:
Sketch plats submitted to the planning commission, prepared in pen or pencil,
shall be drawn to an engineer's scale of not more than one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100'), and shall show the following information. These
requirements are the minimum. Other information may be required by the planning
commission as the need dictates. Impact analyses and market analyses are to be
submitted with the sketch plat for major subdivisions and master planned
developments.
   A.   Name:
      1.   Name of subdivision, if property is within an existing subdivision.
      2.   Proposed name, if not within a previously platted subdivision. The
proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any plat previously recorded in
Box Elder County.
      3.   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen. (This is
commonly the name by which the property is locally known.)
   B.   Ownership:
      1.   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner or
agent of property, a property report, and citation of last instrument conveying
title to each parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving
grantor, grantee, date, and land records reference.
      2.   Citation of any existing legal rights of way or easements affecting
the property.
      3.   Existing covenants on the property, if any.
      4.   Name and address, including telephone number, of the professional
person responsible for subdivision design, the design of public improvements
and for surveys.
   C.   Description: Location of property by government lot, section, township,
range and county, graphic scale, north arrow and acres.
      1.   Location of property lines, existing easements, burial grounds, mine
or known geologic hazards, railroad rights of way, watercourses, and existing
wooded areas or trees eight inches (8") or more in diameter, measured four feet
(4') above ground level; location, width, and names of all existing or platted
streets or other public ways within or immediately adjacent to the tract; names
of adjoining property owners from the latest assessment rolls within one
thousand feet (1,000') of any perimeter boundary of the subdivision.
      2.   Location, sizes, elevations and slopes of existing sewers, water
mains, culverts and other underground structures within the tract and
immediately adjacent thereto; existing permanent building and utility poles on
or immediately adjacent to the site and utility rights of way.
      3.   Approximate topography, at the same scale as the sketch plat with at
least five foot (5') contour intervals.
      4.   The approximate location and widths of proposed streets.
      5.   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing municipal water
supply and sanitary sewage systems; preliminary provisions for collecting and
discharging surface water drainage.
      6.   The approximate location, dimensions and areas of all proposed or
existing lots.
      7.   The approximate location, dimensions and areas of all parcels of
land proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use,
or for the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision.
      8.   The location of temporary stakes to enable the planning commission
to find and appraise features of the sketch plat in the field.
      9.   Whenever the sketch plat covers only a part of an applicant's
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, at the scale of no more than
one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), a sketch in pen or pencil of the
proposed subdivision area, together with its proposed street and trail system,
and an indication of the probable future street and drainage system of the
remaining portion of the tract.
      10.   A vicinity map showing streets and other general development of the
surrounding area. The sketch plat shall show all school and improvement
district lines with the zoning districts properly designated.
      11.   A plan designating limits of disturbance for each parcel and for
subdivision improvements, such as utilities and roads. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8E-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
These preliminary plat requirements are the minimum. Other information may be
required by the planning commission as the need dictates.
   A.   General: The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed land
surveyor at an engineer's scale not more than one inch equals one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), may be prepared in pen or pen and pencil, and the sheets shall be
numbered in sequence if more than one sheet is used, and shall be of such size
as is acceptable for filing in the office of the county recorder, but shall not
be larger than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). It should
be noted that the map prepared for the preliminary plat may also become the
final subdivision plat and, therefore, should be drawn on tracing cloth or
reproducible Mylar.
   B.   Features: The preliminary plat shall show the following:
      1.   The location of property with respect to surrounding property and
streets, the names of all adjoining property owners of record or the names of
adjoining developments, and the names of adjoining streets.
      2.   The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property to
be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot.
      3.   The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies, rivers,
streams and other pertinent features such as swamps, buildings, parks,
cemeteries, drainage or irrigation ditches or bridges, or as determined by the
planning commission.
      4.   The location and width of all existing and proposed streets and
easements, alleys, trails and other public ways, and easement and proposed
street rights of way and building setback lines.
      5.   The location, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing lots.
      6.   The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set aside
for park or playground use, or other public or private reservations and open
space dedications with designation of the purpose thereof, types and
conditions, if any, of the dedication, preservation or reservation.
      7.   The name and address of the owner or owners of land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider if other than the owner, and
the name of the land surveyor.
      8.   The date of the map, approximate true north point, scale and title
of the subdivision.
      9.   Sufficient data acceptable to the town engineer to determine readily
the location, bearing and length of all lines, and to reproduce such lines upon
the ground, the location of all proposed monuments.
      10.   Names of the subdivision and all new streets, subject to the
approval of the planning commission.
      11.   Indication of the use of any lot whether single-family, two-family,
multi-family, agricultural, commercial or open space, as well as all uses other
than those specified that are proposed by the subdivider.
      12.   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered. Outlots
shall be lettered in alphabetical order.
      13.   All information required on sketch plat should also be shown on the
preliminary plat, and the following notation shall also be shown:
         a.   Explanation of drainage easements, if any.
         b.   Explanation of site easements, if any.
         c.   Explanation of reservations and conservation easements.
         d.   Owner's dedication, if any, and consent to record as required by
applicable state law.
      14.   Form for endorsements by planning commission chairperson and mayor,
as well as signature blocks for the town attorney, town engineer, fire
department, Box Elder County surveyor, and Box Elder school district.
      15.   Any restrictions or requirements necessary to ensure solar access
shall be defined, as well as any view easements designated.
      16.   All utility facilities existing and proposed throughout the
subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat or on accompanying
engineering plans.
      17.   The lack of information under any item specified herein or improper
information supplied by the applicant, shall be cause for disapproval of a
preliminary plat.
      18.   A plan designating limits of disturbance or building pads and
utilities corridors, and connections for each parcel and for subdivision
improvements, such as utilities and roads. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8E-3: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
Construction plans shall be prepared for all required improvements. Plans shall
be drawn at a scale of no more than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'), and
map sheets shall be of the same size as the preliminary plat. These
requirements are the minimum. Other information may be required by the planning
commission as the need dictates. The following shall be shown:
   A.   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along centerlines of
all roads. Where a proposed road intersects an existing road or roads, the
elevation along the centerline of the existing road or roads within one hundred
feet (100') of the intersection shall be shown. Approximate radii of all
curves, lengths of tangents, and central angles on all streets.
   B.   The planning commission may require, upon recommendation by the town
engineer, where steep slopes exist, that typical cross sections of all proposed
streets be shown.
   C.   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical sidewalks,
drainage easements, irrigation ditches, servitudes, rights of way, manholes and
catch basins; the location of street trees, streetlights and street signs; the
location, size and invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers,
storm water drains and fire hydrants, showing connections to any existing or
proposed utility systems; and exact location and size of all water, gas or
other underground utilities or structures.
   D.   Location, size, elevation and other appropriate description of any
existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing
streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies or impoundments,
streams, and other pertinent features such as swamps, wetlands, buildings,
features noted on the official zoning map or master plans, at the point of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities within the subdivision, and
each tree with a diameter of eight inches (8") or more, measured four feet (4')
above ground level. The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the
date of the survey, and the approximate high and low water elevations of such
lakes or streams. All elevations shall be referred to the town engineer or USGS
datum plane. If the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream, the distances
and bearings of a meander line established not less than twenty feet (20') back
from the ordinary high water mark of such waterways.
   E.   Topography at the same scale as the sketch plat with a contour interval
of two feet (2'), referred to sea level datum. All datum provided shall be the
latest applicable U.S. geodetic survey datum and should be so noted on the
plat.
   F.   All other specifications, details and references required by town
design standards, construction specifications and standard drawings, if
adopted, including a site grading plan for the entire subdivision.
   G.   Notation of approval by the owner, town engineer and water/sewer
department.
   H.   Title, name, address, signature and seal of the professional engineer
preparing the plans, and date, including revision dates.
   I.   A limits of disturbance and revegetation plan. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-8E-4: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   Requirements: The final subdivision plat shall be presented in India
ink on tracing cloth or reproducible Mylar at the same scale and contain the
same information, except for any changes or additions required by resolution of
the planning commission, as shown on the preliminary plat. The preliminary plat
may be used as the final subdivision plat if it meets these requirements and is
revised in accordance with the planning commission's resolution. These
requirements are the minimum. Other information may be required by the planning
commission as the need dictates. All revision dates must be shown as well as
the following:
      1.   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, and locations of any
building lines proposed to be established in this manner, if required by the
planning commission in accordance with these regulations.
      2.   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners or
other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend. The legend for metal monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the
diameter, length and weight per linear foot of the monuments.
   B.   Preparation: The final subdivision plat shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor licensed by the state and certified as to the same on
the plat. If it has been more than one hundred eighty (180) days since the
sketch plat market analysis, an updated market analysis and phase plan must be
completed before the final plat can be approved. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
CHAPTER 9
MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-9-0: Scope Of Regulations
9-9-1: Purpose And Objectives
9-9-2: Uses
9-9-3: Density
9-9-4: Minimum Area Requirements
9-9-5: Preliminary Development Plan
9-9-6: Final Plat And Development Plans
9-9-7: Development Standards And Requirements
9-9-8: Cluster Subdivision
9-9-9: Manufactured Housing
9-9-10: Twin Home Developments
9-9-11: Zero Lot Line Developments
9-9-12: Multi-Family Apartment Developments
9-9-13: Minor Master Planned Development
9-9-0: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter detail the process and submission of
master planned developments to the town. This type of development offers more
flexibility in the design and placement of structures and emphasizes open
agricultural space, maintaining the spirit of the town general plan. (Ord., 1-
18-2005)
9-9-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   The purpose of the master planned development (MPD) is to encourage
imaginative and efficient utilization of land in residential development and to
further the objectives of the town general plan.
   B.   By providing for greater flexibility in the location of buildings on
the land, it also allows the consolidation of development and the vast
expansion of permanent, common, recreational and agricultural type open spaces,
the clustering of dwelling units and the efficient use of those public
facilities required in connection with new residential development. These
provisions are intended to create attractive and desirable environments within
the residential and agricultural areas of the town.
   C.   This chapter should be considered an enhancement to the regulations of
chapter 8, articles A through E of this title, and more particularly section
9-8D-1 of this title. These enhancements are negotiable between the developer
and the town. The effective and innovative application of these standards may
result in bonuses to the density and structural placement regulations found in
chapter 7, articles A through E, and elsewhere in this title. All MPD proposals
must also demonstrate that they can meet the minimum requirements or conditions
of any underlying zone or other regulations contained in this title. An MPD
cannot be used as an instrument or vehicle to accomplish a primary use that
would have been prohibited if the project were to be submitted and applied for
as a conventional subdivision.
   D.   The planning commission and/or town council may accept or reject an MPD
proposal on the basis of the quality of materials used in the project, as well
as the architectural design and serviceability of the project. All MPD
developments shall be designed to "fit in" and protect the character of the
neighborhood and rural atmosphere of the town. In considering MPD applications,
every effort will be made to see that the neighborhood and town are enhanced by
the project.
   E.   Any proposed subdivision project involving more than five (5) acres, or
having more than twenty (20) residential units or lots divided must be
submitted as an MPD, unless specifically exempted by an appeal to the board of
adjustment. Subdivisions containing fewer than four (4) units (minor
subdivisions) may be exempt from this requirement, unless the applicant wishes
to be reviewed as a minor MPD as per section
9-9-13 of this chapter.
   F.   Complete planning of the entire project in all of its phases is
critical in the proper application of the MPD process. All MPD regulations are
in addition to the subdivision regulations of chapter 8, articles A through E,
of this title and the MPD may be processed concurrently with the subdivision
approval if the applicant wishes. Also, refer to chapter 4 of this title for
planning commission MPD approval procedures and issues as well as those of this
chapter. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-9-2: USES:
An MPD may be allowed in all residential and agricultural zones as designated
herein, and the MPD development plan shall become supplementary to the
provisions of the zones in which the MPD is located, although the town shall
not be required to enforce any of the restrictive covenants recorded pursuant
to this chapter.
   A.   Zones Allowing Attached Units: Attached units shall be allowed in all
residential zones, except agricultural (A1) zone. Attached units are limited to
a density of one attached unit per five (5) acres. No density bonuses are
available for attached units.
   B.   Types Of Developments: Master planned developments include cluster
subdivisions, planned developments, twin homes, condominiums, planned
developments using manufactured housing, and combinations of housing types such
as single units and duplex units.
   C.   Zone Use Limitations: Uses permitted in the MPD shall be limited to
those uses permitted in the zone in which the MPD is allowed. (Ord., 1-18-2005;
amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-9-3: DENSITY:
The base density in lots and/or units per net acre as defined in this section
for an MPD shall be as follows:
 
A1  1 unit/acre
R1  4 units/acre
R2  2 units/acre
DZ  To be determined by planning commission
RT2 4 units/acre
 
   (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
   A.   Base Density Exclusions: In determining the maximum base density of the
project, the following areas shall not be included within the boundaries of any
lot laid out or counted in determining the maximum base density, except as
provided herein:
      1.   One-half (1/2) of the area of slopes greater than twenty percent
(20%) but less than thirty five percent (35%);
      2.   All acreage having a slope of thirty five percent (35%) or greater;
      3.   All acreage covered by natural streams, lakes or ponds;
      4.   All areas where native soils are classified by the United States
department of agriculture, soil conservation service, as having severe
limitations as foundations for low buildings and all native soils having no
interpretations. If the developer submits with his application an engineering
report that defines the soils limitations and detailed engineering plans that
will reduce the possible hazard to an acceptable standard to the town, the town
council may consider this area for inclusion in the maximum base density. These
soils include areas with high water table, areas with high shrink-swell
potential, areas subject to flooding, and areas having a high degree of slope.
   B.   Density Bonuses: The town council may, upon recommendation of the
planning commission, grant an amenity density bonus and/or an impact density
bonus, which may allow the developer of an MPD to exceed the maximum base
density for the zone district.
      1.   Amenity Density Bonus: An "amenity density bonus" shall be defined
as an increase over the maximum base density for amenities included in a master
planned development. Amenities for a particular project may vary from those of
another project because of project type and market for which the project is
being built. Types of amenities may include dense landscapes, yard lights,
tennis courts, trails, equestrian facilities, recreation areas and parks,
permanent open space, common usable agricultural or farming open spaces, or
other similar features. Such features may be an amenity for one project, but a
liability for another. The town shall consider the total project and the
proposed amenities, and determine the amount of amenity density bonus a project
may receive. An amenity density bonus may be based on any of the following:
         a.   Building And Project Design: Design considerations shall give
comprehensive and critical attention to architectural design and style,
including unit types, architectural theme, building materials and colors, fence
and wall treatment, solar considerations, project entrances, orientation of
buildings to amenities within the development, and visual appearance of the
development from outside the project.
         b.   Provision And Protection Of Open Space: This shall mean the
provision and protection of permanent common open space or agricultural open
space which is distinguishable from a standard subdivision by its quantity or
quality and which is readily accessible to the residents of the development.
Credit will be given for innovative clustering designs that maximize open space
and preserve the scenic views and beauty of the community. Open space placed in
conservation easements for perpetuity will be valued highly in the MPD process.
         c.   Innovative Site Plan: An innovative site plan shall mean a site
plan which features a street pattern which discourages through traffic, ensures
the privacy and security of the residents of the development and is in harmony
with the topography and other natural features. An innovative site plan could
also include a variety of lot sizes, setbacks and dwelling unit types.
         d.   Interior Amenities: "Interior amenities" shall mean the provision
of private recreational facilities such as tennis courts, recreational centers,
jogging paths, trails, water features, etc., which are accessible to the
residents of the development; as well as overall streetscape, including street
and sidewalk treatment, street trees, overall landscaping, signs, graphics,
mailboxes, yard lighting, garage placement, carport screening and dwelling
entrances.
         e.   Substantial Public Benefit: "Substantial public benefit" shall
mean the provision of public facilities that are both unusual in character and
serve the needs of an area greater than the immediate development. No density
increase for substantial public benefit may be approved unless the public
facilities provided are in excess of the typically required street
improvements, sidewalks or trails, utilities and drainage facilities.
      2.   Impact Density Bonus: In order to promote urban in-filling, the town
council, upon recommendation of the planning commission, and after receiving
input from the neighbors of the proposed MPD, may grant an impact bonus of up
to ten percent (10%) of the base density. This bonus may be granted if the town
council finds that the proposed MPD is adversely impacted by its proximity to
commercial development, multiple-family housing units, or other similar
factors.
      3.   Total Density: In no case shall the total density, including the
maximum base density (with exclusions) and all density bonuses, exceed the
following for the zone in which the proposed MPD is located: (Ord., 1-18-2005)
   Zone Dwelling Units Per Net Acre:
 
A1  1 unit/acre
R1  4 units/acre
R2  2 units/acre
DZ  To be determined by planning commission
RT2 4 units/acre
 
   (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
9-9-4: MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area: The following minimum MPD area requirements shall also apply for
each zone:
   Zone Minimum Area:
 
A1        5 acres
R1 and R2 2 acres
DZ        2 acres
RT2       5 acres nonresidential
 
   (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
   B.   Exceptions: The town council may, upon recommendation of the planning
commission, allow an MPD development on smaller parcels if the town council
finds that the proposed MPD meets the standards of subsection 9-9-5D of this
chapter, and that the benefits of such action outweigh any potential negative
effects on surrounding properties. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-9-5: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Development Review Application: The developer of a proposed MPD shall
submit a development review application, with a fee as established by town
council resolution, and a preliminary development plan to the town.
   B.   Application Form: The form and contents of the preliminary development
plan shall be as follows:
      1.   The preliminary development plan shall be drawn to a scale not
smaller than one inch equals sixty feet (1" = 60') and shall be on standard
twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") paper or smaller.
      2.   Each sheet of the development plat shall contain the name of the
development, the scale of the drawing, which shall not be less than one inch
equals sixty feet (1" = 60'), the sheet number, an arrow indicating north, and
a vicinity map.
      3.   The preliminary development plan shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The proposed name of the development.
         b.   Where the submitted plan covers only a part of the development
tract, or is part of a larger vacant area, the plan shall show the location of
the development as it forms part of the larger tract or parcel of land. In such
case, a sketch of the prospective future street system of the remaining parts
shall be submitted and the street system of the proposed development shall be
considered in light of adjustments and connections with the future street
system of the larger area.
         c.   A vicinity map containing sufficient information to accurately
locate the property shown on the plat and map.
         d.   The names and addresses of the owner, the subdivider, the
engineer or surveyor of the development, and the owners of all lands or parcels
immediately adjoining the land to be subdivided as shown on the records of the
Box Elder County recorder or assessor.
         e.   A contour map drawn at two foot (2') intervals on all development
plats, unless waived in writing by the planning commission.
         f.   The boundary lines of the tract to be developed.
         g.   The lot dimensions and square footage of each lot.
         h.   Existing curbs, gutters, sidewalks, sanitary sewers and manholes,
storm drains and manholes, water supply main valves and lines, culverts and
fire hydrants within the tract or within two hundred feet (200') of the
boundaries of the proposed development. The dimensions of all such improvements
shall also be indicated.
         i.   The location, width and other dimensions of proposed curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, streets, easements, parks and other open spaces with proper
labeling, and of land to be dedicated to the town.
         j.   The location, principal dimensions and names of all existing or
recorded streets, alleys and easements, both within the proposed development
and adjacent to the boundary thereof, whether recorded or claimed by usage; the
location of and distance to the nearest existing bench mark (or monument) and
section line; and the location and principal dimensions of all watercourses,
ditches, public utilities and other important features; and existing structures
within the land adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, and exceptional
topography.
         k.   The location of existing bridges, culverts, surface or subsurface
drainageways, utilities, public buildings, pumping stations or appurtenances,
within the development or within two hundred feet (200') thereof.
         l.   Proposed water facilities, sanitary sewers, storm drainage
facilities and fire hydrants, located either within or without the development.
         m.   A plan by which the developer proposes to handle, within the
development, the storm water drainage. This system must be adequate to handle a
10-year return frequency storm.
         n.   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of land, showing ownership and
property monuments.
         o.   A tabulation of each proposed use by acreage and its percentage
of the total acreage.
         p.   Parks, playgrounds, common areas and facilities, limited common
areas and facilities appurtenant, and other improvements within the MPD.
         q.   Location of all dwellings and other structures in the
development, the common areas, limited common areas and other areas of private
ownership, including open spaces and how they will be preserved and protected.
         r.   Typical landscape planting plan for each landscaped area of the
development which will be held in common or limited common ownership.
         s.   Building elevations and basic floor plans for all buildings
within the development or guarantees in the form of covenants that the
buildings on individual lots will be compatible in value and design with other
buildings in the development.
         t.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed plan as submitted.
   C.   Other Conditions: The planning commission may recommend and the town
council may impose such conditions on the development plans as they deem
appropriate to meet the goals and objectives of this chapter. The town council
may disapprove an MPD which is found to be deficient in meeting the intent of
these provisions.
   D.   Town Council Approval Issues: The town council may, upon recommendation
of the planning commission, approve in concept, the preliminary development
plan; provided, that they find:
      1.   The proposed development will provide a living environment at least
as pleasant and attractive as would be provided by a conventional residential
development established under the strict application of the provisions of the
underlying zone.
      2.   The MPD project will provide more efficient use of the land and more
usable and permanent open space than a conventional development permitted by
the underlying zone and will further the objectives of the town general plan.
      3.   Any increased amenity density bonus allowed within the proposed MPD
will be reasonably compensated by better amenities and recreational facilities
as set forth in this chapter.
      4.   Any impact density bonus allowed within the proposed MPD is
justified by the adverse impact of the proximity of the MPD to commercial
development, multiple-family housing units or other similar factors.
      5.   Any variation allowed from the development standards of the
underlying zone does not create increased unreasonable hazards to the health,
safety and general welfare of the residents of the proposed MPD and adjacent
areas.
   E.   Other Documentation: The following documents shall be submitted with a
preliminary development plan:
      1.   Zone Changes: Any written requests for proposed changes to existing
zoning district boundaries or zoning classifications that are necessary for
approval of the MPD.
      2.   Agreements: Copies of any necessary or required agreements with
property owners adjacent to the proposed MPD, or with any other person or
entity.
      3.   Irrigation Companies: Written approval of adjoining irrigation,
ditch or canal companies to authorize any required fencing and easement access
protection (if such approval is required).
      4.   Statement Of Intent: A statement of intent shall be submitted with
each development plan. A statement of intent is a narrative describing the
intangible concepts the developer proposes to implement with the project
development. The statements shall be descriptive and shall include, but may not
be limited to:
         a.   Market analysis.
         b.   Design theme of entire project to include treatment of houses,
landscaping, mailboxes, street signs and lighting, and trails/walkways.
         c.   Buyer profile. An expected buyer profile should be described.
(The project amenities are dictated somewhat by the buyer profile.)
         d.   Selling price range of the units.
         e.   Common area amenities not detailed on the development plat.
         f.   Proposed budget for common area amenities and landscaping.
         g.   Maintenance and repair of common, limited common and private
areas.
         h.   Complete and detailed project construction phasing.
         i.   A list of amenities proposed for the development.
         j.   A time schedule for the completion of common area facilities,
including landscaping, parking, parks and other improvements. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-9-6: FINAL PLAT AND DEVELOPMENT PLANS:
   A.   Failure To Submit A Plan: Failure to submit a final development plan
within one year of the date of approval of the preliminary development plan
shall terminate all proceedings and render approval of the preliminary
development plan null and void.
   B.   Plan Preparation And Qualifications: A final plat of all or part of the
MPD shall be prepared by the developer's surveyor and engineer and submitted to
the town, together with the required fees. All final plats must be signed by a
licensed surveyor and must conform to any applicable town design standards. The
one year time limit for submission and recordation of the final plat may be
extended by the planning commission for up to one additional year.
   C.   Plan Requirements: The final plat shall be drawn on a sheet of approved
tracing linen or Mylar having outside or trim line dimensions of twenty four
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). The border line of the plat shall be
drawn in heavy lines leaving a space of at least one and one-half inches (11/
2") on the left side and at least a one-half inch (1/2") margin on other sides.
The plat shall be drawn so that the top of the drawing faces north. All lines,
dimensions and markings shall be made on the tracing linen with approved
waterproof black drawing ink. The plat shall be made to a scale large enough to
clearly show all details and in any case not smaller than one inch equals sixty
feet (1" = 60'). The finished drawing shall be neat, clean cut and readable,
and shall be in conformance with the format approved by the town and the county
recorder. The final plat shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name of the development.
      2.   A north arrow (point), the scale of the drawing and the date of
preparation of the plat.
      3.   All lot sizes, which shall be indicated in square feet.
      4.   Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the proper bearings and
dimensions of all boundary lines of the MPD, properly tied by reference to two
(2) public survey monuments. These lines shall be heavier than street and lot
lines.
      5.   The names, widths, lengths, bearings and curve data of proposed
streets, public utility and irrigation easements; also, the boundaries,
bearings and dimensions of all portions within the subdivision intended to be
dedicated to the use of the public; also the lines, dimensions, bearings and
numbers of all lots, blocks and parts reserved for any reason within the MPD.
All lots, blocks and streets shall be numbered in accordance with the street
numbering system adopted by the town. In the case of corner lots, an address
will be assigned for each part of the lot having frontage. Streets may be named
as approved by the town; however, each street must have a number.
      6.   A licensed land surveyor's certificate of survey.
      7.   The description of the boundaries of the development, together with
a certification by the subdivider's engineer or land surveyor stating that the
lots described fully comply with the requirements of the town subdivision and
master planned development code.
      8.   The owner's certificate of dedication as required by Box Elder
County.
      9.   The signature of every person who owns property within the
development and a notary public's acknowledgment of all such signatures.
      10.   The planning commission's approval of the development plan, with
the signature of the planning commission chairperson.
      11.   A signature line for the mayor.
      12.   The town engineer, fire department, Box Elder County health
department and Box Elder School District approval and signature.
      13.   A notice of all covenants, conditions and other restrictions which
may be relevant and applicable to the property contained in the plat.
      14.   Designation of common areas, limited common areas, open spaces and
private ownership areas.
      15.   Identification of landscaped areas limits of disturbance, parking
areas, driveways and other features required by this section, and a detailed
landscape planting plan and irrigation system plan for each landscaped area of
the development, which is to be held in common or limited common ownership.
      16.   Three-dimensional drawings of multi-storied buildings and building
elevations where required.
      17.   Plat restrictions, lot or deed restrictions, covenants and other
information required by the planning commission and/or the town council.
      18.   In the case where the MPD is a condominium project, the developer
shall submit a written statement by an attorney who is licensed to practice in
the state. This written opinion shall state that the condominium declaration,
the record of survey map and the other supporting documentation comply in all
respects with the Utah condominium ownership act 1 , as well as all applicable
federal, state and local laws and ordinances, and that when the condominium
declaration and survey map have been recorded in the office of the Box Elder
County recorder that the proposed project will be a validly existing and lawful
condominium project in all respects.
   D.   Town Council Approval Issues: The town council may approve the final
development plans of the MPD, provided it finds that:
      1.   All of the conditions of approval of the preliminary development
plan have been incorporated into the final development plans. If it has been
more than one hundred eighty (180) days since the preliminary development plan
was approved, an updated market analysis and phase plan is required before
final approval can be given.
      2.   All construction drawings of the MPD have been approved by the town
engineer.
   E.   Variations: Variations from the development standards of the underlying
zone in which the MPD is located may be permitted by the town council, provided
the variations are specifically adopted by the town council as part of the
approved development plans or approved supporting documents. Variations,
however, shall not include changes in the permitted zone uses allowed except to
the extent set forth herein. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 57-8-1 et seq.
9-9-7: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Neighborhood Meeting: The applicant for any MPD shall conduct at least
one neighborhood meeting for the residents in the area of the proposed MPD to
explain the proposed development and to address all neighborhood concerns. Such
meeting shall be accomplished prior to the preliminary development plan being
scheduled for review by the planning commission. The area of notice for the
meeting will be determined by the planning commission.
   B.   Compliance With Town Codes: Master planned developments shall comply
with the requirements of this chapter and the stipulations and requirements of
the entire subdivision and master planned development code, as well as any
requirements and conditions of the planning commission and town council. The
requirements and standards set forth herein shall apply to any master planned
development, and are in addition to any other regulations required by a
conventional development not submitted as an MPD. All development must comply
with any of the applicable subdivision standards contained in the subdivision
and master planned development code.
   C.   Structure Setbacks:
      1.   No structure shall be set back less than twenty feet (20') from the
right of way line of a dedicated street. If a setback of less than twenty five
feet (25') is used, the planning commission may require that setback distances
from the front property line be varied and shall determine said setback
distances.
      2.   Building setbacks along the main peripheral property lines of an MPD
shall be the same as that required in the zone for any abutting residential
properties.
   D.   Land Ownership Designation: All land within a development shall be
either common area, open space, limited common area dedicated to public use,
privately owned as a buildable lot, or a combination of the above.
   E.   Slopes: Any slope greater than twenty percent (20%) may be used as
parks or playground areas, but shall not be included in open space calculation
requirements.
   F.   Utilities:
      1.   All dwelling units shall be served by an approved water system and
the public sewer system if the public sewer system is located within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the property line of the MPD or if the density
warrants or requires connection in any location as determined by the town
council and/or Box Elder County health department. Units must be serviced by a
public or approved private water supply. All utilities shall be placed
underground. Each dwelling unit shall be individually metered for natural gas,
electricity and water. Each building shall be served by a separate sewer
lateral and not more than four (4) dwelling units within a building may be
connected to one lateral. Each unit will be required to install backflow
protection devices and water valves, as well as backwater valves in sewer lines
in multiple unit developments in accordance with the applicable plumbing code.
      2.   If an MPD has more than three (3) developable lots, including any
future phases, and, in the town's opinion, the project is in an area that may
be serviced with a sewer system in the next ten (10) years, the town council or
planning commission may require sewer improvements to be installed in the
subdivision. These improvements must be constructed to current town standards,
properly capped, marked as to their termination in the lots (with acceptable as
built drawings provided to the town) and be made separate from the septic
system in place or proposed. This system would make it more feasible and less
costly and troublesome on the residents of the development in the future when
the service would be available and/or the connection would become mandatory.
   G.   Fences: A six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence may be required by
the planning commission to be erected on the perimeter of MPD projects.
   H.   Landscaping:
      1.   The required front setbacks and side setbacks adjacent to a
dedicated street shall be landscaped, except for permitted driveways, and shall
not be used for parking.
      2.   All common areas shall be permanently landscaped with trees, shrubs,
lawn or ground cover and maintained in accordance with good landscaping
practice, unless the area is to be designated as natural open space.
      3.   Each dwelling unit shall be landscaped as fitting the MPD project.
   I.   Parking: Dwelling units shall be provided with not less than two (2)
parking spaces each. In addition, one-half (0.5) parking space for each
dwelling unit shall be developed for guest parking within the development,
unless the streets provided within the development are constructed to a width
which will accommodate travel lanes as well as parking lanes. Guest parking
shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the dwellings served.
All parking spaces, parking areas and driveways shall be hard surfaced and
properly drained. Drainage shall not be channeled or caused to flow across
pedestrian walkways or trails.
   J.   Streets:
      1.   All streets within an MPD shall have a paving width of thirty four
feet (34'). However, a minimum width of twenty eight feet (28') of paving may
be approved in certain instances where, in the opinion of the town council,
such factors as the number of dwelling units served by the street, anticipated
traffic volumes and controlled on street parking may tolerate a lesser
standard. However, all street rights of way shall have a sixty six foot (66')
wide minimum, unless otherwise specified in the town streets master plan.
      2.   All streets which are shown on the town master streets plan, if
adopted, or the land use/zoning maps, shall be developed according to the size
and general location shown on the street plan. Other streets developed in an
MPD are encouraged to be dedicated to the town as public streets; however,
private streets may be permitted within MPDs; provided, that:
         a.   A private street will not extend to or provide service to another
property or parcel not included in the MPD.
         b.   The street will not provide access or travel between, or
otherwise connect with, two (2) public streets. The town council may waive this
requirement upon recommendation of the planning commission if circumstances
warrant.
         c.   The street is designed by a qualified civil engineer to town
standards.
         d.   The minimum width standards may be increased when, in the
judgment of the town council, a greater standard is warranted to adequately
serve the development.
         e.   Private streets are entered from the public streets by a driveway
type entrance with no curb cut and are posted as private streets.
         f.   All private streets shall be designated on the final plat as a
perpetual public utilities easement.
   K.   Common Areas: Common areas of a development shall be developed
according to the plan approved by the town council and maintained in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Common or privately held open spaces must
be perpetually dedicated as such through appropriate deed restrictions or
conservation easements, as determined by the town.
   L.   Storage Areas And Solid Waste Receptacles: All storage and solid waste
receptacles which are not located within a building shall be enclosed within a
sight obscuring structure or fence compatible with the design of the
development.
   M.   Recreational Vehicle Storage: An MPD which contains more than four (4)
attached units shall provide a paved surface, enclosed area for the storage of
operable and licensed recreational vehicles. This area shall be developed at
the ratio of one hundred forty (140) square feet of storage area for each
attached dwelling unit. An MPD which contains twelve (12) or fewer attached
dwelling units may restrict the storage of recreational vehicles on the
premises in the restrictions and covenants of the project. This restriction
must be approved by the town council. The structure enclosing the recreational
vehicle storage area shall be at least six feet (6') in height. Said enclosure
may be required to be sight obscuring for all or part of the length thereof
when, in the opinion of the planning commission or town council, it is
necessary to preserve the character and aesthetic qualities of the development
or surrounding areas.
   N.   Declaration Of Covenants, Conditions And Restrictions: Where covenants,
conditions and restrictions are imposed upon an MPD, two (2) copies of the
declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions shall be submitted to the
town, signed and prepared for recording at the Box Elder County recorder's
office prior to approval of a final plat.
   O.   Development Bond: Prior to the recording of any documents concerning an
approved MPD or plat maps and prior to the issuance of any building permit on
ground covered by an MPD, a bond sufficient in amount to cover the cost of all
off site and on site improvements required by this chapter and all stipulations
and requirements of the planning commission and town council, shall be
required. The bond shall be a guarantee that the proper installation of all
required improvements, including amenities, shall be completed within one year
of recordation of the approved final plat. This guarantee bond shall also
assure that the improvements shall remain free from defects for six (6) months
or until April 15 of the following year, whichever is longer, and shall not be
released until the improvements are accepted by the town. Said bond shall be in
the form prescribed by chapter 8, article C of this title, and in an amount as
reasonably set forth by the town engineer.
   P.   Final Plat Recordation: The final plat shall be recorded after all
signatures are obtained, all approvals are given, and all bonds and fees are
posted with the town engineer and/or building official.
   Q.   Sensitive Lands: Any lands deemed as sensitive lands by this title or
the town must be protected as designated in the sensitive lands overlay zone
and shall not be included in the open space calculation requirements.
   R.   Concurrency: All on site and off site infrastructure required for the
impacts of the entire MPD in all of its phases must be installed concurrently
and operational by the time the first phase is completed and certificates of
occupancy are issued. All guarantees on the improvements begin when the
certificates of occupancy are issued and must last one year from that point in
time. Bonds required in this chapter, as well as the subdivision regulations
and ordinances in this title, must cover completion of all improvements. These
improvements include, but are not limited to: water and sewer plants, lines,
storage tanks and other facilities, storm drainage and irrigation facilities,
streets and roads, public utilities, fire protection systems, public safety
systems and improvements, school and educational facilities, and any other
improvements deemed necessary in this chapter, or chapters 1, 3, 8, articles A
through E, and 10 of this title. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-9-8: CLUSTER SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Access: Each lot within a cluster type subdivision shall have direct
access to a public dedicated street.
   B.   Dwelling Location: Location of dwellings on lots within this type of
development shall be approved by the planning commission and town council on
the preliminary development plan.
   C.   Setbacks: Dwellings and attached carports, garages, patios, breezeways
or other structures attached to the dwelling shall have a minimum total side
yard setback of sixteen feet (16'). The minimum front setback for the main
dwelling and any additional accessory buildings or attachments shall be twenty
feet (20'). No more than two (2) adjacent dwellings shall have equal front
setbacks if the front setbacks are less than twenty five feet (25'). (Ord., 1-
18-2005)
9-9-9: MANUFACTURED HOUSING:
   A.   Width; Square Footage: The minimum width dimension for a manufactured
dwelling unit shall be twenty four feet (24'), which shall not include any
attachments or accessory use structures such as garage, carport or storage
building. The minimum square foot requirement is one thousand (1,000) square
feet.
   B.   Covered Parking Space: The required covered parking space shall be
attached to the dwelling unit in such a manner that it becomes an integral part
of the structure in design and appearance.
   C.   Elevations: Typical elevations of the dwelling unit and required or
proposed attachments shall be submitted for approval by the town council, upon
recommendation of the planning commission, at the time the development plan is
submitted.
   D.   Living Area: If the manufactured housing unit consists of multiple
sections, the minimum square foot required living area shall be one thousand
(1,000) square feet.
   E.   Roof: The roof of a manufactured housing unit shall be comprised of
conventional roofing shingles and shall have a pitch of not less than three
feet (3') in twelve feet (12'), and shall meet or exceed the snow load
requirements for the area.
   F.   Exterior Material: The exterior building material shall be comprised of
lapped steel, vinyl, aluminum, wood, brick or other nonreflective siding
material.
   G.   Foundation Required: The dwelling units in a manufactured housing MPD
shall be set on a permanent foundation of approved foundation materials (i.e.,
concrete or masonry).
   H.   HUD Requirements: Each manufactured housing unit shall meet the United
States department of housing and urban development requirements for
manufactured housing and shall bear the required certification of inspection by
authorized state inspectors.
   I.   Front Common Area: The required front yard setback may be required to
be common area and shall be irrigated and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
9-9-10: TWIN HOME DEVELOPMENTS:
Twin homes are limited to one unit per five (5) acres in any development
project.
   A.   Frontage: Each lot within a twin home development shall have frontage
on a public dedicated street.
   B.   Dwelling Location: Location of dwellings on lots within this type of
development shall be approved by the town council on the preliminary
development plan.
   C.   Center Wall Between Units: The center wall between the dwelling units
shall be the property line and shall be designed and constructed for
soundproofing.
   D.   Wall, Hedge Or Fence: A masonry wall or approved decorative fence or
hedge may surround each lot in accordance with the fencing provisions of the
underlying zone. Said wall, hedge or decorative fence may include front and
rear yard dividers. The rear yard may be divided by a sight obscuring fence,
wall or hedge.
   E.   Landscaping: The development plans shall include landscaping and
sprinkling systems for the front yards which shall be installed by the
developer. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-9-11: ZERO LOT LINE DEVELOPMENTS:
Zero lot line developments are not permitted. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-9-12: MULTI-FAMILY APARTMENT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Land Ownership Designation: Land ownership designations are not
required for apartment developments.
   B.   Utilities:
      1.   Each building shall have a minimum of one meter for water and each
building shall have at least one meter for natural gas and electricity.
      2.   No more than four (4) dwelling units shall be connected to one sewer
lateral. Each unit shall have installed in the sewer lateral a backwater valve
along with clean outs for each unit.
   C.   Landscaping: All land, except for building areas, driveways and parking
areas within the apartment development shall be landscaped and maintained with
trees, shrubs, lawn and ground cover.
   D.   Parking: No less than two (2) off street parking spaces shall be
provided for each dwelling unit. In addition, one off street parking space for
each four (4) dwelling units shall be provided for guest parking. All parking
spaces and driveways shall be paved with either asphalt or concrete and
properly drained. Drainage shall not be channeled or caused to flow across
pedestrian walkways or trails.
   E.   Recreational Vehicle Storage: An apartment development with more than
twelve (12) units shall provide a paved parking surface enclosed with a sight
obscuring fence at least six feet (6') in height, for the storage of operable
and licensed recreational vehicles. This area shall be developed at the ratio
of fifty (50) square feet per unit. The town council may waive this requirement
that no recreational vehicle be parked or stored within the apartment
development.
   F.   Declaration Of Covenants, Conditions And Restrictions: Apartment
developments are not required to submit a declaration of covenants, conditions
and restrictions.
   G.   Final Plat Recordation: A final plat showing the area of the apartment
development and bearing the name of the apartment development shall be approved
by the town and shall be recorded in the office of the Box Elder County
recorder. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02, 3-17-2020)
9-9-13: MINOR MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT:
If an MPD meets the same qualifications in size and definition of a minor
subdivision, as described in the subdivision and master planned development
code, and does not necessitate the creation of large public infrastructure to
meet its needs, the MPD may be classified as a minor master planned
development, and the planning commission may waive many of the requirements in
this chapter required for a conventional MPD, including off site infrastructure
concurrency, and bonding requirements. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
CHAPTER 10
SENSITIVE LANDS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-10-0: Scope Of Regulations
9-10-1: Application And Analysis Requirements
9-10-2: Sensitive Lands Regulations
9-10-3: Administrative Provisions
9-10-4: Definitions
9-10-5: Design Standards
9-10-6: Tree And Vegetation Protection Regulations
9-10-0: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
This chapter details the regulations associated with the assessment, treatment
and management of sensitive lands designed by the town during project specific
impact studies or lying within the sensitive lands overlay zone, as shown on
the official zoning maps of the town. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-10-1: APPLICATION AND ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS:
Lands in or partially in the sensitive lands overlay zone, as depicted in the
land use map and zoning district maps, as well as other smaller areas outside
of the overlay zone as determined by the planning commission and town council
to possibly be sensitive, require the developer to perform the following
application and environmental impact studies, consisting of an analysis of each
of the elements of subsections A and B of this section, and as designated by
the planning commission. The study shall follow all standards that shall apply
in this chapter and provide enough information to the town to be able to
reasonably designate the sensitive lands areas, as well as providing adequate
treatment and mitigation alternatives for dealing with the development impacts.
Sensitive areas so designated contain lands that may have development
suitability concerns as contained in subsection 9-8D-1E of this title, and the
conditions and impacts of the potential development must be critically
evaluated as per this chapter.
The following analysis elements must be conducted to determine the exact
boundaries of the sensitive areas, as well as mitigation measures necessary to
eliminate or lessen the impacts of development. The studies do not in and of
themselves define the sensitive areas.
   A.   Sensitive Areas Analysis And Determination: Any applicant for any
development approval must produce a sensitive areas analysis, performed by
qualified professionals as approved by the town, that identifies and delineates
all the following features and conditions:
      1.   Slope/Topographic Map: A slope/topographic map which shall be
prepared and based on a certified boundary survey and depict contours at
intervals of five feet (5') or less. Additionally, the map shall highlight
areas of high geologic hazard, areas subject to landsliding, and all
significant steep slopes in the following categories:
         a.   Greater than fifteen percent (15%) but less than or equal to
thirty percent (30%);
         b.   Greater than thirty percent (30%) but less than or equal to forty
percent (40%);
         c.   Over forty percent (40%).
         d.   "Steep slopes" shall be defined as all areas within a parcel with
a slope of greater than fifteen percent (15%). "Very steep slopes" shall be
defined as all areas within a parcel with a slope of greater than thirty
percent (30%).
      2.   Ridgeline Areas: Ridgeline areas which shall be denoted and include
all crests of hills or steep slopes, as defined in section
9-10-4 of this chapter.
      3.   Vegetative Cover: Vegetative cover shall be denoted generally by
type and density of vegetation, including: a) deciduous trees; b) coniferous
trees; c) gamble oak or high shrub; d) sage, grassland; and e) agricultural
crops. The town shall have the discretion to require a more detailed tree/
vegetation survey if the site has significant or unusual vegetation, stands of
trees or wooded areas.
      4.   Entry Corridors And Vantage Points: All town designated entry
corridors showing on the land use map and/or zoning map, as well as the
designated "vantage points" present within or adjacent to the site, as defined
in section
9-10-4 of this chapter.
      5.   Wetlands: Wetlands as established by using the "Federal Manual For
Identifying And Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands", dated January 10, 1989,
or more recent, whichever is stricter. Although the federal manual may change
in the future, the town will use this referenced manual as a basis for wetlands
determination.
      6.   Stream Corridors: Stream corridors, as defined by their ordinary
high water mark.
      7.   Wildlife Habitats: Delineate all critical or sensitive wildlife
areas and habitats, as defined by the state or other studies, and designate
which wildlife species inhabit the area and may be affected by the different
types of land uses proposed in the area.
   B.   Additional Information And Study Requirements: In addition to the
analysis required by subsection A of this section, the planning commission may
require the applicant to undertake the following studies and submit the
following information and assessments to ensure that the town has adequate
information to comprehensively assess all development proposals in or
containing sensitive lands. Such information and studies may include, but are
not limited to:
      1.   Visual Assessment: Visual assessments of the subject property from
relevant designated vantage points as directed by the planning commission,
depicting conditions before and after the proposed development, including the
proposed location, size, design, landscaping and other visual features of the
project to assist in analyzing the potential aesthetic impact and most
advantageous location of structures and other improvements to reduce any
adverse impact. The visual assessment shall be conducted using techniques as
approved by the planning commission, including, but not limited to, sketches,
models, drawings, renderings, hand enhanced photographs and computerized
images. Selection of the appropriate technique will depend on the size of the
development and the visual sensitivity of the proposed development site.
      2.   Soil Investigation Report: Soil investigation report, including, but
not limited to, shrink-swell potential, elevation of water table, general soil
classification and suitability for development, erosion potential, hazardous
material analysis and potential frost action.
      3.   Geotechnical Report: Geotechnical report, including, but not limited
to, location of major geographic and geologic features, depth and types of
bedrock, structural features (folds, fractures, faults, etc.), and historic and
potential landslide and other high hazard areas such as mine shafts/tunnels,
quarries and known snow avalanche paths.
      4.   Additional Slope Information: If the size of the proposed
development and visual sensitivity of the site dictate, the planning commission
or staff may require the submission of a slope/topographic map depicting
contours at intervals of two feet (2').
      5.   Fire Protection Report: Fire protection report, including, but not
limited to, identification of potential fire hazards, mitigation measures,
access for fire protection equipment, existing and proposed fire flow
capability. The fire protection report shall address, as appropriate,
residential development identification classification and regulation report and
the Box Elder County wildfire plan. This report must be made with the
direction/cooperation and approval of the fire department.
      6.   Hydrologic Report: Hydrologic report, including, but not limited to,
information on ground water levels, natural and agricultural irrigation and
drainage channels and systems, and base elevations in floodplains.
      7.   Wetland/Stream Corridor Resource Evaluation: Wetland/stream corridor
resource evaluation, including a delineation of wetland and stream corridor
boundaries and a determination of resource significance pursuant to subsection
9-10-2D of this chapter.
      8.   Agricultural Analysis: An agricultural analysis as per section
9-3-33 of this title may be required to determine the impacts on important
agricultural areas within or adjoining the area. This analysis must address the
effects of changing land uses on vegetation, irrigation systems, rangeland
quality, weed control, agricultural accesses and rights of way, and fire
concerns, to name a few.
   C.   Waiver/Modification Of Analysis And Study Requirements: Based upon a
preliminary assessment of the development proposal and a site field inspection,
the planning commission may modify or waive any of the sensitive lands analysis
requirements upon a determination that the information is not necessary for a
full and adequate analysis of the development or is sufficient at a reduced
level of detail.
   D.   Sensitive Areas Determination: The planning commission shall delineate
all sensitive lands or areas on the parcel, including steep slope areas,
ridgeline areas, entry corridors, and wetlands areas and stream corridors and
other areas based on information submitted pursuant to this section, including
any other information and data available to or acquired by the town, and an
analysis thereof. Such delineation shall be used on the basis for all
calculations of open space, density, buffers, setbacks and density transfers
permitted or required by this chapter. The study performed by the developer may
suggest areas for designation and/or various alternatives; however, the final
designation must be made by the town.
   E.   Density Transfer: Whenever land within the sensitive lands overlay zone
is subject to more than one density transfer provision, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   F.   Annexations: Whenever an annexation petition is presented to the town,
that annexation may be required to provide a sensitive lands analysis according
to this title and may require varying levels of detail based upon existing
conditions on the site. The sensitive lands will be determined based upon that
analysis. The analysis may lead to the designation of additional sensitive
areas, significant ridgelines, wetlands areas or vantage points which may not
have been previously included as a part of this title or of the accompanying
maps. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-10-2: SENSITIVE LANDS REGULATIONS:
The following provisions shall apply to all delineated sensitive lands and
areas contained in the sensitive lands overlay zone, or as delineated elsewhere
as provided in section
9-10-1 of this chapter, including all other steep slopes, ridgeline areas,
meadows, entry corridors, wetlands, and stream or river corridors. Areas
delineated as hazardous (geologic or natural hazards and high flooding
potential) to development or areas where proper wildlife mitigation measures
cannot be implemented to the satisfaction of the town in the studies and
analysis requirements of this chapter, will be deemed as undevelopable. The
following subsections of this section regulate development in the sensitive
lands which are located outside of the designated undevelopable areas:
   A.   Slope Protection Regulations:
      1.   Intent: It is the intent of these regulations to protect the town's
visual character and environmentally sensitive areas on hillsides and slopes.
This shall be accomplished by minimizing the visual and environmental impacts
of development through careful site planning that maintains the maximum amount
of open space, protects existing vegetation, avoids sensitive natural areas,
minimizes erosion, recognizes the need for water conservation and locates
structures in the least visually sensitive location. These regulations shall
apply to all slopes in excess of fifteen percent (15%).
      2.   Prohibitions: No development shall be allowed on or within fifty
feet (50') of slopes in excess of thirty percent (30%), lands subject to
landsliding or regular flooding, soils deemed unsuitable as to safety, and
other high hazard geological areas, as determined by a geotechnical or soils
report produced pursuant to section
9-10-1 of this chapter.
      3.   Graded Or Filled Slopes: Cutting and filling to create additional or
larger building sites shall be kept to a minimum and avoided to the maximum
extent feasible. All proposed grading and filling shall be subject to review by
the town engineer and staff to ensure minimum visual impact and geotechnical
safety. Graded or filled slopes shall be limited to a three to one (3:1) slope
or less. All graded slopes shall be recontoured and revegetated to the natural,
varied contour of surrounding terrain.
      4.   Benching Or Terracing: Benching or terracing to provide additional
or larger building sites is prohibited.
      5.   Streets And Roads: Road construction in hillsides can be the most
visually disruptive portion of a development. Development in some areas may not
be appropriate if roads cannot be constructed to access it without causing
significant visual impacts. Where streets and roads, public and private, are
proposed to be constructed on steep slopes:
         a.   Streets and roads that cross slopes of thirty percent (30%) or
greater shall not be allowed, except that a short run of not more than one
hundred feet (100') across slopes greater than thirty percent (30%) may be
allowed by the planning commission upon a favorable recommendation by the town
engineer that such streets or roads will not have significant adverse visual,
environmental or safety impact.
         b.   Where streets and roads, public and private, are proposed to
cross slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%), the following standards shall
apply:
            (1)   Evidence must be presented that such streets and roads will
be built with minimum environmental damage and within acceptable public safety
parameters.
            (2)   Such streets and roads shall, to the maximum extent feasible,
follow contour lines, preserve the natural character of the land, and be
screened with trees or vegetation.
            (3)   Cutting and filling shall be held to a minimum and retaining
walls employed to help provide planting areas conducive to revegetation.
Revegetation plans will be required for all areas disturbed by and during road
construction.
      6.   Retaining Walls: Use of retaining walls is encouraged to reduce the
steepness of manmade slopes and provide planting pockets conducive to
revegetation. The use, design and construction of all retaining walls shall be
subject to the approval of the planning commission based upon assessment of
visual impact, compatibility with surrounding terrain and vegetation, and
safety considerations.
      7.   Landscaping And Revegetation: New development shall be landscaped or
revegetated in accordance with a revegetation/landscaping plan as provided in
subsection 9-8D-2D of this title, as amended, and enhanced by the requirements
this chapter. Topsoil from any disturbed portion of a steep slope shall be
preserved and utilized in revegetation. Fill soil must be of a quality to
support native plant growth.
      8.   Private Development Design Standards: All development on steep
slopes shall comply with the design standards currently adopted by the town,
plus those standards of section
9-10-5 of this chapter.
      9.   Open Space And Density On Delineated Portions Of Sites With Steep
Slopes Greater Than Fifteen Percent But Less Than Or Equal To Thirty Percent:
In addition to the specific development regulations set forth above, the
following general open space, limits of disturbance and density transfer
regulations shall apply:
         a.   Open Space: Seventy five percent (75%) of the steep slope areas
shall remain in natural and permanent "open space", as defined in section
9-2-1 of this title. Twenty five percent (25%) may be developed in accordance
with the underlying zoning subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   Maximum Development Density: The maximum allowable density
that may be developed on the portion of the steep slope areas not set aside for
open space shall be governed by the underlying zoning. MPD bonuses shall not
apply to development in these areas, but may be used if transferred to another
site. However, the maximum allowable density shall be permitted only by
approval of the town pursuant to the visual and environmental analysis provided
for in section
9-10-1 of this chapter, and a finding that development at that density will not
have a significant adverse visual or environmental effect on the community as
set forth in subsection A9c of this section.
            (2)   Location Of Development Within Sensitive Areas: Any
development permitted in steep slope areas pursuant to this section shall be
located in such a manner to reduce visual and environmental impacts to the
maximum extent feasible. To determine the most appropriate location for
development, the planning commission shall require that the applicant conduct a
visual and environmental analysis considering visual impact from key vantage
points, potential for screening, location of natural drainage channels, erosion
potential, vegetation protection, access and similar site design criteria.
Based upon such analysis, the town may require any one or a combination of the
following measures:
               (A)   Clustering of development within the sensitive areas; or
               (B)   Dispersal of development throughout the sensitive areas;
or
               (C)   Transferal of development density to nonsensitive or less
sensitive portions of the site not subject to this section. (In transferring
development to less sensitive portions of the site, meadows must also be
considered as important visual resources. A low lying meadow area may not
always be the most appropriate location for all the development on a site to
occur. Development shall be sited to preserve the open meadow vistas which are
also desirable.)
         b.   Density Transfer: Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the
densities otherwise permitted in the underlying zone attributable to the
seventy five percent (75%) open space portion of the site may be transferred to
other portions of the site. The density transfer shall be subject to a
suitability determination as set forth in subsection A9c of this section. In
addition to density transfers permitted above, up to one hundred percent (100%)
of the remaining preexisting density as set forth in subsection A9a of this
section is eligible for transfer.
         c.   Suitability Determination: A suitability determination certifying
that a development will have no significant adverse impact on adjacent
properties or development shall be granted by the planning commission at the
time of master plan or subdivision review if the following conditions are
satisfied:
            (1)   The overall development density of the entire parcel (not
limited to the portion of the parcel receiving the transferred densities) is
compatible with that of adjacent properties or developments. The fact that
individual lot sizes in the receiving areas may vary from those of adjacent
properties or developments shall not solely be determinative of
incompatibility.
            (2)   The architecture, height, building materials and other design
features of the development in the receiving areas are compatible with adjacent
properties or developments.
            (3)   The applicant has agreed to adopt appropriate mitigation
measures such as landscaping, screening, illumination standards and other
design features as recommended by the planning commission to buffer the
adjacent properties from the receiving areas.
            (4)   There are no adverse or unmitigated impacts on wildlife in
the area.
      10.   Open Space And Density On Portions Of Sites With Very Steep Slopes
(In Excess Of 30 Percent):
         a.   One hundred percent (100%) of the very steep slope areas shall
remain in open space. No vegetation within fifty feet (50') of the very steep
slope areas shall be disturbed.
         b.   Up to ten percent (10%) of the densities otherwise permitted in
the zone may be transferred to other portions of the site, including delineated
sensitive areas if appropriate. The density transfer shall be subject to a
suitability determination by the town as set forth in subsection A9c of this
section.
      11.   Master Planned Development Open Space Requirements: Any open space
requirements contained in chapter 9 of this title shall continue to apply to
the developed portion of sensitive lands site developed under this chapter.
      12.   Transfer Density Bonuses: In addition to the density transfers
permitted pursuant to this section, the planning commission may grant, at the
MPD or subdivision review, up to a maximum of twelve and one-half percent (121/
2%) increase in transferable densities if the applicant:
         a.   Donates open space either in fee or a less than fee interest to
either the town or another unit of government or nonprofit land conservation
organization approved by the town. Such density bonus shall only be granted
upon a finding by the planning commission that such donation will ensure the
long term protection of a significant environmentally or visually sensitive
area; and/or
         b.   Provides public access other than trails normally required
through the development process and as shown on the trails master plan; and/or
         c.   Restores previously degraded wetlands or stream areas on the site
or makes other significant environmental improvements.
   B.   Ridgeline Area Protection Regulations:
      1.   Intent: The intent of these provisions is to protect the unique
visual and environmental character of all designated ridgeline areas within the
sensitive lands overlay zone and to ensure that development near ridgeline
areas blends in with rather than interrupts or modifies the natural contour
elevations of these landforms. Significant ridgeline areas should be retained
in a natural state, and development should be sited in such a manner so as not
to create a silhouette against the skyline or mountain backdrop as viewed from
the designated vantage points.
      2.   Minimum Setback: No building, roof or other appurtenant device shall
encroach upon the "ridgeline areas", as defined in section
9-10-4 of this chapter. Additionally, no roof or other appurtenant device,
including mechanical equipment, on any building may visually intrude on the
ridgeline areas from any of the designated vantage points as described herein,
and determined by a visual assessment.
      3.   Open Space And Density: In addition to the specific development
regulations set forth in this subsection, the following general open space,
limits of disturbance and density transfer regulations shall apply to all
ridgeline areas in the sensitive lands overlay zone:
         a.   Vegetation And Open Space: No vegetation within the ridgeline
areas shall be disturbed. One hundred percent (100%) of the ridgeline areas
shall remain in open space.
         b.   Density Transfer: Up to twelve and one-half percent (121/2%) of
the densities otherwise permitted in the zone attributable to the ridgeline
areas may be transferred to portions of the site determined not to be subject
to restrictive regulations contained in this section. The density transfer
shall be subject to a suitability determination as set forth below.
         c.   Suitability Determination: A suitability determination certifying
that a development will have no significant adverse impact on adjacent
properties or development shall be granted by the planning commission at the
time of master plan or subdivision review if the following conditions are
satisfied:
            (1)   The overall development density of the entire parcel (not
limited to the portion of the parcel receiving the transferred densities) is
compatible with that of adjacent properties or developments. The fact that
individual lot sizes in the receiving areas may vary from those of adjacent
properties or developments shall not be solely determinative of
incompatibility.
            (2)   The architecture, height, building materials and other design
features of the development in the receiving areas are compatible with adjacent
properties or developments.
            (3)   The applicant has agreed to adopt appropriate mitigation
measures such as landscaping, screening, illumination standards, and other
design features as recommended by the town to buffer the adjacent properties
from the receiving areas.
            (4)   There are no adverse or unmitigated impacts on wildlife in
the area.
      4.   Density Bonuses: In addition to the density transfers permitted
pursuant to this section, the planning commission may grant, at master plan
development (MPD) or subdivision review, up to a maximum of twelve and one-half
percent (121/2%) increase in transferable densities if the applicant:
         a.   Donates open space either in fee or a less than fee interest to
either the town or another unit of government or nonprofit land conservation
organization approved by the town. Such density bonus shall only be granted
upon a finding by the town that the donation will ensure the long term
protection of a significant environmentally or aesthetically sensitive area;
and/or
         b.   Provides public access for trails, other than those normally
required as a part of the development process and as shown on the trails master
plan; and/or
         c.   Restores degraded environmental areas on the site or makes other
significant environmental improvements.
   C.   Sensitive Lands Entry Corridor Protection:
      1.   Intent: To protect the image of the town as an agricultural
community with sweeping, attractive mountain vistas and open fields and
wetlands, it is the intent of this section to maintain the visual character of
all designated entry corridors into the town, including open space and wetlands
located in the entry corridor protection areas, views of hillsides and
ridgeline areas, and natural areas such as streams, rivers and wetlands. This
objective can be attained by eliminating or mitigating visually obtrusive
development and ensuring that significant portions of open space remains
intact.
      2.   Applicability To Property Within Existing Town Limits: The
regulations contained in this subsection shall apply to all structures on lots
adjacent to or within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the nearest right of way
of designated sensitive lands entry corridors within the existing boundaries of
the town, and may include all highway entries into the town and designated on
the land use map and the zoning district maps.
      3.   Applicability To Future Annexed Properties: Upon submission of an
annexation petition, the planning commission shall identify relevant sensitive
lands entry corridors for designation by the town council and to the maximum
extent feasible open vistas and meadows shall be maintained.
      4.   Access/Traffic: Access points and driveways connecting directly to
the sensitive lands entry corridor roadways shall be minimized. Access shall be
from existing town streets that join with the corridor roadways rather than
direct roadway access. Common driveways between adjoining projects shall be
encouraged. Whenever direct driveway access is necessary, it shall be located
in such a manner to minimize interference with through traffic on the corridor
roadway.
      5.   Setbacks:
         a.   A setback line shall be established by the planning commission or
town staff based upon a visual assessment of the property. However, in no case
shall the setback be less than one hundred feet (100') from the nearest entry
roadway right of way. In areas where open meadow vistas are considered
important, the required setback may be increased significantly. The one hundred
foot (100') standard is intended to be more appropriate for properties
currently within the town limits. Upon annexation request, the appropriate
setback will be determined based upon a site specific visual analysis.
         b.   Building setbacks shall vary from structure to structure within
any one lot or development. Setbacks shall also vary from those on adjoining
roadway oriented property to avoid creating a walled effect. Buildings shall be
located in such a manner to enhance and frame important views as determined in
the visual assessment provided for in subsection 9-10-1B1 of this chapter.
         c.   Agricultural or stock fences shall be permitted in the setback
areas.
      6.   Parking Lots: Parking lots shall be located to the rear or sides of
buildings to the maximum extent feasible.
      7.   Berms/Earthwork Screening: All earthen berms and earthwork screening
shall be graded and planted in such a manner so as to permit views of primary
uses on the site from the adjacent entry corridor roadway. Additionally, berm
crests shall be contoured and varied in height to avoid a straight line barrier
effect.
      8.   Fencing: In addition to the requirements contained in the
subdivision and master planned development code, all fences in the entry
corridor shall be of one of the following styles:
         a.   Wooden rail or synthetic rails.
         b.   Architecturally compatible solid wood, synthetic wood and natural
and synthetic stone.
         c.   Wire type stock fences.
         d.   Various forms of steel fencing as determined by the town, not
including chainlink fencing.
      9.   Height Controls:
         a.   No building shall exceed the following height limits:
            (1)   Twenty feet (20'), if the entry corridor setback is less than
one hundred fifty feet (150').
            (2)   Twenty five feet (25'), if the entry corridor setback is
greater than one hundred fifty feet (150') but less than two hundred feet
(200').
            (3)   Up to the maximum height allowed by the underlying zone, if
the setback is two hundred feet (200') or greater.
         b.   In addition, buildings may be required to be stepped back to
serve and enhance important views defined in the visual assessment as provided
in subsection 9-10-1B1 of this chapter.
      10.   Pedestrian Facilities: Trails and sidewalks shall be provided in
all entry corridor developments in accordance with the trails master plan.
      11.   Landscaping/Vegetation Protection: A landscaping plan shall be
required for all entry corridor developments, and vegetation protection shall
be undertaken pursuant to this title, as amended.
      12.   Design Standards: All development within an entry corridor shall
comply with the design standards contained in this title, as amended.
   D.   Wetlands And Stream Or River Corridors:
      1.   Intent: The town finds that the wetlands, streams and Bear River
channel corridors provide important hydrologic, biological and ecological,
aesthetic, recreational and educational functions. Important functional values
of wetlands and streams can be lost or significantly impaired as a result of
various development activities, and additional functional values of these
important resources may be lost. The following requirements and standards have
been developed to promote, preserve and enhance these valuable resources and to
protect them from adverse effects and potentially irreversible impacts.
      2.   Jurisdiction: All significant wetlands and stream corridors in the
sensitive lands overlay zone and elsewhere in the town are regulated as
provided herein and are subject to the jurisdiction of this title.
      3.   Prohibited Activities: No person shall engage in any activity that
will disturb, remove, fill, dredge, clear, destroy or alter any areas,
including vegetation ("surface disturbance"), within significant wetlands and
significant stream or river corridors and their respective setbacks, except as
may be expressly allowed herein.
      4.   Boundary Delineations: Wetland and stream corridor delineations
shall be performed by a qualified professional that has demonstrated experience
necessary to conduct site analysis. The qualified professional shall be
approved by the planning commission and shall perform the work on behalf of the
town through a third party contract, where all fees, costs and expenses are
borne by the applicant. Delineation of wetlands and stream corridors shall be
subject to the approval of the planning commission.
         a.   Pursuant to subsection 9-10-1A5 of this chapter, boundary
delineation of wetlands shall be established using the "Federal Manual For
Identifying And Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands", dated January 10, 1989,
and jointly published by the U.S. environmental protection agency, the U.S.
fish and wildlife service, the U.S. army corps of engineers and the U.S. soil
conservation service. Subsequent revisions to the federal manual shall not be
incorporated as part of the methodology unless the methodology is stricter in
application. Although the federal manual may change in the future, the town
will use this referenced manual as the main basis for wetlands determination.
         b.   Stream corridors shall be delineated at the "ordinary high water
mark", as defined in section
9-10-4 of this chapter.
      5.   Determination Of Significance:
         a.   A wetland delineated pursuant to the 1989 federal manual shall be
found significant based upon the following criteria:
            (1)   Size: All wetlands that occupy a surface area greater than
one-tenth (1/10) acre, or are associated with permanent surface water, are
significant.
            (2)   Location: All wetlands that are adjacent to or contiguous
with a stream corridor are significant.
         b.   All stream corridors are significant. Stream corridors shall not
include ditches which are commonly known to be irrigation ditches and do not
contribute to the preservation or enhancement of fisheries or wildlife.
      6.   Setbacks: The following setbacks are considered minimum distances:
         a.   Setbacks from wetlands shall extend a minimum of one hundred feet
(100') outward from the delineated wetland edge.
         b.   Setbacks from stream corridors shall extend a minimum of one
hundred feet (100') outward from the ordinary high water mark.
         c.   Setbacks from irrigation ditches shall extend a minimum of fifty
feet (50') from the ordinary high water mark.
      7.   Runoff Control: All projects adjacent to wetlands will provide
appropriate temporary (straw bale berms) and permanent runoff control to
minimize sediment and other contaminants to the maximum extent feasible. These
control systems must be approved by the town engineer.
      8.   Habitat Restoration Projects: The planning commission may approve
wetland and stream restoration and enhancement projects, providing that the
project plan has been reviewed by a qualified professional and approved by the
appropriate state and federal agencies with jurisdiction. All habitat
restoration work shall be performed under the direct supervision of a qualified
professional. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-10-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Development Approvals For Public Projects/Public Works/Public
Utilities: All public development projects and public works that visually
impact or otherwise adversely impact sensitive areas, and all public utility
installations, including, but not limited to, water and sewer projects,
pipelines, electrical supply facilities and wires, roads and trails,
constructed or undertaken within the sensitive lands overlay zone, shall be
reviewed according to the following process and guidelines. It is the intent of
this section that the proposed public utilities projects, both private and
public, make all reasonable attempts to comply with the standards and
guidelines of the sensitive lands regulations. The primary emphasis shall be on
reasonable and practical reclamation and revegetation of areas disturbed by
major public works and utility projects. In some situations, it may be
necessary to encroach upon certain environmentally sensitive areas in order to
maintain a desirable level of public service and safety. In those cases, an
evaluation of alternatives and possible mitigation shall be required prior to
such projects being submitted.
      1.   Consultation:
         a.   Public Utilities Projects: The project sponsor shall notify the
planning commission of the proposed project. A project plan delineating the
location, alignment and scope of the undertaking shall be submitted with such
notification. If the planning commission determines that the project may have
significant visual and environmental impacts, a consultation meeting shall be
scheduled. No development shall occur until after the consultation meeting and
compliance with the steps outlined in the following subsections, unless the
planning commission has determined that no significant visual or environmental
impact will result from the proposed project.
         b.   Public Works And Other Public Projects: The department director
shall notify the planning commission of all proposed projects which may have
significant visual and environmental impacts and a consultation meeting shall
be scheduled. No development shall occur until after the consultation meeting
and compliance with the steps outlined in the following subsections. Minor
projects which are determined by the planning commission to have no potential
for significant visual or environmental impacts shall be exempt from the
process outlined in subsections A2 through A6 of this section.
      2.   Mitigation: The planning commission shall review the proposed
project and after the consultation meeting may request the project sponsor to
prepare an environmental impact statement and/or mitigation plan that modifies
the project to mitigate the environmental and visual impact of the project. To
the maximum extent feasible, the project sponsor shall design the public works
to preserve the natural character of the sensitive areas and locate it in areas
not visible from major public rights of way or public property such as parks.
      3.   Adoption Of Recommendations: The project sponsor shall, before
undertaking the project, to the maximum extent feasible, adopt the
modifications and mitigation measures recommended by the planning commission,
or state in writing why adoption of such measures is not feasible, before the
project shall proceed.
      4.   Wetlands And Stream Corridors: All public utilities and public works
constructed or undertaken within significant wetlands and significant stream
corridors and their respective setbacks, including, but not limited to, water
and sewer projects, pipelines, electrical supply facilities and wires, roads
and trails, shall be governed pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
subsection A. They shall be exempted from the requirements of subsection 9-10-
2D of this chapter; providing, that: a) no practical alternative location
exists outside the significant wetland and significant stream corridor and
their respective setbacks; and b) the project meets the technical guidelines
defined below:
         a.   To the maximum extent feasible, disturbed areas within the
setbacks shall be revegetated using native species common to the native
vegetation community.
         b.   Maintenance access shall be provided at specific access points
rather than parallel access roads. To the extent that access roads must be
located within a corridor, the roads shall be kept to a minimum width. Parallel
access roads shall be sited contiguous to the utility corridor to minimize
disturbance and shall be sited on the outside edge of the utility corridor away
from the resource.
         c.   Surface materials used for trail construction and other access
routes shall be approved by the town.
         d.   Road construction techniques for stream crossings shall use
appropriate methods demonstrated to provide fisheries protection.
      5.   Emergency Repairs: In the event of an emergency that requires
immediate action to protect the health and safety of the general public, such
action may go forward without the immediate consent of the planning commission.
The planning commission shall be consulted at the earliest stage reasonably
possible in the construction/repair phase.
      6.   Maintenance: Maintenance projects shall proceed only after
notification of and approval by the town staff. If the town, due to the size or
nature of the maintenance activity, determines that it may have a significant
adverse impact on the sensitive areas, the project shall proceed through the
review procedures set forth in subsections A1 through A5 of this section.
   B.   Substantial Compliance: To avoid unnecessary review by town consultants
and/or agencies and disputes over the application of the sensitive lands
overlay zone provisions, whenever there are practical difficulties over the
application of the provisions or whenever the aims of this title can be better
achieved through alternatives to strict compliance, the planning commission may
make specific modifications to strict compliance with the sensitive lands
overlay zone ordinance provisions.
   C.   Economic Hardship Relief Provisions:
      1.   Hardship Relief Petition: Any applicant for development, after a
final decision on its development application is taken by the town council, may
file a hardship relief petition with the board of adjustment seeking relief
from certain of the sensitive lands regulations on the basis that the denial of
the application has created a substantial economic hardship, depriving the
applicant of all reasonable use of his property.
      2.   Affected Property Interest: The hardship relief petition must
provide information sufficient for the board of adjustment and the town
attorney to determine that the petitioner possesses a protectable interest in
property under article I, section 22 of the constitution of state and the fifth
amendment to the United States constitution.
      3.   Economic Hardship Standard: For purposes of this subsection, a
"substantial economic hardship" shall be defined as a denial of all reasonable
use of the property. Upon a finding that the denial of the application has
resulted in a denial of all reasonable use of the property, the board of
adjustment may provide the petitioner with relief from certain of the overlay
zone and/or sensitive lands regulations.
      4.   Time For Filing Notice Of Petition And Petition: No later than ten
(10) calendar days from final action by the town council on any development
application, the applicant shall file a notice of petition, in writing, with
the town recorder. Within thirty (30) days of filing of a notice of petition,
the applicant shall file a hardship relief petition with the town recorder.
      5.   Information To Be Submitted With Hardship Relief Petition: The
hardship relief petition must be submitted in letter form or on a form prepared
by the planning commission or staff and must be accompanied at a minimum by the
following information:
         a.   Name of the petitioner;
         b.   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form
of ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for profit or not for profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and if owned by a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, name and address of all principal
shareholders or partners;
         c.   Price paid and other terms of sale of the property, the date of
purchase, and the name of the party from whom purchased, including the
relationship, if any, between the petitioner and the party from whom the
property was acquired;
         d.   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such
as, but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
         e.   Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of
a full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
         f.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose,
including financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the
three (3) years prior to the date of application;
         g.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for
the previous three (3) years;
         h.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans
secured by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current
interest rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other
significant provisions, including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to
assume the loan;
         i.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
         j.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agent of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
         k.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three (3) years; and
         l.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property;
The town staff or the board of adjustment may request additional information
reasonably necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a final conclusion
concerning whether there has been a denial of all reasonable use constituting a
substantial economic hardship.
      6.   Failure To Submit Information: In the event that any of the
information required to be submitted by the petitioner is not reasonably
available, the petitioner shall file with the petition a statement of the
information that cannot be obtained and shall describe the reasons why such
information is unavailable.
      7.   Burden Of Proof: The petitioner shall have the burden of proving
that the denial of the application creates a substantial economic hardship
under the standard provided in subsection C3 of this section.
      8.   Findings Of Board Of Adjustment: The board of adjustment shall,
after receiving all the necessary information, hold a public hearing, pursuant
to regulations as contained in chapter 5 of this title. The board of adjustment
shall make their decision on the basis of the evidence and testimony presented,
and address the following issues in its report or its findings:
         a.   Whether the petitioner has complied with the requirements for
presenting the information to be submitted with a hardship relief petition;
         b.   Whether the petitioner has a protectable interest in property;
         c.   The market value of the property considering the sensitive lands
overlay zone designation;
         d.   The market value of the property disregarding the sensitive lands
overlay zone designation;
         e.   The market value of or benefit accruing from opportunities to
transfer density or cluster development on other remaining contiguous property
owned by the petitioner eligible for such transfer as provided herein;
         f.   Whether it was feasible to undertake construction on or
development of the property as of the date of the application, or in the
reasonably near future thereafter;
         g.   Whether, in the opinion of the board of adjustment, the denial of
the application would create a "substantial economic hardship", as defined in
subsection C3 of this section. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-10-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain unique terms and words used herein
shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth in this section and in
chapter 2 of this title:
COMPATIBLE: A development is compatible with an existing development or
property if its architectural features, building height and materials, approved
uses, intensity of such use and other features are complementary and do not
have a significant adverse economic and aesthetic impact on the existing
development or property, including agricultural properties.
CREST OF HILL: The highest point on a hill or slope as measured continuously
throughout the property. Any given property may have more than one hillcrest.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL APPLICATION: Includes any application for any development
approval, including, but not limited to, grubbing, grading, an alteration or
revision to an approved MPD, zoning or rezoning, subdivision or annexation. The
term "development approval application" shall not include any building permits
associated with construction within an approved subdivision or on an existing
platted lot unless otherwise specified.
MAXIMUM EXTENT FEASIBLE: No prudent, practical and feasible alternative exists,
and all possible planning to minimize potential harm has been undertaken.
Economic considerations may be taken into account but shall not be the
overriding factor in determining maximum extent feasible.
OPEN SPACE: Shall have the meaning set forth in section
9-2-1 of this title.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: The line on the bank to which the high water
ordinarily rises annually in season as indicated by changes in the
characteristics of soil, vegetation or other appropriate means which consider
the characteristics of the surrounding areas. Where the ordinary high water
mark cannot be found, the top of the channel bank shall be substituted. In
braided channels, the ordinary high water mark or substitute shall be measured
so as to include the entire stream feature.
QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL: A professionally trained person with the requisite
academic degree, experience and professional certification or license in the
field or fields relating to the subject matter being studied or analyzed.
RIDGELINE AREAS: The crest of a hill or slope, plus the land located within two
hundred feet (200') horizontally (map distance) on either side of the crest.
SIGNIFICANT WETLAND: All wetlands which occupy a surface area greater than one-
tenth (1/10) acre or are associated with permanent surface water or which are
adjacent to or contiguous with a stream corridor.
SLOPE: The level of inclination of land from the horizontal determined by
dividing the horizontal run of the slope into the vertical rise of the same
slope and converting the resulting figure into a percentage value. For purposes
of regulation and measurement, slopes must cover at least twenty five feet
(25') vertically and fifty feet (50') horizontally.
STEEP SLOPE: Slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%) but less than or equal
to thirty percent (30%).
STREAM: Those streams, excluding ditches and canals constructed for irrigation
and drainage purposes, that flow year round or intermittently during years of
normal rainfall.
STREAM CORRIDOR: The corridor defined by the stream's ordinary high water mark.
SUBDIVISION AND MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT CODE: The official Corinne City
subdivision and master planned development code, adopted December 21, 1999, and
effective December 21, 1999, as amended, of which this chapter is a part.
SUBSTANTIAL ECONOMIC HARDSHIP: Denial of all reasonable economic use of the
property.
SUITABILITY DETERMINATION: A determination carried out by the planning
commission to ascertain if a development at increased densities due to a
density transfer from a sensitive area is compatible with development on
surrounding or adjacent property.
VANTAGE POINTS: A height of five feet (5') above a set reference marker that
functions to assist in analyzing the visual impact of development on hillsides
and steep slopes.
WILDLAND INTERFACE ZONE: Those areas with special safety considerations because
of their location on the urban fringe. All areas within the sensitive lands
overlay zone shall be considered to be in the wildland interface zone unless
the fire marshal shall determine otherwise. (Ord., 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 20-02,
3-17-2020)
9-10-5: DESIGN STANDARDS:
All private development within the sensitive lands overlay zone shall comply
with the following design standards which supplement, and supersede in the case
of a conflict, any design standards in effect and adopted by the town:
   A.   Building Color And Material: All buildings shall be constructed of
material of a muted earth tone color that reflects the dominant color of the
surrounding vegetation.
   B.   Windows And Other Glass: Glass areas shall be reviewed to avoid highly
reflective surfaces. Mirrored glazing is prohibited on any building, except
that solar absorption glazing is an acceptable material.
   C.   Parking: Subdivision lots and streets shall be designed so that
wherever possible parking is located behind buildings on the uphill lots. Uses
other than single-family residences shall break up parking areas into smaller
lots that should be located in linear strips running parallel to the slope
contours. The perimeter of parking areas shall be screened with vegetation,
fencing or other architectural or natural elements.
   D.   Rooftop Mechanical Equipment: All rooftop mechanical equipment,
including HVAC equipment and similar appurtenances, must be screened so as not
to be visible from nearby properties or hillsides above the equipment.
   E.   Roof Pitch, Color And Materials: The pitch of any roof shall generally
parallel the slope upon which the building is located, but in any case shall
not exceed a height to horizontal ratio of nine to twelve (9:12) and shall not
descend closer than seven feet (7') from the ground. The minimum roof pitch
shall be four to twelve (4:12). Roofs shall be of a dark muted earth tone color
in a shade of dark gray, dark brown or black that reflects the dominant color
of the surrounding vegetation.
   F.   Height Controls: Upon review of any subdivision or MPD within the
sensitive lands overlay zone, an analysis of appropriate building heights will
be conducted. Based upon the visual analysis, building heights may be reduced
for all or part of a proposed development.
   G.   Dwelling Size: Maximum single-family dwelling size shall be evaluated
at the time of project approval, taking into consideration visual impact and
community character.
   H.   Underground Utilities: All utility lines in steep slope developments
shall be underground, except that the town planning commission or staff may
allow aboveground utilities if burying would result in severe damage to
significant vegetation or sensitive environmental areas.
   I.   Wood Roofs: Wood roofs are allowed. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
9-10-6: TREE AND VEGETATION PROTECTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Additional Regulations: The following provisions and mitigation
measures are hereby adopted as enhancements to existing limits of disturbance
regulations contained in chapter 8 of this title and must be adequately
studied. These regulations will apply to new and existing platted subdivisions
in the sensitive lands overlay zone, including the following criteria to be
used in establishing limits of disturbance:
      1.   Visual impacts of the development, including, but not limited to,
screening from adjacent properties, ridgeline areas protection and protection
of critical viewsheds, as defined in the sensitive lands regulations, section
9-10-1 of this chapter.
      2.   Erosion prevention and control, including, but not limited to,
protection of natural drainage channels.
      3.   Fire prevention and safety, including, but not limited to, location
of trees and vegetation near structures.
      4.   Irrigation and water conservation.
      5.   Wildlife habitat, including, but not limited to, preservation of
critical wildlife habitat and migration routes.
      6.   Stream and wetland protection and buffering.
   B.   Tree/Vegetation Removal: No trees or vegetation within the sensitive
lands overlay zone shall be removed for the purpose of providing open views to
or from structures on a site.
   C.   Irrigation Limits: The amount of irrigated area shall be minimized
depending on the amount of existing natural vegetation on the site prior to
construction and type of irrigation systems proposed to be used.
   D.   Revegetation Plan: All applicants for developments on land subject to
sensitive lands regulations involving cut and fill and graded slopes shall
submit a revegetation and landscaping plan for approval by the planning
commission. The plan shall depict the type, size and location of any vegetation
and trees being planted and illustrate how the site will be recontoured in such
a fashion and with sufficient topsoil to ensure that revegetation is feasible.
The plan shall also indicate a time frame for revegetation which is acceptable
to the town. Retaining walls shall be used to provide breaks in manmade steep
slopes exceeding fifteen percent (15%) and to provide planting pockets.
   E.   Violation/Replacement Provision: Any applicant who violates the
provisions of this subsection by removing trees or vegetation or exceeding the
prescribed limit of disturbance shall replace two (2) for one in number all
trees/vegetation illegally removed. Size of trees planted in replacement of
illegally removed trees must be approved by the town. (Ord., 1-18-2005)
CHAPTER 11
AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Saving Clause
9-11-2: Purpose And Intent
9-11-3: General Provisions
9-11-4: Definitions
9-11-5: Airport Zoning Commission
9-11-6: Airport Board Of Adjustment
9-11-7: Schedule Of Uses
9-11-8: Airport Master Plan
9-11-9: Airport Overlay Zones
9-11-10: Regulations
9-11-11: Notification
9-11-12: Airport Development Standards
9-11-1: SAVING CLAUSE:
   A.   The enactment of this chapter shall not:
      1.   Affect suits pending or rights existing immediately prior to the
effective date hereof; or
      2.   Impair, void or affect any grant or conveyance made or right
acquired or cause of action now existing under any repealed provision or
amendment thereto.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter, insofar as they are the same or
substantially the same as those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not as a new enactment. (Ord., 9-5-
2006)
9-11-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   It is hereby found that an airport hazard endangers the lives and
property of users in the Brigham City airport and of occupants of land or to
property in its vicinity. Such hazard also reduces the size of the area
available for landing, taking off and maneuvering of aircraft, and it tends to
destroy or impair the utility of the Brigham City municipal airport and the
public investment therein.
   B.   Accordingly, it is declared that:
      1.   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the Brigham City municipal
airport;
      2.   It is necessary in the interest of public health, public safety and
general welfare that the creation or establishment of an airport hazard be
prevented; and
      3.   The prevention of those hazards should be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
   C.   It is further declared that both the prevention of the creation or
establishment of airport hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration,
mitigation or marking and lighting of existing airport hazards are public
purposes for which political subdivisions may raise and expend public funds and
acquire lands or interests in land. (Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   These regulations reinforce specific provisions in the Brigham City
municipal airport master plan (May 2, 1996), as amended, and the Brigham City
general plan (January 15, 1998), as amended.
   B.   The boundary of any officially recognized airport overlay zones shall
be as it appears on a map and/or other documents approved by the town council.
   C.   Note that only two (2) overlay zones apply to the town, airport
influence area (AIA) and traffic pattern zone (TPZ). (Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: The Brigham City municipal airport, or any area of land designated and
used for the landing and taking off of aircraft.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area,
measured in feet from mean sea level. This elevation is four thousand two
hundred twenty five and one-half feet (4,225.5') MSL as of the date of the
ordinance codified herein.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure or use of land which actually or potentially
obstructs the airspace required for the safe flight of aircraft in landing or
taking off at an airport.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
section
9-11-9 of this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES: These zones are set forth
in section
9-11-9 of this chapter.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
FAR PART 77: Federal aviation administration regulations pertaining to height
and obstruction criteria within prescribed distances from an airport as these
regulations currently exist, and as may be amended from time to time. Part 77
regulations may also affect lands located outside the boundaries of the defined
airport influence area.
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in subsection 9-11-10G of this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum
shall be the mean sea level (MSL) elevation, unless otherwise specified.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
Ldn: Yearly day-night average sound level.
MSL: Mean sea level.
NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or
area type navigation equipment, for which a straight in, nonprecision
instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned. It also means a
runway for which a nonprecision approach system is planned and is so indicated
on an approved airport layout plan or any other planning document.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile object,
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in subsection 9-11-10G of this
chapter.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or governmental entity; includes a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS), a precision approach
radar (PAR), a global positioning system (GPS), a transponder landing system
(TLS) or other systems providing both horizontal and vertical guidance. It also
means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so
indicated on an approved airport layout plan, or any other planning document.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends five hundred
feet (500') beyond each side of the runway and two hundred feet (200') beyond
the end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point in the runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but not limited to, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formations and overhead transmission lines.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90o)
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend a distance of five thousand feet (5,000'), measured
horizontally from the edge of the approach surface and at ninety degree (90o)
angles to the extended runway centerline.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds'
maximum gross weight and less.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures. (Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-5: AIRPORT ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Designated: The town planning commission is designated as the airport
zoning commission, as prescribed in Utah Code Annotated section 72-10-405.
   B.   References To Commission: In this title and state law, any references
to the airport zoning commission shall mean the town planning commission.
   C.   Powers: If the planning commission is empowered in this title to take
actions that are duties of the airport zoning commission as prescribed in state
law, the planning commission shall be presumed to be functioning as the airport
zoning commission.
   D.   Duties: The airport zoning commission shall recommend boundaries of the
various zones to be established and the regulations to be adopted pertaining to
any airport hazard area, and to perform such other duties as may be assigned to
it by the town council or state law. (Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-6: AIRPORT BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Designated: The town board of adjustment is designated as the airport
board of adjustment, as prescribed in Utah Code Annotated section 72-10-408.
   B.   References To Board: In this title and state law, any references to the
airport board of adjustment shall mean the town board of adjustment.
   C.   Powers: If the board of adjustment is empowered in this title to take
actions that are duties of the airport board of adjustment as prescribed in
state law, the board of adjustment shall be presumed to be functioning as the
airport board of adjustment.
   D.   Duties: The airport board of adjustment shall hear issues pertaining to
any airport hazard area and to perform such other duties as may be assigned to
it by the town council or state law. (Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-7: SCHEDULE OF USES:
The following table indicates the uses and conditions required of those uses
within the five (5) designated zones for the airport:
TABLE OF USES
  Airport         Traffic Pattern Outer Approach Inner Approach 65 Ldn Noise
 Influence Area  Zone (TPZ)      Zone (OAZ)     Zone (IAZ)     Area (NA)
  (AIA)
               Airport    Traffic      Outer         Inner         65 Ldn Noise
              Influence  Pattern Zone Approach Zone Approach Zone Area (NA)
               Area (AIA) (TPZ)        (OAZ)         (IAZ)
Residential:
Single-family,
multi-family,
accessory
apartments,    C(6)       C(4)         C(3,4)        X             X
residential
facilities for
elderly/
handicapped
Public:
Schools,
libraries,     C(6)       C(4)         C(3,4)        X             X
churches
Parking,       P          P            P             C(5)          C(2,5)
cemeteries
Commercial And
Industrial:
Offices,
retail trade,
service
commercial,
wholesale,
trade,
warehousing,   P          C(6)         C(4)          C(1)          C(1)
light
industrial,
general
manufacturing,
utilities,
extractive
industry
Agricultural
And
Recreational:
Cropland       P          P            P             P             P
Livestock
breeding,
parks,
playgrounds,
zoos, golf     P          P            P             P             C(2)
courses,
riding
stables, water
recreation
Outdoor
spectator      P          C(3)         C(3,4)        X             X
sports
Amphitheaters  C          C(3)         X             X             X
Open space     P          P            P             P             P
Notes:
(1)   If allowed, avigation easements and disclosure must be required as a
condition of development.
(2)   Any structures associated with uses allowed in the 65 Ldn noise contour
must be located outside the 65 Ldn noise contour.
(3)   If no reasonable alternative exists, use should be located as far from
extended centerline as possible.
(4)   If allowed, disclosure of airport proximity must be required as a
condition of development. An avigation easement should be considered based on
proximity to runway centerline.
(5)   Transportation facilities in the 65 Ldn noise contour (i.e., roads,
railroads, waterways) must be configured to comply with part 77 requirements.
(6)   Disclosure of airport proximity should be required as a condition of
development.
 
(Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-8: AIRPORT MASTER PLAN:
All uses and regulations pertaining to the airport overlay zone shall be in
compliance with and subject to the provisions of the airport master plan,
airport layout plan and noise contour map as adopted by the town council, or as
amended, and is incorporated into this chapter by reference as it pertains to
airport land uses. (Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-9: AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Brigham City municipal airport. An area located
in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone
with the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby
established and defined as follows:
   A.   Airport Influence Area (AIA): An area which is recognized by the town
council as containing lands which might be affected by noise and/or safety
hazards associated with aircraft operations associated with Brigham City
municipal airport. The AIA extends from the airport to the outer edge of the
conical surface.
   B.   Traffic Pattern Zone (TPZ): This zone extends from the centerline of
runway 34/16 to the outer edge of the horizontal surface.
   C.   65 Ldn Noise Area (NA): The area within the sixty five (65) decibel
yearly day-night average sound level.
   D.   Inner Approach Zone (IAZ): The area within the FAR part 77 approach
surface for each runway.
      1.   Runway 16 Approach Zone: An approach zone is established at the end
of runway 16 for utility landings and takeoffs. The approach zone shall have a
width of five hundred feet (500') at a distance of two hundred feet (200')
beyond the end of the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of one
thousand ten feet (1,010') at a distance of one thousand seven hundred feet
(1,700') beyond the end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of
the centerline of the runway. The approach zone shall rise one foot (1') in
height for each twenty feet (20') in horizontal distance beginning at a point
two hundred feet (200') from and at the centerline elevation of the runway and
extending to a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') from the end of the
runway.
      2.   Runway 34 Precision Approach Zone: A precision instrument approach
zone is established at the end of runway 34. The precision instrument approach
zone shall have a width of one thousand feet (1,000') at a distance of two
hundred feet (200') beyond the end of the runway; widening thereafter uniformly
to a width of one thousand seven hundred fifty feet (1,750') at a distance of
two thousand seven hundred feet (2,700') beyond the end of the runway. The
precision instrument approach zone shall rise one foot (1') in height for each
fifty feet (50') in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred feet
(200') from and at the centerline elevation of the precision instrument runway
and extending to a point ten thousand two hundred feet (10,200') from the end
of the runway.
   E.   Outer Approach Zone (OAZ): The area within the FAR part 77 outer
approach surface for runway 34 is established at ten thousand two hundred feet
(10,200') from the end of runway 34, with a width of two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') widening thereafter uniformly to a width of sixteen thousand feet
(16,000') at a distance of fifty thousand two hundred feet (50,200') beyond the
end of the runway. This approach zone will rise one foot (1') in height for
each forty feet (40') in horizontal distance beginning at a point ten thousand
two hundred feet (10,200') from and at the centerline elevation of the
precision instrument runway and extending to a point fifty thousand two hundred
feet (50,200') from the end of the runway.
   F.   Transitional Zones: The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   G.   Horizontal Zones: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs
of ten thousand foot (10,000') radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of runway 34/16 and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.
   H.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). (Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-10: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Uses: Conforming uses only.
   B.   Regulations And Development Standards: All uses in the airport overlay
zones shall be subject to the regulations of this chapter and prescribed
development standards within the airport master plan, as amended.
   C.   Hazards: Creation of airport hazards is prohibited.
   D.   Enhancing Airport Hazard: No variance, permit or use shall be allowed
in the airport hazard area that would create or enhance an airport hazard,
except as allowed by Box Elder County ordinances, specifically ordinances 177,
254 and 272, which outline Box Elder County burn ordinance and burn permits, or
related ordinances.
   E.   Use And Operational Limitations Within The Airport Overlay Zones:
      1.   No use shall be permitted which:
         a.   Creates or tends to create electrical interference to
navigational devices and communication between aircraft and airports.
         b.   Creates or tends to create gas, smoke, dust, glare or other
visual hazards in the atmosphere around airports or in the airport hazard area.
         c.   Creates or tends to create structures that interfere with
aircraft safety.
         d.   Creates or tends to create any type of hazard for the airport
that would inhibit or constrain safe and acceptable airport operations.
      2.   Except as exempted in subsection F3 of this section, or as otherwise
provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected, altered or maintained,
and no tree shall be allowed to grow, in any zone created by this chapter to a
height in excess of the applicable height limit herein established for such
zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the
zones in question as follows:
         a.   Runway 16 visual approach zone: One foot (1') in height for each
twenty feet (20') in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred feet
(200') from and at the centerline elevation of the end of the runway and
extending a distance of five thousand two hundred feet (5,200') from the end of
runway 16.
         b.   Runway 34 precision instrument approach zone: One foot (1') in
height for each fifty feet (50') in horizontal distance beginning at a point
two hundred feet (200') from and at the centerline elevation of the end of the
runway and extending a distance of ten thousand two hundred feet (10,200') from
the end of the runway.
         c.   Transitional zone: One foot (1') in height for each seven feet
(7') in horizontal distance beginning at any point two hundred fifty feet
(250') normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of the runway,
extending two hundred feet (200') beyond each end thereof, and five hundred
feet (500') normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of the runway,
extending two hundred feet (200') beyond each end thereof, extending to a
height of one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation. In
addition, there are established height limits of one foot (1') vertical height
for each seven feet (7') horizontal distance measured from the edges of all
approach zones for the entire length of the approach zone and extending upward
and outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal or conical
surfaces.
         d.   Horizontal zone: One hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport
elevation or a height of four thousand two hundred twenty five and one-half
feet (4,225.5') above mean sea level (MSL).
         e.   Conical zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each one foot
(1') upward beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one
hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation (4,375.5 feet MSL) and
extending to a height of three hundred fifty feet (350') (4,725.5 feet MSL)
above the airport elevation.
      3.   Exemptions to height limitations include:
         a.   Any object that would be shielded by existing structures of a
permanent and substantial character, or by natural terrain or topographic
features of equal or greater height, and would be located in the congested area
of a city, town or settlement where it is beyond all reasonable doubt that the
structure so shielded will not adversely affect safety in air navigation.
         b.   Structures up to and including thirty five feet (35') in height
above the ground level at its site where the ground elevation at its site is
less than or equal to thirty five feet (35') below the height limitations
defined in subsection 9-11-9F2 of this chapter, and is beyond all reasonable
doubt that the structure will not adversely affect safety in air navigation. If
in doubt, submission of FAA form 7460-1, notice of proposed construction (as
described in section
9-11-11 of this chapter), shall be used to determine its effect on safety in
air navigation. (Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-11: NOTIFICATION:
   A.   Required: Except as provided in subsection B of this section, and in
addition to all other local notification and permitting requirements, each
person who proposes any of the following construction or alteration shall
complete and submit an FAA form 7460-1, notice of proposed construction, to the
local jurisdiction and to the federal aviation administration in accordance
with federal aviation regulation part 77, object affecting navigable airspace.
      1.   Any construction or alteration of more than two hundred feet (200')
in height above the ground level at its site.
      2.   Any construction or alteration of greater height than an imaginary
surface extending outward and upward at a slope of one hundred to one (100:1)
for a horizontal distance of twenty thousand feet (20,000') from the nearest
point of the nearest runway at the Brigham City municipal airport.
   B.   Exemptions: Exemptions from notification include:
      1.   Any object that would be shielded by existing structures of a
permanent and substantial character or by natural terrain or topographic
features of equal or greater height, and would be located in the congested area
of a city, town or settlement where it is beyond all reasonable doubt that the
structure so shielded will not adversely affect safety in air navigation.
      2.   Any antenna structure twenty feet (20') or less in height, except
one that would increase the height of any antenna structure.
   C.   Time Of Notice: The notice required under subsection A of this section
must be submitted at least thirty (30) days before the earlier of the following
dates:
      1.   The date the proposed construction or alteration is to begin.
      2.   The date an application for a construction permit is to be filed.
(Ord., 9-5-2006)
9-11-12: AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The town council may adopt by resolution or enact by ordinance uniform
development standards and procedures for facilities within the airport
property. (Ord., 9-5-2006)
CHAPTER 12
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-12-1: Title
9-12-2: Definitions
9-12-3: Planning Commission Duties
9-12-4: Minimum Size For Agriculture Protection Areas
9-12-5: Fees For Accepting And Processing Proposals
9-12-6: Filing Procedure
9-12-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the AGRICULTURE PROTECTION ACT OF CORINNE CITY.
(Ord. 07-01A, 10-2-2007)
9-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ADVISORY BOARD: The agriculture protection advisory board appointed by the Box
Elder County commission and Corinne City planning commission.
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Production for commercial purposes of crops, livestock
and livestock production.
   A.   Agriculture production includes the processing or retail marketing of
any crops, livestock and livestock products when more than fifty percent (50%)
of the processed or merchandised products is produced by the farm operator.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA: A geographic area created under the authority of
this chapter that is granted the specific legal protection contained in this
chapter.
CONTINUOUS: Parcels touching or divided only by a city, county, or state
roadway.
CROPS, LIVESTOCK AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS: Includes:
   A.   Land devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a
reasonable expectation of profit, including:
      1.   Forages and sod crops;
      2.   Grains and feed crops;
      3.   Livestock, meaning all domestic animals, honeybees, poultry,
furbearing animals and fish;
      4.   Trees and fruits; or
      5.   Vegetables, nursery, floral and ornamental stock; or
   B.   Lands devoted to and meeting the requirements and qualifications for
payments or other compensation under a crop-land retirement program with an
agency of the state or federal government.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: The city, county school district, or special district.
PROPOSED SPONSORS: The owners of land in agricultural production who are
sponsoring the proposal for creating an agricultural protection area.
STATE AGENCY: Each department, commission, board, council, agency, institution,
officer, corporation, fund, division, office, committee, authority, laboratory,
library, unit, bureau, panel or other administrative unit of the state. (Ord.
07-01A, 10-2-2007)
9-12-3: PLANNING COMMISSION DUTIES:
The Corinne City planning commission will perform the duties set out in Utah
Code Annotated section 17-41-303, or any later amendment or enactment of that
section. (Ord. 07-01A, 10-2-2007)
9-12-4: MINIMUM SIZE FOR AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-301(5), or any later amendment or
enactment of that section, at least:
   A.   A two (2) acre or more qualifying continuous (touching) parcel(s) that
is owned by the operator of the operation is required to start an APA. Smaller
qualifying parcels that are contiguous and owned by the same owner/operator may
be combined to achieve two (2) or more acres.
   B.   A two (2) acre or more qualifying continuous (touching) parcel(s) owned
by the same owner may join the APA application.
   C.   A parcel of less than two (2) acres that is qualifying and contiguous
to other APA property may join the application if the parcel is owned by the
owner/operator of a contiguous APA qualified property. (Ord. 07-01A, 10-2-2007)
9-12-5: FEES FOR ACCEPTING AND PROCESSING PROPOSALS:
Any person or persons filing a proposal to create an agriculture protection
area pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 41, shall pay a fee at
the time of filing. The amount of the fee shall be established by resolution of
the Corinne City council. In addition, any person or persons filing a proposal
for creation of an agriculture protection area shall reimburse Corinne City for
all publication costs incurred by Corinne City in publishing the notices
required under Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 41, or any subsequent
amendment or enactment of that statute. (Ord. 07-01A, 10-2-2007)
9-12-6: FILING PROCEDURE:
   A.   All proposals to create agriculture protection areas within Corinne
City shall be filed in the office of the Corinne City clerk. All proposals must
be accompanied by the filing fee established by the Corinne City council.
   B.   All owners of property applying for the APA must sign a notarized
statement that they have read and understand the state and city requirements
for land to qualify for inclusion in the APA and that they certify that their
property complies.
   C.   The owner of record must sign the application for their property. If
more than one owner is listed, then the majority of owners must sign the
application.
   D.   Corinne City will allow for the signing by the holder of a proper power
of attorney.
   E.   APA qualified land must be zoned agriculture or wetlands that has
allowable agriculture uses by state or federal regulations.
   F.   Parcels with houses that are adjacent to qualifying agriculture land
and that are lived in and owned by the operator of the agricultural operation
may be included as per interpretation by the soil conservation review board.
(Ord. 07-01A, 10-2-2007)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS AND TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Adoption Of The Public Works Standards And Technical Specifications
9-13-1: ADOPTION OF THE PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS AND TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS:
The "Public Works Standards And Technical Specifications" prepared by J-U-
B Engineers for Corinne City is hereby adopted as set forth in exhibit A
attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by this
reference. A copy of the "Public Works Standards And Technical Specifications"
shall be maintained in the office of the town recorder as provided in state
law. (Ord. 10-01, 2-2-2010)
CHAPTER 14
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
9-14-1: Purpose
9-14-2: Scope And Applicability
9-14-3: Conformance With Applicable Codes
9-14-4: Regulations
9-14-5: Effective Date And Grandfathering Of Nonconforming Lights
9-14-6: New Subdivision Constructions
9-14-7: Violations And Legal Action
9-14-1: PURPOSE:
Outdoor lighting at night benefits everyone. It increases safety, enhances the
town's nighttime character, and helps provide security. New technologies have
produced lights that are extremely powerful. If installed improperly, such
lights create excessive glare, light trespass and pollute the night sky, and
higher energy use which in turn may cause safety problems and increased cost
for everyone. There is need for a lighting ordinance that recognizes the
benefit of the outdoor lighting and provides clear guidelines for its
installation to maintain and complement the town's character. Appropriately
regulated and properly installed outdoor lighting will contribute to the safety
and welfare of the residents of Corinne City. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-14-2: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Conformance To Chapter: All exterior outdoor lighting installed after
the effective date hereof in any and all zones in the town shall conform to the
requirements established by this chapter and any other applicable ordinances
unless otherwise exempted. This chapter does not apply to indoor lighting.
   B.   Law Governing Conflicts: Should this chapter be found to be in conflict
with any provisions of federal, state, county or town statutes, codes, or other
sections of the town ordinances, the more restrictive shall govern unless
otherwise required by law. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-14-3: CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES:
All outdoor electrically powered illuminating devices shall be installed in
conformance with the provisions of the Corinne City ordinances. (Ord. 13-01, 9-
3-2013)
9-14-4: REGULATIONS:
All outdoor lighting installed in the town of Corinne City shall be in
conformance with the requirements established by this chapter. All previous
language in this code requiring outdoor lighting is replaced with this chapter.
   A.   Control Of Glare/Design Factors:
      1.   Any lights with a lamp rated at a total of more than one thousand
eight hundred (1800) lumens, and all flood or spot lights with a lamp or lamps
rated at a total of more than nine hundred (900) lumens shall not emit any
direct light above a horizontal plane through the lowest direct light emitting
part of the lights.
      2.   Any lights with a lamp or lamps rated at a total more than one
thousand eight hundred (1800) lumens, and all flood or spot lights with a lamp
or lamps rated at a total of more than nine hundred (900) lumens, shall be
mounted at a height equal to or less than the value 3+(D/3), where D is the
distance in feet to the nearest property boundary. The maximum height of the
lights may not exceed twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Exceptions To Control Glare:
      1.   Any lights with a lamp or lamps rated at a total of one thousand
eight hundred (1800) lumens or less, and all flood or spot lights with a lamp
or lamps rated at nine hundred (900) lumens or less, may be used without
restrictions on light distribution or mounting heights, except that if any spot
of flood lights rated nine hundred (900) lumens or less are aimed, directed, or
focused such as to cause direct light from the luminaries to be directed toward
residential buildings or adjacent or nearby land, or creates glare perceptible
to persons operating motor vehicles on a public right of way, the lights shall
be redirected or their light output controlled as necessary to eliminate such
conditions.
      2.   Lights used for public roadway illumination may be installed at a
maximum height of thirty four feet (34') and may be positioned at that height
up to the edge of any bordering property.
      3.   Lights used primarily for sign illumination and property
illumination may be mounted at any height to a maximum of twenty five feet
(25'), regardless of the lumen rating.
   C.   Outdoor Advertising:
      1.   Mounting: Lighting fixtures used to illuminate an outdoor
advertising sign shall be mounted on the top of the sign structure. Bottom
mounted outdoor advertising sign lighting shall not be used.
      2.   Lamp Wattage: Outdoor advertising signs of the type constructed of
translucent materials and wholly illuminated from within do not require
shielding. Dark backgrounds with light lettering or symbols are preferred to
minimize detrimental effects. Unless conforming to the above dark background
preference, total lamp wattage per property shall be less than forty one (41)
watts.
      3.   Compliance Limit: Existing outdoor advertising structures shall be
brought into conformance with this chapter when it becomes necessary to make
major repairs (new permit) to the signage.
   D.   Recreational Facilities:
      1.   Any light source permitted by this chapter may be used for lighting
of outdoor recreational facilities (public or private), such as, but not
limited to, football fields, soccer fields, baseball fields, softball fields,
tennis courts, or show areas, provided all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   All fixtures used for the event lighting shall be fully shielded
and be designed or provided with sharp cutoff capability so as to maximize
uplight, spill light and glare. The maximum height of the lights may not exceed
twenty five feet (25').
         b.   All events shall be scheduled so as to complete all activity
before or as near to ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. as practical, but under no
circumstances shall any illumination of the playing field, court, or track be
permitted after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. except to conclude a scheduled
event that was in progress before eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and circumstances
prevented concluding before eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   E.   Parking Area Lighting:
      1.   Low pressure or high pressure sodium light sources are the only
allowed light sources for parking areas with five (5) or more spaces. Lighting
fixtures affixed to buildings for the purposes of lighting parking areas shall
be prohibited. Light levels should be designed with minimum light trespass off
site by using cutoff lights that are fully shielded with no light distributed
above the horizontal plane of the light.
         a.   Maximum Light Distribution: For uniformity in lighting and
prevention of shadows, an average horizontal light level of two (2) foot-
candles with a four to one (4:1) uniformity ratio over the site is the maximum
allowed.
   F.   Pole Height/Wattage/Design/Height:
      1.   Light mounting height must be, measured from the parking lot or
driveway surface, in the range of twelve feet (12') to twenty feet (20') as
determined by the planning department and/or the planning commission. The
maximum height shall only be allowed at the review and approval of the planning
department with specific findings. The determination shall be based on:
         a.   Review of site plan,
         b.   Proposed land uses,
         c.   Surrounding land uses,
         d.   Parking area size,
         e.   Building mass,
         f.   Location of the site with respect to other lighting sources,
         g.   Impacts on the adjacent properties,
         h.   Topography of site, and
         i.   Other features.
      2.   Light poles higher than sixteen feet (16') are appropriate only for
parking areas exceeding two hundred (200) stalls and not in close proximity to
residential areas.
   G.   Parking Area Wattage/Design Standard:
      1.   Lights for twelve foot (12') to sixteen foot (16') poles must not
exceed fifty (50) watts per fixture or one hundred five (105) watts per pole.
      2.   Lights for eighteen foot (18') and twenty foot (20') poles must not
exceed seventy five (75) watts per fixture or one hundred fifty (150) watts per
pole.
      3.   Wood fixtures and fixtures mounted on wooden poles are encouraged.
They must be naturally stained or painted in earth tones. If metal fixtures or
poles are used they should be black, dark brown or earth tone.
      4.   The base of the pole shall be treated with paint, stain, stucco or
another form of decorative cover. All attempts shall be made to place the base
of light poles within landscape areas.
   H.   Underground Parking Garage Entryways: Light sources within the first
thirty feet (30') of an open garage entryway must be high pressure sodium light
sources with partially shielded fixtures.
   I.   Submission Requirements: An application for development with off street
parking must contain the following:
      1.   Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of
illumination devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, installation and
electrical details;
      2.   Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports,
reflectors, and other devices, that may include, but is not limited to,
manufacture catalog cuts and drawings, including section where required;
      3.   Photometric data, such as that furnished by manufacturers or similar
showing the angle of the cutoff of light emission. A point by point light plan
may be required to determine the adequacy of the lighting over the site.
   J.   Nonconformance: All operable outdoor light fixtures lawfully installed,
that do not meet these lighting requirements, are considered to be
nonconforming fixtures. The applicant must bring such fixtures into compliance
with this code upon all modifications or changes to existing nonconforming
fixtures that require a building permit. On residential structures, only new
exterior fixtures on remodels or new additions must comply with these
requirements.
   K.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Laser Source Light: The use of laser source light or any similar
high intensity light for outdoor advertising or entertainment, when projected
above the horizontal is prohibited.
      2.   Lights That Move: Flashing, blinking, intermittent or other lights
that move or give the impression of movement are prohibited.
   L.   Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this
chapter:
      1.   Holiday lighting.
      2.   Traffic control signals and devices.
      3.   Temporary emergency lighting in use by law enforcement, fire
department, government agencies or other emergency services, including all
vehicular lights.
      4.   All hazard warning lights required by federal regulatory agencies
are exempt from the requirements of this chapter, except that all lights used
must be red and must be shown to be as close as possible to the federally
required minimum lumen output required for the specific task.
   M.   Temporary Outdoor Lighting: Any temporary outdoor lighting that
conforms to the requirements of this chapter shall be allowed. The planning
commission may permit nonconforming temporary outdoor lighting after
considering:
      1.   The public and/or private benefits that will result due to the
temporary lighting.
      2.   Any annoyance or safety problems that result from the use of the
temporary lighting.
      3.   The duration of the temporary nonconforming lighting.
The applicant shall submit a detailed description of the proposed temporary
nonconforming lighting to the planning commission, which shall consider the
request at a duly called meeting of the planning commission. Prior notice of
the meeting of the planning commission shall be given to the applicant. The
planning commission shall render its decision on the temporary lighting request
within two (2) weeks of the date of the meeting. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-14-5: EFFECTIVE DATE AND GRANDFATHERING OF NONCONFORMING LIGHTS:
   A.   This chapter shall take place effective immediately upon approval by
the town council and shall supersede and replace all previous ordinances
pertaining to outdoor lighting.
   B.   All lights lawfully in place prior to the date of ordinance 13-01 shall
be allowed. However, any lights that replace allowed lights, or any allowed
light that is moved, must meet the standard of this chapter.
   C.   Allowed lights that direct light toward streets or parking lots that
cause disability glare to motorists or cyclists shall be either shielded or
redirected within ninety (90) days of notification of the property owner so
that the lights do not cause a potential hazard to motorists or cyclists. (Ord.
13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-14-6: NEW SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Submission Content: The applicant for any permit required by any
provision of the laws of this jurisdiction in connection with the proposed work
involving outdoor lighting fixtures shall submit (as part of the application
for permit) evidence that the proposed work will comply with this title. The
submission shall contain, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the
following, all or part of which may be part or in addition to the information
required elsewhere in the law of this jurisdiction upon application for the
required permit.
      1.   Plans indicating the location on the premises and the type of
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other devices.
      2.   Description of the illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports,
reflectors, and other devices. Submission may include catalog cuts by
manufacture and drawing.
      3.   Photo data, such as that furnished by manufacturer, or similar data
showing the angle of cutoff or light emissions.
   B.   Additional Submission: The above required plans, descriptions and data
shall be sufficiently complete to enable the plan examiner to readily determine
whether compliance with the requirements of this chapter will be secured. If
such plans, descriptions and data cannot enable this ready determination by
reason of the nature or configuration of the devices, fixtures, or lamps
proposed, the applicant shall additionally submit as evidence of compliance
certified reports performed and certified by a recognized laboratory.
   C.   Subdivision Plat Certification: If any subdivision proposes to have
installed street or other common or public area outdoor lighting, the final
plat shall contain a statement certifying compliance with the applicable
provisions of the Corinne City outdoor lighting ordinance.
   D.   Lamp Or Fixture Substitution: Should any outdoor light fixture or the
type of light source therein be changed after the permit has been issued, a
change request must be submitted to the Corinne City planning commission for
approval, together with adequate information to assure compliance with this
chapter, which must be received prior to substitution. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-2013)
9-14-7: VIOLATIONS AND LEGAL ACTION:
If after investigation, the code enforcement officer finds that any provision
of this chapter is being violated the office may elect to file notice by hand
delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested, of such violation to
the owner and/or the occupant of such premises demanding the violation be
abated within thirty (30) days from the date of hand delivery or date of
mailing notice. If the violation is not abated within the thirty (30) day
period, the code enforcement officer may institute actions and proceedings,
either legal or equitable, to enjoin, restrain, or abate any violations of this
chapter and to collect the penalties for such violations. (Ord. 13-01, 9-3-
2013)
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Statutory Authorization
10-1-2: Findings Of Fact
10-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Utah has delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, Corinne City, Utah, does ordain as follows. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Corinne City are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this
title its most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform, which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-9, VO, VI-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and b) adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by
means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30,
VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the standards of section
60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this title when
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this title. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Lands To Which This Title Applies
10-3-2: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-3-3: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-3-4: Compliance
10-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-3-6: Interpretation
10-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS TITLE APPLIES:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of Corinne City. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study For Corinne Dated September 29, 2010, Box Elder County", with
accompanying flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM
and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this title. Corinne City automatically adopts all
effective FEMA flood insurance rate maps and all effective FEMA flood insurance
studies. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 10-05,
8-3-2010)
10-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall
not create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-4-3: Permit Procedures
10-4-4: Variance Procedures
10-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The town council, or its designee, is hereby appointed the floodplain
administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this title and
other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program
regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this title.
   B.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this title.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the Utah national flood insurance coordinator,
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal emergency management agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
10-3-2 of this title, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-4-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection 10-5-2B of this title;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 10-4-2A of this chapter.
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this title and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-4-4: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The appeal board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this title.
   B.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this title.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this title.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection J of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
title, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this title
(section
10-1-3 of this title).
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this section are
met, and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
10-5-1: General Standards
10-5-2: Specific Standards
10-5-3: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
10-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in: a) section
10-3-2 of this title, b) subsection 10-4-2H of this title, or c) subsection 10-
5-3C of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above six inches (6") above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this
subsection as proposed in subsection 10-4-3A3 of this title, is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
six inches (6") above the base flood level or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below six inches (6") above the
base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or
review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and
shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of
such certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
floodplain administrator.
   C.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
within zone A on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods
and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
10-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
10-1-2,
10-1-3, and
10-1-4 of this title.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of sections
10-3-3 and
10-3-4 of this title; and the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
10-3-2 or subsection 10-4-2H of this title.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 10-05, 8-3-2010)
