COUNTY CODE
OF
DAGGETT COUNTY, UT
2017
Code current through:
Ord. 20-13, passed November 4, 2020
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the County of Daggett, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 20-13, passed November 4, 2020. Ordinances of the
County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
County office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
DAGGETT COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations; Possession
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the Official County Code of
Daggett County. This Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the DAGGETT
COUNTY CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of County
Commissioners and shall be kept up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal document. (2017 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the County of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2017 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2017 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS; POSSESSION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Board of County Commissioners. The County Clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of
the County Clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this
Code shall make every effort to maintain this Code in an up to date and
efficient manner and shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available through the Office of the
County Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the County and
shall be returned to the Office of the County Clerk when directed so to do by
order of the Board of County Commissioners. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the County passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
County; and all special ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this Code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (2017 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the County
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
County under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Code. (2017 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Code, or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of County
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one (1) or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Board of County Commissioners may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other County officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one (1) person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "Recorder", "Treasurer", etc., such reference shall be construed as if
followed by the words "of Daggett County, Utah".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2017 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of County
Commissioners of Daggett County, Utah.
COUNTY: The County of Daggett, State of Utah.
COUNTY CODE: The County Code of Daggett County, Utah, and amendments thereto.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the County for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation, or other activity subject to County regulation,
authorization or limitation.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
STATE: The State of Utah.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Printing and any other mode of representing words and
letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by law to any
official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper handwriting of
such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such person's proper
mark. (2017 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance:
      1.   Criminal: The Board of County Commissioners may impose a minimum
criminal penalty for the violation of any Municipal ordinance by a fine not to
exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section
76-3-301 or by a term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine
and term of imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the Board
of County Commissioners may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation
of any Municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B
misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A Municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a Municipal moving traffic ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors: A person who has been convicted
of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a Class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a Class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions:
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a Class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons: A person convicted of an offense may be sentenced to
pay a fine, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a Class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a Class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations: The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon a
corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this Code, or the ordinances of the County, or for an
offense defined outside of this Code over which this County has jurisdiction,
for which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount
fixed by the court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a Class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a Class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2017 Code)
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this Code or the
ordinances of this County shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this Code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified:
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this Code or any ordinance of this County when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a Class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this Code or other
ordinances of this County, or which is expressly designated an infraction and
any offense designated by this Code or other ordinances of this County which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this Code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Board Meetings
1-5-2: Order Of Business
1-5-1: BOARD MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meeting Schedule: The Board of County Commissioners shall hold
regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners in commission chambers at the
Daggett County Courthouse, located in the County seat of the Town of Manila,
Utah. The regularly scheduled meetings of the Board of County Commissioners
shall be held on the time and day of the week established each year by
Resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   B.   In the absence of a Resolution, the regular meeting schedule for the
Board of County Commissioners will be every Tuesday (excepting legal holidays)
beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. for the regular session. Should a legal
holiday fall on the Monday prior to meetings, said commission meetings will be
held on Wednesday.
   C.   Meeting Cancellation: Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting the
County Commission from canceling the regular meeting from time to time as the
commission deems prudent. Should a regular meeting be canceled, notice shall be
posted at least twenty four (24) hours in advance at the courthouse in Manila,
Utah, and on the Utah public notice website.
   D.   Special Meetings:
      1.   If the business of the County requires a special meeting of the
legislative body, such meeting may be ordered by a majority of the legislative
body or by the Chair.
      2.   Each order calling a special meeting shall:
         a.   Be signed by the members or Chair calling the meeting;
         b.   Be entered in the minutes of the legislative body; and
         c.   Specify the business to be transacted at the meeting.
      3.   No business other than that specified in the order may be transacted
at a special meeting unless all members of the County legislative body arc
present and give their consent.
      4.   Except as otherwise provided by County ordinance, the County Clerk
shall give five (5) days' notice of each special meeting to each member of the
County legislative body that does not join in the order calling the meeting.
   E.   Electronic Meetings:
      1.   Electronic Meetings: The Board of County Commissioners may convene
electronic meetings when necessary or upon request of any member of the board.
      2.   If an electronic meeting becomes necessary or is requested by a
member of the board, specific public notice of an electronic meeting shall be
posted by written notice of the electronic meeting at the anchor location and
as otherwise provided by law. Notice of the electronic meeting shall also be
provided to each member of the Board of County Commissioners at least twenty
four (24) hours before the meeting so that they may participate in and be
counted as present for all purposes, including the determination that a quorum
is present. The notice to members of the board shall also indicate the process
to be used to connect to the electronic meeting, including telephone numbers,
access codes, internet addresses, etc.
      3.   Before an electronic meeting may be called to order, all members of
the Board of County Commissioners shall be given an opportunity to participate
in the meeting and no electronic meeting shall be convened unless a quorum of
the Board of County Commissioners is present for the meeting.
      4.   Each electronic meeting shall be convened by the chairman of the
Board of County Commissioners by announcing the parties present at the meeting
and by making available to members of the public a means by which the members
of the public may hear the comments of board members and participate if
appropriate.
      5.   The commission chambers at the Daggett County Courthouse shall serve
as an anchor location for all electronic meetings and space and facilities
shall be made available so that interested persons and the public may attend
and monitor the open portions of the meeting. The Board of County Commissioners
may establish additional anchor locations for the electronic meeting if
necessary. If additional anchor locations are established, the notice of the
electronic meeting shall include all anchor locations and the means by which o
the public may participate if appropriate.
      6.   In all other respects, electronic meetings shall be conducted in
accordance with the Utah State Code, shall be recorded, and minutes shall be
kept as required by law.  (Ord. 14-31, 12-16-2014; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 20-02,
1-28-2020)
1-5-2: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Order Of Business: The order of business at each regular meeting, which
shall not in any case be departed from, except by consent of a majority of the
members present, voting thereon, shall be as follows:
      1.   First: Reading of the minutes of the last regular meeting and of all
intervening meetings, corrections, amendments and approval of same.
      2.   Second: Unfinished business.
      3.   Third: Reports of County officers.
      4.   Fourth: Presentation of petitions and communications by those
wishing to meet with the Board.
      5.   Fifth: Miscellaneous business.
   B.   Conduct: The Chairperson shall preserve order, confine members in
debate to the question, and shall decide who shall be first heard, when two (2)
or more members arise at the same time. Every question submitted to the Board
for consideration shall be heard in the most concise manner and long drawn out
communication unnecessary in the deciding of any question shall at once be
abated by the Chairperson without debate, unless there is an appeal made, in
which case the Board shall decide without debate. When a question is before the
Board, no motion shall be received, except as herein specified, which motions
shall have precedence in the order stated:
      1.   First: To adjourn.
      2.   Second: The previous question.
      3.   Third: To lay on the table.
      4.   Fourth: To amend. (Ord., 3-5-1935)
ARTICLE A.  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Creation
1-5A-2: Name
1-5A-3: Geographic Boundaries
1-5A-4: Powers
1-5A-5: Membership; Composition
1-5A-1: CREATION:
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 17C-1-201(1) of the
Act, the commission creates a Community Development and Renewal Agency (the
"agency"), contingent upon the issuance by the Utah Lieutenant Governor of a
certificate of creation under Utah Code Annotated section 67-1a-6.5. (Ord. 10-
04, 1-5-2010)
1-5A-2: NAME:
The name of the agency is the Daggett County Redevelopment Agency. (Ord. 10-04,
1-5-2010)
1-5A-3: GEOGRAPHIC BOUNDARIES:
The geographic boundaries of the agency are and will be coterminous with the
geographic boundaries of the unincorporated area of the County. (Ord. 10-04, 1-
5-2010)
1-5A-4: POWERS:
Upon creation, the agency will be vested with all the powers set forth in the
Act and as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 10-04, 1-5-2010)
1-5A-5: MEMBERSHIP; COMPOSITION:
The Governing Body of the agency will be a board consisting of the members of
the commission as may serve from time to time on the commission. Any change in
the composition of the commission will automatically and without any further
action required constitute a similar change in the composition of the agency
board. (Ord. 10-04, 1-5-2010)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Consolidation Of Offices Of Clerk, Auditor, Recorder And Treasurer
1-6-2: County Clerk-Treasurer
1-6-3: Salaries Of Elected And Statutory Officers
1-6-1: CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES OF CLERK, AUDITOR, RECORDER AND TREASURER:
   A.   The offices of Auditor-Recorder are separated from the offices of
Clerk-Treasurer. The offices of Auditor-Recorder shall remain and be
consolidated.
   B.   The offices of Clerk-Treasurer shall be and remain consolidated. (Ord.
94-2, 2-16-1994)
   C.   The Auditor-Recorder shall perform all duties established by law to be
performed by the County Auditor and the County Recorder and, in particular, the
Auditor-Recorder shall perform the duties set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 17-9a-101 et seq., as amended, and the duties established by Utah Code
Annotated section 17-21-1 et seq., as amended, and such other duties of office
as may be established by future ordinance or statute to be performed by the
Auditor and/or the Recorder. (Ord. 94-2, 2-16-1994; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   The Auditor-Recorder shall have and meet the qualifications and
requirements established by State law for both the Auditor and the Recorder
offices.
   E.   The Office of Clerk-Treasurer shall perform all of the duties
established by law for both the Office of Clerk and Office of Treasurer,
including the duties established in Utah Code Annotated section 17-20-1 et
seq., as amended, and the duties set forth by Utah Code Annotated section 17-
24-1 et seq., as amended.
   F.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform any and all duties now or hereinafter
established by statute or ordinance for either the Office of Clerk or the
Office of Treasurer.
   G.   The separation of offices and establishment of offices of Auditor-
Recorder and Clerk-Treasurer shall take effect January 1, 1995. (Ord. 94-2, 2-
16-1994)
1-6-2: COUNTY CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   Maintain Ordinance Book: The Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners
must keep an ordinance book, the title of which shall be "Ordinances of the
County of Daggett". All ordinances passed by the Board must be recorded in the
ordinance book at length, with the number and title of each ordinance. The
ordinance book shall be open to public inspection during all usual business
hours.
   B.   Record Of Franchises: There shall be kept a record by the Clerk of the
Board of all franchises granted by the Board, for what purpose, the length of
time, and to whom granted, the amount of bond and the license tax required or
other consideration to be paid.
   C.   Seal Adopted: A seal, the impression of which shall be as follows:
"State of Utah County Clerk County of Daggett" shall be and is hereby adopted
and declared to be the Seal of the County Clerk. An impression of the seal must
be filed in the Office of the County Clerk. (Ord., 3-5-1935)
1-6-3: SALARIES OF ELECTED AND STATUTORY OFFICERS:
Effective January 1, 2017, the annual salaries of the elected and statutory
officers of the County are established as follows:
 
Assessor            $28,527.00
Attorney            Contract
Auditor-Recorder    44,711.00
Clerk-Treasurer     44,711.00
Commissioners       24,000.00
Justice Court Judge 14,264.00
Sheriff             52,160.00
 
(Ord. 16-15, 12-6-2016)
CHAPTER 7
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Government Records Access And Management Act Adopted By Reference
1-7-1: GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah Government Records Access and Management Act, Utah Code
Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the
County. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered Class B violations
of this section and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to
penalty provisions as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose
1-8-2: Definition
1-8-3: Guidelines
1-8-4: Analysis
1-8-5: Review Or Appeal Of Action
1-8-6: Guidelines Advisory
1-8-7: Rights Of Property Owner Not Affected
1-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines for the County to
assist the County in identifying actions that involve physical taking or
exaction of private real property that may raise constitutional taking issues.
This chapter does not apply when the County formally exercises its power of
eminent domain. (Ord. 03-05, 3-17-2003)
1-8-2: DEFINITION:
As used herein, "constitutional taking issues" means actions involving the
physical taking or exaction of private real property by the County that might
require compensation to a private real property owner under:
   A.   The Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of United States;
(Ord. 03-05, 3-17-2003)
   B.   Article I, section 22 of the Utah Constitution; or (Ord. 03-05, 3-17-
2003; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory taking of
private real property by a governmental entity. (Ord. 03-05, 3-17-2003)
1-8-3: GUIDELINES:
   A.   Consideration: The following guidelines shall be considered by the
County when taking any action that might result in taking of private real
property.
   B.   Identification: The County should review the following to determine and
identify whether a proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking
issues:
      1.   Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of private
property?
      2.   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or
grant an easement to the County?
      3.   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically
viable uses of the property?
      4.   Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner's
economic interests?
      5.   Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership? (Ord. 03-
05, 3-17-2003)
1-8-4: ANALYSIS:
   A.   Review: If the County determines that a governmental action involves
constitutional taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the
County to analyze the possible taking and determine the action to be taken.
   B.   Considerations: In reviewing the proposed action, the following factors
may be considered:
      1.   The effect the potential taking would have on the use or value of
the private property;
      2.   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional
taking;
      3.   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the
County's lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
      4.   The cost to the County for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
      5.   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking;
      6.   If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development. (Ord. 03-05, 3-17-2003)
1-8-5: REVIEW OR APPEAL OF ACTION:
   A.   Designation Of County Clerk: Any owner of private real property or a
real property right who claims there has been an unconstitutional taking of
their property, without just compensation, shall petition for a review of a
final decision of any County officer, employee, board or commission. The
commission designates the County Clerk to hear and consider such petitions.
(Ord. 03-05, 3-17-2003; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Review Procedures: The following procedures for review of a final
decision shall be followed:
      1.   Final Decision: The person petitioning for review shall obtain a
final decision before requesting review;
      2.   Petition For Review: Within thirty (30) days from the date of the
final decision, the person requesting the review shall file, in the Office of
the County Clerk, a written petition for review of that decision. A copy shall
also be filed with the County Attorney.
      3.   Hearing Date: The County Clerk shall set a time to review the
decision that gave rise to the petition as soon as reasonably practical. The
County Clerk shall hear and consider the evidence related to and submitted by
the petitioner, the County or other interested parties. In the discretion of
the County Clerk, the hearing may be oral or based upon written submittals.
      4.   Initial Filing Information: As part of the petition for review, the
petitioner shall submit, at least seven (7) days prior to the date of the
review, the following:
         a.   The name of the petitioner requesting review;
         b.   The name and business address of the current owner of the
property; the form of ownership, i.e., whether sole proprietorship, for profit
or not for profit corporation, partnership, joint venture or other; and if
owned by other than a real person, name and address of all partners or
shareholders owning ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding shares;
         c.   A detailed description of the factual and legal grounds for the
claim that there has been an unconstitutional taking, without just
compensation;
         d.   A legal description of the property allegedly taken and a
detailed description of the nature of the property; and
         e.   A description of the protectable property interest claimed to be
affected.
      5.   Supplemental Information: If the County Clerk determines that there
may be a taking, and additional information is needed, the County Clerk may
further require the following to be submitted:
         a.   The evidence and documentation as to the value of the property
interest claimed taken, including the date and cost at the date the property
was acquired. This material should include any evidence of the value of that
same property before and after the alleged unconstitutional taking; the name of
the party from whom purchased, including the relationship, if any, between the
person requesting a review; and the party from whom the property was acquired;
         b.   The terms, including sale price, of any previous purchase or sale
of a full or partial interest in the property during the three (3) years prior
to the date of application;
         c.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose,
including financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the
three (3) years;
         d.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for
the previous three (3) years;
         e.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans
secured by the property, including the name of the mortgage holder or lender,
current interest rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other
significant provisions, including, but not limited to, the right of purchasers
to assume the loan;
         f.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
         g.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
         h.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three (3) years;
         i.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens and encumbrances affecting the property; and
         j.   The County Clerk may request additional information reasonably
necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion concerning the nature of
and the value of the alleged unconstitutional taking.
   C.   Review Standards: The County Clerk shall review the facts and
information presented by the petitioner and determine if the action by the
County constitutes an unconstitutional taking. In doing so, the County
Attorney's Office shall serve as a legal counsel and shall be consulted. The
County Clerk shall review the facts in light of the applicable State and
Federal constitutional law.
   D.   Time For Final Decision: If the County Clerk fails to hear and decide
the petition within fourteen (14) days after the filing of the petition, the
administrative decision of the County officer, employee, board or commission
shall be deemed approved; provided, however, the County Clerk may extend the
time to reach a decision, not exceeding an additional one hundred twenty (120)
days following the receipt of the information required pursuant to this
chapter, if prior to the expiration of the fourteen (14) day period, the County
Clerk notifies the petitioner, in writing, of such extension.
   E.   Results Of Review: After completing the review, the County Clerk shall
make a determination regarding the petition and, if determined to be necessary
and appropriate, make a recommendation to the appropriate office, employee,
board or commission. (Ord. 03-05, 3-17-2003)
1-8-6: GUIDELINES ADVISORY:
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of the County's liability for an unconstitutional taking of a vested
property interest. The decision rendered pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter is not admissible in court for any purpose other than to demonstrate
that the review has been completed, and in no event shall any recommended
compensation be admissible into evidence. (Ord. 03-05, 3-17-2003)
1-8-7: RIGHTS OF PROPERTY OWNER NOT AFFECTED:
The private property owner need not file the appeal authorized by this chapter
before bringing an action in any court to adjudicate claims that are eligible
for appeal. A property owner's failure to appeal the action of a political
subdivision does not constitute, and may not be interpreted as constituting, a
failure to exhaust available administrative remedies or as a bar to bringing
legal action. (Ord. 03-05, 3-17-2003)
CHAPTER 9
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
1-9-1: Board Created And Composition
1-9-2: Minimum Size For Agriculture Protection Areas
1-9-3: Fees For Accepting And Processing Proposals
1-9-4: Filing Procedure
1-9-1: BOARD CREATED AND COMPOSITION:
   A.   Created: An Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board is hereby
established for the County pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-201,
to perform the duties set out in said section 17-41-201, or any later amendment
or enactment of that section.
   B.   Appointment Of Board Members: The Board of County Commissioners shall
appoint five (5) members to the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board
established under subsection A of this section. The board members shall be
appointed by resolution from among the members of the Board of Supervisors of
the Soil Conservation District located in Daggett County, Utah; namely, the
Daggett County Soil Conservation District.
   C.   Term In Office; Removal Of Members: Each member appointed to the
Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board shall serve on said board until
expiration of that member's respective term on the Soil Conservation District
Board of Supervisors. The Board of County Commissioners may remove and replace
any Advisory Board member for cause or for failure to perform the required
duties.
   D.   Officers: The members of the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board
shall select a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary. The Chairperson and
Vice Chairperson shall be selected from among the members of the Agriculture
Protection Area Advisory Board. The Secretary may be either a member of the
Advisory Board or a County employee. The selection of a County employee to
serve as Secretary must be approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
   E.   Quorum And Rules Of Operation: Any three (3) members of the Agriculture
Protection Area Advisory Board shall constitute a quorum of that board. All
actions of the board, except to adjourn a meeting at which there is not a
quorum present, must be made in a meeting at which a quorum is present. Any
actions of the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board must be approved by
at least three (3) members of that board. All meetings shall be conducted in
accordance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act. The Agriculture
Protection Area Advisory Board may adopt such additional rules of operation as
it deems necessary to govern its affairs. (Ord. 13-09, 5-7-2013)
1-9-2: MINIMUM SIZE FOR AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-301(4), or any contiguous later
amendment or enactment of that section, at least twenty (20) contiguous acres
must be included in each agriculture protection area established within the
County. (Ord. 13-09, 5-7-2013)
1-9-3: FEES FOR ACCEPTING AND PROCESSING PROPOSALS:
Any person or persons filing a proposal to create an agriculture protection
area pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 41, shall pay a fee at
the time of filing. The amount of the fee shall be established by resolution of
the Board of County Commissioners. Until adoption of a resolution setting fees,
the fee for accepting and processing a proposal to create an agriculture
protection area shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). In addition, any
person or persons filing a proposal for creation of an agriculture protection
area shall reimburse the County for all publication costs incurred by the
County in publishing the notices required under Utah Code Annotated title 17,
chapter 41, or any subsequent amendment or enactment of that statute. (Ord. 13-
09, 5-7-2013)
1-9-4: FILING PROCEDURE:
All proposals to create agriculture protection area within the County shall be
filed in the Office of the County Clerk by March 31 of each year. The proposals
will be retained and presented to the County Commission on a once a year
schedule only. All proposals must be accompanied by the filing fee established
by the Board of Commissioners. Upon receipt by the County Clerk, proposals will
be provided to the County Recorder for recording. Upon approval by the County
Commission, the effective date for the protective area will be retroactive to
the filing date with the County Clerk's Office. (Ord. 13-09, 5-7-2013)
CHAPTER 10
CAMPAIGN FINANCE
SECTION:
1-10-1: Statute Applicability
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Requirements And Restrictions
1-10-4: Penalty
1-10-1: STATUTE APPLICABILITY:
This chapter is made pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-16-6.5 (the
"Code"). Any requirement or restriction not included in this chapter but
discussed in the Code shall be binding upon candidates. (Ord. 16-09, 6-14-2016)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
All other terms used in this chapter which are not expressly listed in this
section are to be interpreted as defined by Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
The following terms shall have the following definitions for the purposes of
this chapter:
CANDIDATE: Any individual that is a candidate for either County office or local
school board office.
CONTRIBUTION: A. A gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance or deposit of
money, or anything of value, including nonmonetary contributions, such as in
kind contributions and contributions of tangible things, except a loan of money
by a financial institution made in accordance with the applicable financial
institution laws and regulations and in the ordinary course of business, made
for political purposes;
   B.   A contract, promise or agreement, express or implied, whether or not
legally enforceable, to make a contribution described in subsection A of this
definition;
   C.   A transfer of funds between a political committee and a candidate's
personal campaign committee;
   D.   Compensation paid by a person, other than the candidate's personal
campaign committee, for personal services of another person rendered without
charge to the candidate or such candidate's personal campaign committee;
   E.   A coordinated expenditure; but
   F.   "Contribution" shall not include personal services provided without
compensation by individuals volunteering their time on behalf of a candidate or
such candidate's personal campaign committee.
EXPENDITURE: A. A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance,
deposit or gift of money, or anything of value, made for political purposes;
   B.   A contract, promise or agreement, express or implied, whether or not
legally enforceable, to make an expenditure described in subsection A of this
definition; or
   C.   A transfer of funds by a political committee to another political
committee or to a candidate's personal campaign committee. (Ord. 16-09, 6-14-
2016)
1-10-3: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Reporting Required: Each candidate shall report the candidate's
itemized and total campaign contributions and expenditures at least once within
the two (2) weeks before the election and at least once within two (2) months
after the election.
   B.   Contents Of Report: Financial reports provided by candidates shall
include the name, if known, and the amount of each contribution, as well as the
name and amount of the recipient of each expenditure.
   C.   Separate Account Required: Candidates shall deposit contributions in a
separate campaign account in a financial institution.
   D.   Commingling Prohibited: Candidates may not deposit or mingle any
contributions received into a personal or business account.
   E.   Contributions Exceeding Fifty Dollars From Unknown Donors: Candidates
who receive a contribution that is cash or a negotiable instrument which
exceeds fifty dollars ($50.00) and is from a donor whose name is unknown,
shall, within thirty (30) days after receiving the contribution, disburse the
amount of the contribution to:
      1.   The Treasurer of the State or a political subdivision for deposit
into the State or political subdivision's general fund; or
      2.   An organization that is exempt from Federal income taxation under
Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3).
   F.   Deposits, Expenditures Included: Candidates shall include on a
financial report required under this chapter any contribution deposited in or
an expenditure made from an account:
      1.   Since the last financial report was filed or from an account; or
      2.   That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs
the account.
   G.   Elimination At Primary Election: Candidates who are eliminated at a
primary election, should there be one, shall file a signed campaign financial
statement containing the information required under this chapter not later than
thirty (30) days after the primary election.
   H.   Failure To File; Notice: The County Clerk may impose a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) on any candidate who fails to file an interim report
due before the election as required under this chapter. In addition, the County
Clerk may send an electronic notice to any candidate who fails to file an
interim report. Such electronic notice shall state that:
      1.   The candidate failed to timely file the report;
      2.   The candidate will be disqualified from the election if he or she
fails to file the report within twenty four (24) hours after the deadline for
filing the report has passed; and
      3.   A political party will not be permitted to replace the candidate who
is disqualified.
   I.   Disqualification: Any candidate who fails to file an interim report
within twenty four (24) hours after the established deadline for filing
required under this chapter shall be disqualified by the County Clerk. The
County Clerk shall inform the appropriate election officials of the
disqualification.
   J.   Replacement Of Candidate Prohibited: The political party of a candidate
who is disqualified under subsection I of this section may not replace the
candidate.
   K.   Removal From Ballot: An election official shall, if practicable, remove
the name of any disqualified candidate by blacking out the candidate's name
before the ballots are delivered to voters, or shall inform voters by any
practicable method that the candidate has been disqualified and that votes cast
for the candidate will not be counted. The election official may not count
votes for any disqualified candidate.
   L.   Timely Financial Report: A financial report is considered timely if:
      1.   The report is received in the County Clerk's Office no later than
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, Mountain Standard Time, at the end of the day
on which the report is due;
      2.   The report is received in the County Clerk's Office with a United
States Postal Service postmark three (3) days or more before the date that the
report was due; or
      3.   The candidate has proof that the report was mailed, with appropriate
postage and addressing, three (3) days before the report was due.
   M.   Electronic Reporting: The County Clerk shall permit a candidate to file
the report via e-mail or another electronic means designated by the County
Clerk if the Clerk's Office is not open until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
at the end of the day on which the report is due.
   N.   Duties Of County Clerk: The County Clerk shall:
      1.   Make each campaign finance report filed by a candidate available for
public inspection by:
         a.   Posting an electronic copy or the contents of the statement on
the County website no later than seven (7) business days after the statement is
filed; and
         b.   Verifying that the address of the County website has been
provided to the Lieutenant Governor in order to meet the requirements of Utah
Code Annotated section 20A-11-103(5); or
      2.   Submitting a copy of the statement to the Lieutenant Governor for
posting on the website established by the Lieutenant Governor under Utah Code
Annotated section 20A-11-103 no later than two (2) business days after the
statement is filed. (Ord. 16-09, 6-14-2016)
1-10-4: PENALTY:
Any person who fails to comply with this chapter is guilty of an infraction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 16-09, 6-14-2016; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 2
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Recovery Of Expenses For Hazardous Materials Emergency
2-1-1: RECOVERY OF EXPENSES FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
EXPENSES: Actual labor costs of government and volunteer personnel, including
workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits, administrative overhead, cost
of equipment, cost of equipment operations, cost of materials, and cost of any
contract labor and materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected release of any substance
that because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics presents a direct and immediate threat to public safety or the
environment, and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat.
   B.   Recovery Of Expenses:
      1.   Authorized: Upon certification of cost by the County Sheriff to the
County Commission, the County Commission may authorize the County Clerk to
recover from those persons whose operations of actions caused the hazardous
materials emergency expenses incurred by the County that are directly
associated with a response to a hazardous materials emergency.
      2.   Admission Of Liability Or Negligence: The payment of expenses under
this subsection does not constitute an admission of liability or negligence in
any legal action for damages.
      3.   Assistance Requested: The County Clerk may request assistance from
the County Attorney's Office to assist in recovering expenses. Expenses may
include reasonable attorney fees and litigation cost. (Ord. 95-12, 12-20-1996)
CHAPTER 2
TAXES
ARTICLE A.  SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Title
2-2A-2: Purpose
2-2A-3: Effective Date
2-2A-4: Sales And Use Tax
2-2A-5: Penalty
2-2A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF
DAGGETT. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
2-2A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The 48th Session of the Utah legislature has authorized the counties
and municipalities of the State of Utah to enact sales and use tax ordinances
imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales and use tax of
the Municipality to the requirements of the Sales and Use Tax Act, Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
2-2A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
2-2A-4: SALES AND USE TAX:
   A.   Sales Tax: From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied
and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible
personal property, services and meals made within the Municipality at the rate
of one percent (1%).
   B.   Excise Tax: An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in this Municipality of tangible personal property from any
retailer on or after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the sales price of the property.
   C.   Determine Place Of Business: For the purpose of this article, all
retail sales shall be presumed to have been consummated at the place of
business delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of state destination
or to a common carrier for delivery to an out of state destination. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules
and regulations prescribed by and adopted by the State Tax Commission. Public
utilities, as defined by Utah Code Annotated title 54, shall not be obligated
to determine the place or places within any county or municipality where public
utilities services are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue
arising from such service allocable to the County shall be as determined by the
State Tax Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
   D.   Statute Adopted: Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of
the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set
forth herein. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Substitution Of Terms In Statute: Wherever, and to the extent that in
Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, the State of Utah is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Municipality shall be
substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require
substitution of the name of the Municipality for the word "State" when that
word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or of the
Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the Municipality be
substituted for that of the State in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the Municipality or
any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
   F.   Additional License Not Required: If an annual license has been issued
to a retailer under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional
license shall not be required by reason of this section.
   G.   Exclusions: There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or
charged by which the tax is measured:
      1.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of Utah upon
a retailer or consumer;
      2.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and
any county in the State of Utah, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted
by that county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act.
(Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
2-2A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE B.  OPTIONAL COUNTY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-2B-1: Title
2-2B-2: Statutory Authority
2-2B-3: Purpose
2-2B-4: Imposition; Amount
2-2B-5: Incorporation Of State Law
2-2B-6: Administration, Collection, Distribution
2-2B-7: Exemptions
2-2B-8: Effective Date
2-2B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the OPTIONAL COUNTY SALES AND USE TAX. (Ord. 97-
7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-1997)
2-2B-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-1101 et seq. (Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
2-2B-3: PURPOSE:
This article is enacted to provide the County with a source of revenue to allow
the County to more effectively carry out its role as a political and legal
subdivision of the State of Utah. The Board of County Commissioners hereby
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish
this stated purpose. (Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-1997)
2-2B-4: IMPOSITION; AMOUNT:
In addition to all other taxes imposed, the County does hereby impose and levy
for collection a Sales and Use Tax of one-fourth of one percent (1/4%) upon the
sales and uses described in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-103(1), subject
to the exemptions provided for in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-104. This
tax is imposed upon all sales and uses made in the County, including sales and
uses made within the corporate limits of the cities and towns of the County.
Provisions of this article shall be subject to the provisions of the Sales and
Use Tax laws of Utah to which reference is hereinafter made in this article and
which are hereby enacted and made a part of this article as though fully set
forth herein. (Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-1997)
2-2B-5: INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
   A.   Adopted: Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with provisions of the County Optional Sales and Use Tax Act, all
the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended,
in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to the
tax imposed by this article, are adopted and made a part of this article as
though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-1997; amd. 2017
Code)
   B.   Substitution Of Terms In Statute: Wherever and to the extent that in
Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, the State of Utah is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this County shall be substituted
therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of
the name of the County for the word "State" when that word is used as part of
the title of the State Tax Commission, or the Constitution of the State of
Utah, nor shall the name of the County be substituted for that of the State in
any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against the County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against
the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this article. (Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-
1997)
2-2B-6: ADMINISTRATION, COLLECTION, DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   Taxes imposed pursuant to this article shall be levied at the same time
and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-201 et seq., as amended, except that the revenue derived from the tax is
not subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant
to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-205(2), as amended.
Revenues collected pursuant to this article shall be distributed in accordance
with Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-1102(3) and the rules adopted by the
State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-1102(3)(d).
All revenues so collected shall be revenues of either the County or of any
other county entitled to distribution of the same pursuant to the statute.
(Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Any records, tax returns or other information of any person,
corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes
imposed by this article which relate to the calculation, collection or
remittance to the State Tax Commission of such taxes shall be subject to
review, inspection and auditing by the County. (Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-
25-1997)
   C.   The fee charged the County by the State Tax Commission under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-206, as amended, shall be based on the distribution
amount resulting after all the applicable distribution calculations under Utah
Code Annotated section 59-12-1102(3) have been made. (Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997,
eff. 7-25-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
2-2B-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The sale, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
is exempt from sales or use taxation pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-104 is exempt from the application of the Optional County Sales and Use
Tax. (Ord. 97-7, 7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-1997)
2-2B-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The tax imposed by this article shall take effect January 1, 1998. (Ord. 97-7,
7-25-1997, eff. 7-25-1997)
ARTICLE C.  RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
SECTION:
2-2C-1: Procedure
2-2C-2: Criteria
2-2C-3: Grandfather Provision
2-2C-4: Conflict
2-2C-5: Statutes Incorporated
2-2C-1: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Form Submittal: No later than sixty (60) days after either a change in
ownership or a change in use of the residence, all owners of residential
property, as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 59-2-102, as amended, shall
sign and submit a form supplied by the County, to the Board of Equalization in
care of the County Assessor, stating the current use of the property as primary
or secondary. The application shall include the following information:
      1.   The owner of record of the property;
      2.   Property parcel number;
      3.   Location of the property (address);
      4.   Name of the applicant;
      5.   Basis of the applicant's knowledge of the use of the property;
      6.   Description of the use of the property;
      7.   Evidence of domicile of the inhabitants of the property; and
      8.   Signature of all owners of the property and a certification that the
property is residential property.
   B.   Use; Minimum Term: In order to be considered for a primary residential
exemption for the current tax year, the property must be used in the current
calendar year as a primary residence for at least one hundred eighty three
(183) consecutive days and the application must be submitted by August 31.
(Ord. 15-12, 6-2-2015)
   C.   Administrative Fee: Applicants seeking the exemption for the current
tax year and filed after May 1 must pay an administrative fee as established by
the Board of County Commissioners to the Office of the County Assessor. (Ord.
15-12, 6-2-2015; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Application May Be Required: Except for those properties receiving a
residential exemption which are required to file an application each year, the
County Board of Equalization may require an owner of the residential property
to file the application described in subsection A of this section only if:
      1.   That residential property was ineligible for the primary residence
tax exemption during the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year
for which the owner is seeking to claim the exemption; or
      2.   The ownership interest in that residential property changes; or
      3.   The County Board of Equalization or the County Assessor determines
that there is reason to believe that the property no longer qualifies for the
residential exemption in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 59-2-103.
   E.   Request, Collect Information: The County Board of Equalization or the
County Assessor may request or collect information sufficient to verify the
primary residence status of the property to determine if the property is
entitled to the residential exemption, pursuant to the criteria set forth in
the rules promulgated by the State Tax Commission.
   F.   Burden Of Proof: If an applicant requests a property be designated as a
primary residence, the residential exemption shall not be granted without clear
and convincing evidence that the property serves as the primary residence. The
burden of proof shall remain at all times with the applicant.
   G.   Determination: After review of the applicant's application, the County
Assessor shall make a preliminary determination of whether the requirements for
a residential residence exemption, outlined in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 2, have been met, and whether the factors or objective evidence
determinative of domicile, which are defined and outlined in section
2-2C-2 of this article, are sufficient to approve the applicant's request. The
County Assessor shall then make a recommendation to the Board of Equalization
for approval or denial of the applicant's request. The Board of Equalization
shall allow an owner a residential exemption for the residential property
described in the application, upon making a determination that the requirements
outlined in Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 2, have been met, and that
the factors or objective evidence supplied by the applicant are sufficient to
make a determination of domicile. (Ord. 15-12, 6-2-2015)
2-2C-2: CRITERIA:
   A.   Definitions:
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION: The Daggett County Board of Equalization. If no formal
Daggett County Board of Equalization exists, the Daggett County Commission
shall be considered the acting Board of Equalization.
DOMICILE: The place where an individual has a true, fixed, permanent home and
principal establishment, and to which place the person has (whenever the person
is absent) the intention of returning. It is the place in which a person has
voluntarily fixed the habitation of the person and the person's family, not for
a mere special or temporary purpose, but with the present intention of making a
permanent home.
      1.   After domicile has been established, two (2) things are necessary to
create a new domicile: first, an abandonment of the old domicile; and second,
the intention and establishment of a new domicile.
      2.   The mere intention to abandon a domicile once established is not of
itself sufficient to create a new domicile; for before a person can be said to
have changed a person's domicile, a new domicile must be shown.
      3.   The Assessor and the Board of Equalization may refer to the
administrative rules of the State Tax Commission for guidance in reviewing the
factors and evidence determinative of domicile.
PRIMARY RESIDENCE: The location where domicile has been established.
   B.   Residential Exemption: To qualify for the residential exemption, a
property need not be owner occupied. Apartments and other rental housing used
as a primary residence of the occupants quality for the residential exemption
in accordance with section
2-2C-1 of this article. A primary residence does not include property used for
transient residential use, or condominiums used in rental pools. Only the
primary residence, which is occupied more than six (6) months out of the year,
qualifies for the residential exemption. The residential exemption is limited
to up to one (1) acre of land per residential dwelling unit on a single
property description.
   C.   Partial Exemption For Mixed Commercial And Residential: A partial
exemption may be applied against the property taxes of mixed commercial and
residential property but it is presumed that the entire property is commercial.
This presumption may be rebutted by the filing of the application referred to
in subsection 2-2C-1A of this article every year, which includes evidence of
domicile of each qualifying resident. The County Assessor may require
additional information as necessary to make a determination of the percentage
of the property qualifying for the residential exemption. (Ord. 15-12, 6-2-
2015)
2-2C-3: GRANDFATHER PROVISION:
As of the effective date hereof, owner occupied residential property,
apartments and other rental property being used as the primary residence of the
occupants, where the property is currently listed by the County Assessor as
having a residential exemption, shall not be required to file an application to
continue its status. Owner occupied residential property, apartments and other
rental property being used as the primary residence of the occupants, where the
property is subsequently listed by the County Assessor as having a residential
exemption and was constructed after the effective date hereof, shall be
required to file the application required by section
2-2C-1 of this article. However, should the use change from primary residence,
the property shall no longer be considered exempt and an application under the
provisions of this article shall be required. (Ord. 15-12, 6-2-2015)
2-2C-4: CONFLICT:
In the event of any conflict between this article and State or Federal law, the
provisions of the latter shall be controlling. (Ord. 15-12, 6-2-2015)
2-2C-5: STATUTES INCORPORATED:
This article shall incorporate the provisions of the administrative rules
promulgated by the State Tax Commission, and the criteria for determining
primary residence set forth in Utah Code Annotated sections 59-2-102 and 59-2-
103, as amended, and property tax standard 2.13, primary residential exemption.
(Ord. 15-12, 6-2-2015)
ARTICLE D.  TOURISM, RECREATION, CULTURAL AND CONVENTION FACILITIES TAX
SECTION:
2-2D-1: Title
2-2D-2: Statutory Authority
2-2D-3: Purpose
2-2D-4: Definitions
2-2D-5: Imposition, Amount Of Tax
2-2D-6: Use Of Revenues
2-2D-7: Collection
2-2D-8: Licensure
2-2D-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the TOURISM, RECREATION, CULTURAL AND CONVENTION
FACILITIES TAX OF THE COUNTY OF DAGGETT. (Ord. 09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
2-2D-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-601 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
2-2D-3: PURPOSE:
This article is enacted to provide the County with a source of revenue
specifically for the purposes of financing in whole or in part the development,
operation and maintenance of tourist, recreation, cultural and convention
facilities, and the Board of County Commissioners hereby directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish the stated
purpose. (Ord. 09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
2-2D-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CONVENTION FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated convention center, sports
arena, or other facility at which conventions, conferences, and other
gatherings are held and which the primary business or function is to host such
conventions, conferences, and other gatherings.
CULTURAL FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated museum, theater, art center,
music hall, or other cultural or arts facility.
RECREATION FACILITY OR TOURIST FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated park,
campground, marina, dock, golf course, water park, historic park, museum,
theater, monument, planetarium, bicycle trails, and other recreation or tourism
related facility.
RESTAURANT: A. Any coffee shop, cafeteria, restaurant, luncheonette, soda
fountain, or fast food service where food is prepared for immediate
consumption.
   B.   "Restaurant" does not include any retail establishment whose primary
business or function is the sale of fuel or food items for off premises, but
not immediate, consumption. (Ord. 09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
2-2D-5: IMPOSITION, AMOUNT OF TAX:
   A.   Levied: There is hereby levied a Tourism, Recreation, Cultural and
Convention Tax on all restaurants, as defined in section
2-2D-4 of this article, in the County at the rate of one percent (1%) of all
sales of prepared food and beverages that are sold by restaurants. (Ord. 09-11,
6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
   B.   Incorporation Of State Law:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and excepted insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Tourism, Recreation, Cultural and
Convention Facilities Tax Act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-101 et seq., as amended, and in force and effect on the effective
date hereof, insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by this article, are
hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth
herein. (Ord. 09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   Where, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
101 et seq., the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this
subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County
for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the title of the State
Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name
of the County be substituted for that of the State in any section when the
result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
County or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax
Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article. (Ord. 09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
2-2D-6: USE OF REVENUES:
The revenues received from the tourism, recreation, cultural and convention
taxes levied pursuant to section
2-2D-5 of this article shall be used solely for the purposes of financing, in
whole or in part, tourism promotion, and the development, operation and
maintenance of tourist, recreation, cultural and convention facilities, as
defined herein. The Board of County Commissioners may issue bonds under the
provisions of the Utah Municipal Bond Act to pay any costs incurred for the
purposes set forth above and may pledge the entire proceeds of the tax provided
for this article to the payment of principal, interest, premiums and necessary
reserves for any such bonds. (Ord. 09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
2-2D-7: COLLECTION:
Taxes imposed under this article shall be levied at the same time and collected
in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-201 et
seq., as amended, except that the revenue derived from the tax is not subject
to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant to the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-205(2), as amended. All
revenues so collected shall be the revenues of the County. Any records, tax
returns or other information of any person, corporation, company or other group
or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this article which relate to
the calculation, collection or remittance to the State Tax Commission of said
taxes shall be subject to review, inspection, and auditing by the County. (Ord.
09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
2-2D-8: LICENSURE:
All persons, companies, corporations or other similar persons, groups, or
organizations doing business as restaurants shall obtain from the State Tax
Commission, a Tourism, Recreation, Cultural or Convention Tax license. No such
additional license shall be required if the person, company, corporation, or
group or organization, has obtained a license pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-106, as amended. (Ord. 09-11, 6-2-2009, eff. 6-2-2009)
ARTICLE E.  OPTIONAL SALES AND USE TAX FOR TRANSPORTATION
SECTION:
2-2E-1: Title
2-2E-2: Statutory Authority
2-2E-3: Imposition; Amount
2-2E-4: Allocation
2-2E-5: Effective Date
2-2E-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the County Option Sales And Use Tax for
Transportation. (Ord. 19-19, 12-2-2019)
2-2E-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code § 59-12-103(1)
and Utah Code § 59-12-2201 et. seq. (Ord. 19-19, 12-2-2019)
2-2E-3: IMPOSITION; AMOUNT:
In addition to all other taxes imposed, the County does hereby impose and levy
for collection a Sales and Use Tax of 0.25% on the transactions described in
Utah Code § 59-12-103(1) within the county, including the cities and towns
within the county. (Ord. 19-19, 12-2-2019)
2-2E-4: ALLOCATION:
This sales and use tax shall be allocated in accordance with Utah Code § 59-12-
2219(6)(c).  (Ord. 19-19, 12-2-2019)
2-2E-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The tax imposed by this article shall take effect April 1, 2020. (Ord. 19-19,
12-2-2019)
ARTICLE F.  RURAL COUNTY HEALTH CARE FACILITIES TAX
SECTION:
2-2F-1: Tax Imposed
2-2F-1: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby levied a tax on all sales and uses described in
Subsection 59-12-103(1), Utah Code Annotated, as the same may be amended from
time to time, subject to the exceptions provided for in Section 59-12-104, Utah
Code Annotated, as amended from time to time, for a period of ten (10) years
from the effective date of this section.
   B.   Commencing upon the effective date of this section, the tax imposed by
this section shall be collected by the Utah State Tax Commission (the "Tax
Commission"). The Tax Commission shall transmit to the County monthly by
electronic funds transfer the revenues generated by the tax imposed by this
section.
   C.   The tax imposed by this section shall be used by the County to finance
equipping, furnishing and ongoing operating expenses of the Flaming Gorge
Health Care Center and emergency medical services, federally qualified health
centers, free-standing health care facilities, rural county healthcare
facilities, rural health clinics or a combination of the above as provided by
UCA Section 59-12-802.
   D.   The effective date for the tax shall be January 1, 2007. (Ord. 06-19,
10-23-2006)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Application For License
3-1-4: Filing Of Application; Fees
3-1-5: Referral To Commission
3-1-6: Investigation
3-1-7: Action Of Commission
3-1-8: Classifications, Fees Determined
3-1-9: Payment Of License Fees; License Period; Refunds
3-1-10: Beer Licenses Excluded
3-1-11: Certificate Of License
3-1-12: Transferability
3-1-13: Reapplication
3-1-14: Rules And Regulations
3-1-15: Inspections
3-1-16: Penalty
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the safety,
health and prosperity, improving the morals, peace, good order, comfort and
convenience of the County and the inhabitants thereof, protecting property
therein and regulating all and every kind of businesses and activities not
prohibited by law and defined in this chapter and raising revenue therefrom.
(Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on or operate any
business in the County without first making application for and obtaining a
license from the County for such business, and by paying in advance the license
fee required therefor as provided in this chapter. Each day that any person
does business without a license is a separate and additional violation. (Ord.
95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required: All applications for licenses shall be made in writing and
submitted to the County Clerk upon a prepared form which may be obtained from
the County Clerk. Any false statement on an application shall void the license
and is a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Contents Of Application: Each application shall show the following:
      1.   The name and address of the person desiring the license. If the
applicant is a copartnership, the names and addresses of the partnerships, and
if a corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors;
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business to be performed,
practiced or carried on;
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes;
      4.   The place where such business is to be carried on, giving the street
number, if such business is to be carried on in any building or enclosure or
stated location;
      5.   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued;
      6.   The actual cash value of the business sought to be licensed;
      7.   Such other facts and information as may be required by ordinance,
the Statutes of the State and the commission;
      8.   Provided, further, that a written application for a renewal of a
license may or may not be required at the option of the County Commission;
      9.   Verification by applicant that applicant and business are in full
compliance with all State, Federal and local laws and ordinances, and that all
taxes and fee payments are current. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-4: FILING OF APPLICATION; FEES:
Each application for a license under this chapter shall be filed by the
applicant with the County Clerk and shall be accompanied by the license fee
required to be paid for the issuance of the license desired. The fee may be in
the form of cash or check, made payable to the County Clerk. Applications
received by the County Clerk shall be numbered in the order of their receipt
and shall be filed in numerical sequence with the County Clerk. The license fee
to be paid by all businesses is hereby fixed at a minimum of ten dollars
($10.00) per year, or for any part of a calendar year, or such other amount as
the County Commissioners shall set by resolution. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-
15-1995)
3-1-5: REFERRAL TO COMMISSION:
After receipt of an application for a license, such application shall be
submitted to the commission at the next regular commission meeting; unless, in
the opinion of the County Commission, or as required hereby, the application
should be referred to the Sheriff, Tri-County Health Department, Fire
Department or other official or body for investigation. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995,
eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-6: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   May Be Required: Within ten (10) days after receipt by the commission
of such application for a license, the commission, in its discretion, may refer
the application to the Fire Department, Tri-County Health Department, Sheriff
or other official or body, for the purpose of investigation and inspection
concerning the general reputation or character of the person making the
application, or directly interested therein; the general reputation of those
who patronize the business; the nature or kind of applicant's business; whether
such place is or has been conducted in a lawful, quiet, orderly and helpful
manner; the conditions of health and safety of such premises, together with the
other fact or facts, which the commission should know in acting upon the
application.
   B.   Report Of Investigation: Upon being requested to do so by the
commission, the Sheriff, Tri-County Health Department, Fire Department or other
official or body shall conduct the investigation and inspection provided for in
County ordinances, and within five (5) days after receiving such request,
submit to the commission, a report on such investigation and inspection,
together with recommendations as to whether the license should be granted or
denied. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-7: ACTION OF COMMISSION:
   A.   Scope: After receipt of the report and recommendation of the Sheriff,
Tri-County Health Department, Fire Department or other official or body, the
commission shall act upon the application as it shall deem just and proper in
regard to granting or denying the same, or may order further information or
investigations concerning the same. The County Commission will not issue a
business license to any business that the commission is aware is in violation
of any State or County ordinance or is delinquent in any taxes owed to the
State or local government. The commission may require proof from the applicant
of compliance before the license is issued.
   B.   Approval Of Application: In the event the commission shall approve any
application for a license, such approval shall be endorsed on the application
and signed by the Chairperson of the commission and forthwith issue a license
certificate therefor.
   C.   Denial Of Application: In the event the commission shall deny any
application for license, the reason therefor shall be endorsed on the
application by the Chairperson of the commission and the County Clerk shall
return the fee deposited with the application to the applicant forthwith,
together with notice that the applicant may appear before the commission for
the purpose of presenting reasons for setting aside such denial. If applicant
makes such appearance and presents adequate justification, the commission may,
in its discretion, set aside the denial and approve the application. (Ord. 95-
2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-8: CLASSIFICATIONS, FEES DETERMINED:
Fees charged for business licenses and the classification of various classes of
businesses shall be pursuant to resolution adopted by the Board of County
Commissioners. Any change in classification or fee as applicable to a currently
licensed business shall not be enforced until the current license expires.
(Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-9: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; LICENSE PERIOD; REFUNDS:
   A.   Payment Of License Fees; License Period: All licenses provided for in
this chapter shall, except as hereinafter provided, be payable annually in
advance commencing January 1 of each year and, unless revoked as provided in
this chapter, shall be effective through the following December 31, unless
otherwise provided herein. A license for any business to be established may be
issued at any time during the year. In the event a business fails to renew a
license by January 31 of any year, a late fee as established by the Board of
County Commissioners shall be collected before issuance of a new license. (Ord.
95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Fees Not Refunded: No license fee, or any part thereof, shall be
refunded for any reason whatsoever, once the license has been granted or issued
by the County. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-10: BEER LICENSES EXCLUDED:
It is further provided that this chapter does not exceed to the license of
taverns or beer parlors, which are covered by other ordinances. (Ord. 95-2, 2-
1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-11: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: Every certificate of license shall bear upon its face the
following:
      1.   The name of the person to which such certificate has been issued;
      2.   The amount paid for such license;
      3.   The kind of license and the class of such license;
      4.   The terms of the license with the commencing date and the date of
its expiration;
      5.   The place or places where such business is to be carried on;
      6.   The signature of the County Clerk.
   B.   Posting Of Certificates:
      1.   Every certificate of license issued shall be posted by the licensee
in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the building, room or office of the
store or place in which such licensed business is carried on, so that the same
may be easily seen.
      2.   When such certificates of license have expired, the licensee shall
remove the same from the place in which it has been posted.
   C.   Certificate To Be Shown To Officials: It shall be the duty of each and
every person to whom a certificate of license has been issued to show the same
at a proper time when requested to do so by the County Commission, Sheriff or
their deputies or any law enforcement officer.
   D.   Misuse Of Certificates: It shall be unlawful to counterfeit a license
certificate or to deface or mutilate the same while it is required to be posted
in the licensed premises or upon any amusement device, contrivance, game or
machine or vehicle required by this chapter to be licensed, or to remove it or
attempt to remove it therefrom without destroying it, or use or permit the same
to be used at any place other than that designated therein, or for any licensee
to place or permit it to be placed or be in any other place of business or be
upon one (1) amusement device, contrivance, game, machine or vehicle after it
has been placed in or upon another, or to place it or permit it to be placed in
or upon any place of business, amusement device, game machine or vehicle
prohibited or declared to be unlawful by this chapter or any other ordinance or
law. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-12: TRANSFERABILITY:
No license granted or issued under any of the provisions of any ordinance of
the County shall be in any manner assignable or transferable or authorize any
person other than the person therein mentioned or named to do business, or
authorize any other business than is therein mentioned or named to be done or
transacted; provided, that any person to whom one (1) or more licenses have
been issued to transact or carry on some business at a definite location in the
County may, except as hereinafter provided, make application for the transfer
of any or all of his licenses for the sole purpose of transacting or carrying
on the same business as is therein mentioned at some other definite location in
the County by himself, by filing the application with the County Clerk after
receiving reports furnished by the County Commission, the Sheriff and the Tri-
County Health Department, may in their discretion, deny or grant the transfer
of any or all of the licenses strictly within the limitations set out in this
section. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-13: REAPPLICATION:
A new application for license shall be filled out and submitted on behalf of
existing businesses every third year. A new application shall be submitted any
time the ownership or management of a business has changed during the preceding
year or when the nature or size of the business has substantially changed
during the preceding year. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-14: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Rules and regulations covering health, safety, morals, peace, good order,
comfort and convenience of the general public with respect to any business
covered under this chapter shall be adopted by the commission and copies of
such rules and regulations shall be made available to and displayed by the
licensees affected thereby in a conspicuous place upon the licensed premises.
(Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-15: INSPECTIONS:
Nonconsensual, nonemergency searches of the nonpublic portions of licensed
businesses shall be pursuant to an appropriate search warrant. Searches of
premises covered by specific provisions of Utah Code or regulations adopted
thereunder shall be made as provided for in such Code or regulation. (Ord. 95-
2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995)
3-1-16: PENALTY:
All persons violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class
B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 95-2, 2-1-1995, eff. 2-15-1995; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BEER SALES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Alcoholic Beverage Control Act Adopted By Reference
3-2-2: Licenses, Fee Required
3-2-3: Compliance With State Law Required
3-2-4: Sanitary Premises
3-2-5: Display Of License
3-2-6: Transferability
3-2-7: Inspections
3-2-8: Refusal Or Revocation
3-2-9: Penalty
3-2-1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, Utah Code
Annotated title 32B, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction,
Class C misdemeanor or Class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the County.
Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this section
and each such violation shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2017 Code)
3-2-2: LICENSES, FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   Application: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a wholesaler or retailer of beer within the boundary of the County
without first making application for and obtaining a license from the County
for such business. Such application shall be in writing and shall show the
following:
      1.   The name and address of the person desiring a license. If the
applicant is a copartnership, the name and address of the partners, and if a
corporation, the names and addresses of all the officers and directors;
      2.   The class of license desired;
      3.   The place and location where such business is to be carried on;
      4.   Such other facts and information as may be required by ordinance,
the Statutes of the State or the County Commission.
   B.   State License: The applicant shall provide evidence of the issuance of
a State license by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
   C.   Fee Accompany Application: Each application for a license shall be
accompanied by the license fee required to be paid for the issuance of the
license, as established by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 77-3, 8-3-
1977; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2-3: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW REQUIRED:
Applicants for a license and those licensed to engage in the business of a
retailer or wholesaler of beer within the County, shall comply with all State
laws and the regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
(Ord. 77-3, 8-3-1977)
3-2-4: SANITARY PREMISES:
Before a license is issued for the consumption of beer on the premises, the
applicant must first show that the premises is in a sanitary condition and that
he has complied with all regulations of the State Board of Health relating to
the dispensing of beer. (Ord. 77-3, 8-3-1977)
3-2-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place on the premises at all
times. (Ord. 77-3, 8-3-1977)
3-2-6: TRANSFERABILITY:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be available only to the
person, copartnership or corporation specified therein and only for the
premises described in said license, and shall not be transferable to any other
person, copartnership or corporation, or any other premises. (Ord. 77-3, 8-3-
1977)
3-2-7: INSPECTIONS:
All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any peace officer of
the County, by any member of the Board of County Commissioners, by any peace
officer of the State or the County Health Officer or State Board of Health,
during the hours when the said premises is open for the transaction of
business. (Ord. 77-3, 8-3-1977)
3-2-8: REFUSAL OR REVOCATION:
The Board of County Commissioners may, with or without hearing, at its
discretion, refuse to grant any beer license applied for and may revoke any
beer license issued at any time if any applicant or licensee shall not possess
or shall cease to possess all of the qualifications required by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act or fails to comply with the ordinances of the
County, or if, in the opinion of the commission, such revocation is necessary
for the protection of public health, peace or morals, and in no such case, need
any cause be given. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the sale
of beer after revocation of his license until he may again qualify as provided
herein, to engage in the sale thereof. (Ord. 77-3, 8-3-1977)
3-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, including engaging
in business without a State and County license, shall be deemed guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 77-3, 8-3-1977; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE A.  KEGS
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: Sale Or Possession Of Kegs
3-2A-3: Penalty
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
BEER: As defined in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-102, as amended.
KEG: A container for the storage and transportation of beer, which shall
contain in excess of four (4) gallons of beer.
PERSON: An individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, association or any
other combination, and the plural as well as the singular number, unless the
intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the context.
SELL OR TO SELL: When used in this article in any prohibition, shall be
construed to include: a) to solicit or receive an order for; b) to keep or
expose for sale; c) to deliver for value; d) to peddle; e) to possess with
intent to sell; f) to traffic in; g) for any consideration, promised or
obtained, directly or indirectly or under any pretense, or by any means
whatsoever, to produce or allow to be procured for any other person. "Sale",
when so used, shall include every act of selling as defined in this definition.
(Ord. 82-4, 8-18-1982; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2A-2: SALE OR POSSESSION OF KEGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, purchase, consume or possess,
either solely or jointly with another, any beer in a keg in the unincorporated
areas of the County, except that persons licensed as manufacturers and
distributors and other licensed individuals possessing a valid license to
possess keg beer issued by a political subdivision of the State may possess keg
beer for the purpose of transportation through the County or other lawful
purposes within the County. (Ord. 82-4, 8-18-1982)
3-2A-3: PENALTY:
Violations of this article shall be punishable as a Class B misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 82-4, 8-18-1982; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LARGE PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License, Fee Required
3-3-4: Conditions And Requirements
3-3-5: Application For License
3-3-6: Processing And Issuance Of License
3-3-7: Revocation
3-3-8: Enforcement And Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the County to regulate the assemblage of large numbers of
people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire, police,
transportation and utility services regularly provided in the County in order
that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in the County, residents and
visitors alike, may be protected. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971; amd. 2017 Code)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any single
time for any purpose.
PERSON: Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society or group. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971)
3-3-3: LICENSE, FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   Application In Advance: No person shall permit, maintain, promote,
conduct, advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or
give tickets to an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of five hundred
(500) or more people which continues or can reasonably be expected to continue
for eighteen (18) or more consecutive hours, whether on public or private
property, unless a license to hold the assembly has first been issued by the
County Commissioners, application for which must be made at least thirty (30)
days in advance of the assembly. A license to hold an assembly issued to one
(1) person shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity in
connection with the holding of the licensed assembly. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971)
   B.   Separate License; Fee: A separate license shall be required for each
location in which five hundred (500) or more people assemble or can reasonably
be anticipated to assemble; the fee for each license shall be as established by
the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Maximum Permissible Number: A license shall permit the assembly of only
the maximum number of people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell
tickets to nor permit to assemble at the licensed location more than the
maximum permissible number of people.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   This chapter shall not apply to any regular established, permanent
place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, or
other similar permanently established place of assembly for assemblies which do
not exceed by more than two hundred fifty (250) people the maximum seating
capacity of the structure where the assembly is held.
      2.   This chapter shall not apply to fairs or rodeos held on regularly
established fairgrounds or rodeo grounds, nor to assemblies required to be
licensed by other ordinances and regulations of the County. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-
1971)
3-3-4: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Determination Of Maximum Number: Before an applicant may be issued a
license, the applicant shall first determine the maximum number of people which
will be assembled or admitted to the location of the assembly; provided, that
the maximum number shall not exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the
assembly and provided that, where the assembly is to continue overnight, the
maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries
of the location of the assembly by the zoning or health ordinances of the
County.
   B.   Conditions Specified: Before the applicant may be issued a license, the
applicant shall provide proof that he will furnish at his own expense before
the assembly commences:
      1.   Fence: A fence completely enclosing the proposed location, of
sufficient height and strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum
permissible number from gaining access to the assembly grounds, which shall
have at least four (4) gates, at least one (1) at or near four (4) opposite
points of the compass;
      2.   Water: Potable water, meeting all Federal and State requirements for
purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one (1) gallon per person per day and
water for bathing at the rate of at least ten (10) gallons per person per day;
      3.   Toilets: Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting
all State and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the
grounds, sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to
be assembled at the rate of at least one (1) toilet for every two hundred (200)
females and at least one (1) toilet for every three hundred (300) males,
together with an efficient, sanitary means of disposing of waste matter
deposited, which is in compliance with all State and local laws and
regulations; a lavatory with running water under pressure and a continuous
supply of soap and paper towels shall be provided with each toilet;
      4.   Solid Waste: A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in
compliance with State and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of
the solid waste production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at
the rate of at least two and one-half (21/2) pounds of solid waste per person
per day, together with a plan for holding and a plan for collecting all such
waste at least once each day of the assembly and sufficient trash cans with
tight fitting lids and personnel to perform the task;
      5.   Medical Care: Physicians and nurses licensed to practice in the
State sufficient to provide the average medical care enjoyed by residents of
the State for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least one (1) physician for every one thousand (1,000) people and at least one
(1) nurse for every one thousand five hundred (1,500) people, together with an
enclosed covered structure where treatment may be rendered, containing
separately enclosed treatment rooms for each physician, and at least one (1)
emergency ambulance available for use at all times;
      6.   Illumination: If the assembly is to continue during hours of
darkness, illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at
the rate of at least five (5) foot- candles, but not to shine unreasonably
beyond the boundaries of the enclosed location of the assembly;
      7.   Parking: A free parking area inside of the assembly grounds
sufficient to provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one (1) parking space for every four (4)
persons;
      8.   Telephones: Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to
provide service for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of
at least one (1) separate line and receiver for each one thousand (1,000)
persons;
      9.   Camping: If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping
facilities in compliance with all Federal, State and local requirements
sufficient to provide camping accommodations for the maximum number of people
to be assembled;
      10.   Security: Security guards, either regularly employed, duly sworn
off duty peace officers of the State, or private guards, licensed in the
County, sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum number of
people to be assembled at the rate of at least one (1) security guard for every
five hundred (500) people;
      11.   Fire Protection: Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing
devices and fire lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all Federal, State and
local standards for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency
personnel to efficiently operate the required equipment;
      12.   Bond: A bond, filed with the County Clerk, either in cash or
underwritten by a surety company licensed to do business in the State at the
rate of one dollar ($1.00) per person for the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble, which shall indemnify and hold harmless the County, or
any of its agents, officers, servants and employees from any liability or
causes of action which might arise by reason of granting this license, and from
any cost incurred in cleaning up any waste material produced or left by the
assembly. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971)
3-3-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required: Application for a license to hold an actual or anticipated
assembly of five hundred (500) or more persons shall be made in writing to the
County Commission at least thirty (30) days in advance of such assembly.
   B.   Oath Or Affirmation: The application shall contain a statement made
upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and
correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to
or affirmed by the individual making application in the case of an individual,
natural human being, by all officers in the case of a corporation, by all
partners in the case of a partnership, or by all officers of an unincorporated
association, society or group or, if there be no officers, by all members of
such association, society or group.
   C.   Contents, Disclosures: The application shall contain and disclose:
      1.   The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons required
to sign the application by subsection B of this section and, in the case of a
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, together with
the name, age, residence and mailing address of each person holding ten percent
(10%) or more of the stock of said corporation;
      2.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owners of all such property;
      3.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owners of all
such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an
assembly of five hundred (500) or more persons;
      4.   The nature or purpose of the assembly;
      5.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last;
      6.   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning ordinances of the
County if the assembly is to continue overnight;
      7.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
      8.   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
      9.   The plans for fencing the location of the assembly and the gates
contained in such fence;
      10.   The plans for supplying potable water, including the source, amount
available and location of outlets;
      11.   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities, including
the source, number and location, type, and the means of disposing of waste
deposited;
      12.   The plans for holding, collection and disposing of solid waste
material;
      13.   The plans to provide for medical facilities, including the location
and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and hours of
availability of physicians and nurses, and provisions for emergency ambulance
service;
      14.   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps;
      15.   The plans for parking vehicles, including size and location of
lots, points of highway access and interior roads, including routes between
highway access and parking lots;
      16.   The plans for telephone service, including the source, number and
location of telephones;
      17.   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location;
      18.   The plans for security, including the number of guards, their
names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability;
      19.   The plans for fire protection, including the number, type and
location of all protective devices, including alarms and extinguishers, and the
number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment;
      20.   The plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds, including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires and their license or permit numbers.
   D.   Bond, License Fee: The application shall include the bond required in
subsection 3-3-4B12 of this chapter and the license fee. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971)
3-3-6: PROCESSING AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The application for a license shall be processed within twenty (20) days of
receipt and shall be issued if all conditions are complied with. (Ord. 71-1, 6-
16-1971)
3-3-7: REVOCATION:
The license may be revoked by the County Commission at any time if any of the
conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not
complied with. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971)
3-3-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Injunction: The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by
injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Public Nuisance: The holding of an assembly in violation of any
provisions or condition contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public
nuisance and may be abated as such. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 71-1, 6-16-1971; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS AND VARIANCES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Special Event Permit Required; Exceptions
3-4-2: Application For Permit
3-4-3: Location Fee
3-4-4: Special Event Variance Required
3-4-5: Penalty
3-4-1: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
No individual, company or enterprise may engage in commercial photography or
filming within the County without a permit and, if appropriate, a variance,
except as follows:
   A.   News media coverage of a current newsworthy event or occurrence.
   B.   Filming or photography conducted inside a studio or business utilizing
equipment typical to that establishment.
   C.   Photography or film making conducted as part of a class or fund raising
activity inside any school building or on school grounds as part of or in the
regular course of the curriculum activities of the County school district.
   D.   Amateur snapshot photography by County residents or tourists; provided,
that said activity is not intended for commercial use, does not violate any law
or any County ordinance and does not interfere with normal traffic and does not
impact any governmental or public safety functions in the County. (Ord. 00-19,
8-8-2000)
3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any individual, company or enterprise desiring to engage in commercial
photography or filmmaking activity within the County shall, prior to commencing
said activity, obtain a special event permit for filming or photographic work
from the County.
   A.   Time Of Submittal: The application for permit shall be submitted at
least two (2) weeks prior to the event and at least four (4) days prior to the
County Commission meeting next preceding the event.
   B.   Form: The application shall be on a form established by the County.
(Ord. 00-19, 8-8-2000)
   C.   Application Fee: The applicant shall pay an application fee as
established by the Board of County Commissioners with the application.
   D.   Business License Required; Fee: The applicant shall also submit an
application for a temporary special event business license for filming or
photographic work. Fees for said business licenses shall be as established by
the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 00-19, 8-8-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Liability Insurance: Upon receiving the permit, the applicant shall
provide proof to the County that applicant has a policy of liability insurance
written on a company licensed and authorized to do business in the State in the
amount of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, naming the County as an insured.
   F.   Denial For Cause: No permit shall be approved which the County
Commission determines will create unreasonable risk to the health, safety and
welfare of any person or that will result in damage to any public property or
facility. (Ord. 00-19, 8-8-2000)
   G.   Public Safety: The applicant shall be responsible to assure adequate
security, public safety, traffic control and emergency services; and, if the
services of the County Sheriff's Office are desired, the application shall be
signed by the Sheriff indicating availability of officers. If the permit is
granted, the applicant shall pay in advance the estimated cost of law
enforcement or County personnel required. (Ord. 00-19, 8-8-2000; amd. 2017
Code)
   H.   Other Necessary Approvals: The applicant shall be required to obtain
all necessary permits or approval from any other governmental entities with
jurisdiction over the area included in the activity.
   I.   Nonliability Of County: The applicant shall be required to indemnify
the County against any claims, loss or liability associated with or arising out
of the activity.
   J.   Approval Required; Variance: The application must be approved and the
permit issued by the County Commission prior to the commencement of the filming
or photography. The permit must be approved by the County Attorney. Any
activity that will involve conduct which would ordinarily be prohibited by
State law or County ordinance, will require a variance as set forth in section
3-4-4 of this chapter. Any event or activity that will involve nudity or sexual
conduct requires a variance as set forth in section
3-4-4 of this chapter and must be conducted in a time, place and manner which
avoids offense to the general public. (Ord. 00-19, 8-8-2000)
3-4-3: LOCATION FEE:
The applicant shall, at the time the permit is issued, pay to the County a
location fee as established by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 00-19,
8-8-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
3-4-4: SPECIAL EVENT VARIANCE REQUIRED:
Any special event, as described above, which requires or will involve
activities which ordinarily would be prohibited by any County ordinance or
State Statute, cannot be undertaken until a variance permit has been granted by
the County Commission.
   A.   Application: The applicant for a variance permit must, in addition to
the application for a special event permit described in section
3-4-2 of this chapter, submit an addendum setting forth the statute or
ordinance from which a variance is requested, the location of the special
event, the anticipated duration, and describe in detail the proposed activity.
   B.   Time For Submission: Application for a variance must be submitted to
the County Commission not less than three (3) weeks prior to the date of the
proposed special event and not less than seven (7) business days prior to the
County Commission meeting immediately preceding the proposed activity or event.
   C.   Public Hearing: In the event that the activity will, in the opinion of
the County Commission, impose a substantial burden or inconvenience upon the
residents of the County or the general public, the County Commission may
require publication at the expense of the applicant of a notice of public
hearing and receive input prior to approving the permit.
   D.   Compliance: An applicant for a variance must comply with all of the
provisions set forth in sections
3-4-2 and
3-4-3 of this chapter.
   E.   Nudity Or Sexual Activity: Any special event variance involving nudity
or sexual activity must be conducted in such a way as to avoid exposure of the
activity to minors or the members of the general public not desiring to be
exposed to such conduct.
   F.   Requirements, Conditions: A variance permit shall contain such
requirements and conditions as the County Commission determines to be necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the County and its residents and
visitors.
   G.   Background Check: All persons or entities requesting a variance permit
must, if requested to do so by the County Attorney or County Sheriff, execute
an authorization for a criminal background check of the applicant and/or any
persons or entities participating in the activity requiring a variance. The
cost of the background check shall be paid by the applicant in advance.
   H.   Prior Convictions: Any applicant or any participant in the activity
requiring a variance permit that has prior felony convictions or conviction of
a misdemeanor offense involving activities similar to or related to the subject
of the variance permit may be denied a permit.
   I.   Approval Of Attorney And Sheriff: A variance application must be
approved by the County Attorney and the County Sheriff.
   J.   Form Approved: The variance permit must be approved as to form by the
County Attorney.
   K.   Delays: Due to limited staff and resources, the County cannot guarantee
processing of a permit application in less than six (6) weeks. The County shall
not be responsible for any delays caused by failure to issue a permit.
Applicants should submit permit applications as far in advance of the proposed
event as possible.
   L.   Investigation, Processing: The County shall investigate and process
applications with reasonable dispatch. In the event that the investigation or
evaluation of the permit application requires more than one (1) hour from any
employee or official of the County, the applicant may be required to compensate
for the extra time required as a condition to the permit and in addition to the
other fees set forth herein. (Ord. 00-19, 8-8-2000)
3-4-5: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter is a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of operation without a permit or in violation of
this chapter is a separate offense. (Ord. 00-19, 8-8-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Permit Required
3-5-2: Application For Permit
3-5-3: Fee; Presentation To Commission
3-5-4: Review By Commission
3-5-5: Bond Required
3-5-6: Violation
3-5-7: Penalty
3-5-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other entity desiring to
conduct exploration activities within the County for the discovery of oil, gas,
geothermal energy or other minerals, or the transportation of minerals by
pipeline, truck, conveyor, etc., shall first obtain a permit for the conduct of
such activities from the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 83-1, 1-5-1983)
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Said person or entity, desiring to conduct such activities, shall submit an
application for permit to the County Clerk. Said application shall contain:
   A.   The name of the person, persons, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or other entity making application.
   B.   The permanent address of such person or entity.
   C.   The name of all principal officers or owners of said entity, and their
addresses.
   D.   The name or names and permanent addresses of all managers or
supervisors of the exploration activities to be conducted in the County.
   E.   The telephone numbers of such persons or entities.
   F.   If a corporation, partnership or joint venture, the place where
incorporated or formed.
   G.   The legal description to any properties on which said exploration work
shall be conducted.
   H.   The name or names of owners of property on which exploration work shall
be conducted.
   I.   A map or plan attached to said application showing the specific
location and routes of planned exploration or transportation by the applicant.
   J.   The specific type of exploration or transportation activity to be
conducted by the applicant and the method by which such shall be undertaken.
   K.   The date on which said activity is set to begin and the date on which
the activity will be completed.
   L.   The name and address of the person or entity employing or contracting
with the applicant for said activities.
   M.   The name and location of all public roads to be used for the
transportation of equipment and/or the transportation of oil, gas or minerals
by truck.
   N.   The date equipment will be transported, the number of vehicles involved
and the weight of those vehicles. (Ord. 83-1, 1-5-1983)
3-5-3: FEE; PRESENTATION TO COMMISSION:
Upon receipt of said application and nonrefundable application fee as
established by the County Commission, the County Clerk shall assign a number to
said application and cause the same to be entered into books of record adopted
for that purpose. Immediately thereafter, the County Clerk shall cause said
application to be presented to the Board of County Commissioners at the next
regular meeting of said Board. (Ord. 83-1, 1-5-1983; amd. 2017 Code)
3-5-4: REVIEW BY COMMISSION:
At the next regular meeting of said Board, the Board shall review and consider
said application, designate an amount of bond as hereafter prescribed, and if
the same is satisfactory, shall cause to be issued a permit to the applicant
for the requested exploratory work. (Ord. 83-1, 1-5-1983)
3-5-5: BOND REQUIRED:
Before issuing said permit and before the applicant begins the desired work,
the applicant shall first submit to the Board evidence of a current surety bond
with a company acceptable to the Board, insuring that the applicant will repair
or replace any public roads damaged by the applicant. (Ord. 83-1, 1-5-1983)
3-5-6: VIOLATION:
If any person or legal entity shall conduct the activities outlined herein
within the County without having first complied with all provisions of this
chapter, said person or entity shall be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 83-
1, 1-5-1983)
3-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person or entity who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction of the same, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that any person or entity conducts exploration or
transportation activities, as defined herein, within the County without having
first complied with the provisions of this chapter, shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 83-1, 1-5-1983; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 6
LAND SURVEYORS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Filing Of Plats
3-6-4: Filing Fee
3-6-5: Penalty
3-6-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to provide a method for preserving evidence of land
surveys by establishing standards and procedures for monumenting and for filing
a public record of the surveys. (Ord. 89-3, 1989)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOUNDARY MONUMENT: Any physical object, regardless of type of material or
marking, intended to represent a property corner or line, whether it be at the
corner, on the line, or a recorded distance from the corner or line.
LAND SURVEYOR: A person who is qualified to practice land surveying by reason
of special knowledge of the technique of measuring land, the basic principles
of mathematics, the related physical and applied sciences, the relevant
requirements of law for adequate evidence, and the requisites to surveying of
real property, and who is licensed pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 58-
22-101 et seq., as amended, or who qualifies under one (1) of the nonlicensing
exceptions of Utah Code Annotated section 58-22-305, as amended. (Ord. 89-3,
1989; amd. 2017 Code)
3-6-3: FILING OF PLATS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Any land surveyor making a survey of private lands within the County
who establishes or reestablishes any private property boundary monument shall
file a map of the survey that meets the requirements of this section with the
County surveyor or the designated surveyor within ninety (90) days of the
establishment of the boundary monument.
      2.   The County surveyor or designated surveyor shall file and index the
map of the survey.
      3.   The map shall be a public record in the office of the County
surveyor or the designated surveyor's office.
   B.   Content Of Map: This map shall show:
      1.   The location by quarter section or lot number, section number,
township and range.
      2.   The date of the survey, meaning the date the monuments were placed.
      3.   The scale at which it is drawn and a north arrow. When viewing the
plat with the long dimension in a horizontal position, north or east must be to
the top of the plat.
      4.   The distance and bearing of all lines traced or established by the
survey. If such a line is a curve, the radius, arc length and central angle
must be shown. If the curve is not tangent to straight lines at the point of
curvature, the chord bearing must be shown as well.
      5.   The basis of bearings for the survey. The words "basis of bearing"
must be shown on the plat between two (2) existing, described government
monuments. The government monuments may be section corners, City or County
street monuments, or horizontal network stations maintained by a government
agency. The County State Plane Grid bearing must be used where it is readily
available.
      6.   A measurable mathematical relationship between the property and the
monument from which it is described. If that monument is not in place, its
mathematical location must be shown as well as a mathematical relationship to a
monument in place.
      7.   All measured bearings or distances separately indicated from those
of record if not in agreement.
      8.   A written boundary description of the property surveyed.
      9.   The mathematical relationship between all monuments found or set.
      10.   A detailed description of all monuments found or set, including
type, size, length and how marked.
      11.   The name of the person purchasing the surveying service.
      12.   The seal or stamp and signature of the registered land surveyor
responsible for the survey.
      13.   The surveyor's business name and address.
   C.   Narrative:
      1.   The map shall contain a written narrative that explains and
identifies:
         a.   The purpose of the survey.
         b.   The basis on which lines were established. The surveyor should
explain what decisions he made in formulating the boundary, such as the basis
of bearing for the description or the use of any proration methods.
         c.   The found monuments or Dee elements that controlled the
established or reestablished lines. If the description calls for any monuments
in the broad sense of the term (right-of- way lines, subdivision boundaries,
fences, etc.) the surveyor should indicate what he found relating to these
calls.
      2.   If the narrative is a separate document, it shall also contain:
         a.   Location by quarter section or lot number, section number,
township and range.
         b.   Date of survey.
         c.   Surveyor's stamp or seal and signature.
         d.   Surveyor's business name and address.
      3.   The map and narrative shall be referenced to each other if they are
separate documents.
   D.   Size: Maps shall be filed on linen or mylar at one (1) of two (2)
sizes: eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24") or twenty four inches
by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
   E.   Public Official Mark: If the monument is set by a public officer, it
shall be marked with the official title of the officer. (Ord. 89-3, 1989)
3-6-4: FILING FEE:
The County surveyor or designated surveyor shall collect a filing fee, as
established by the Board of County Commissioners, per survey filed, to cover
administration costs. (Ord. 89-3, 1989; amd. 2017 Code)
3-6-5: PENALTY:
A violation of the provisions of this chapter or conducting a survey without a
license as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 58-22-101 et seq., shall
constitute a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 89-3, 1989; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION, PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
DISASTER RESPONSE AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Legislative Findings; Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Emergency Disaster Council Created
4-1-4: Local Emergency Declaration
4-1-5: Political Subdivisions Of County; Declaration Of Local Emergency
4-1-6: Authority Of Board Of County Commissioners
4-1-7: Orders, Rules And Regulations Having Force Of Law
4-1-8: Acquisition Of Property For Public Use
4-1-9: Mutual Aid Agreements
4-1-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS; PURPOSE:
   A.   Findings: The Board of County Commissioners find that existing and
increasing threats of the occurrence of destructive disasters reacting from
attack, internal disturbance, natural phenomena or technological hazard could
greatly affect the health, safety and welfare of the people of this County, and
it is therefore necessary to grant to the Board of County Commissioners special
emergency disaster authority. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 53, chapter
2a, as amended, the Board of County Commissioners is authorized to carry out
the measures as may be ordered by the Governor. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004; amd.
2017 Code)
   B.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to assist the commission to
effectively provide emergency disaster response and recovery assistance in
order to protect the lives and property of the people of this County. (Ord. 04-
14, 5-18-2004)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ATTACK: A nuclear, conventional, biological or chemical warfare action against
the United States of America, or this State.
DISASTER: A situation causing, or threatening to cause, widespread damage,
social disruption, or injury or loss of life or property resulting from attack,
internal disturbance, natural phenomenon or technological hazard.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: The formal plan compiled by the Emergency Manager
and approved by the commission providing emergency operations procedures to be
used during a disaster.
INTERNAL DISTURBANCE: Riot, prison break, disruptive terrorism or strike.
LOCAL EMERGENCY: A condition in any area of the County which requires that
emergency assistance be provided by the County or the affected political
subdivision to save lives and protect property within its jurisdiction in
response to a disaster, or to avoid or reduce the threat of a disaster.
NATURAL PHENOMENON: Any earthquake, tornado, storm, flood, landslide,
avalanche, forest or range fire, drought or epidemic.
TECHNOLOGICAL HAZARD: Any hazardous materials accident, mine accident, truck
wreck, air crash, radiation incident, pollution, chemical weapons incident,
structural fire or explosion. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
4-1-3: EMERGENCY DISASTER COUNCIL CREATED:
   A.   Created: An Emergency Disaster Council is created to provide advice to
the Board of County Commissioners on matters relating to local government
emergency disaster response and recovery actions.
   B.   Meetings: The council shall meet at the direction of the Board of
County Commissioners.
   C.   Chairperson: The County Director of Emergency Management shall serve on
the Emergency Disaster Council as Chairperson.
   D.   Composition: The Emergency Disaster Council is comprised of the
following:
      1.   County Commissioners;
      2.   Emergency Manager;
      3.   Sheriff;
      4.   Public Works;
      5.   Tri-County Health Department representative;
      6.   County Assessor;
      7.   County Recorder;
      8.   County Treasurer;
      9.   County Clerk;
      10.   Auditor;
      11.   County building official;
      12.   Others as appointed by the commission. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
4-1-4: LOCAL EMERGENCY DECLARATION:
   A.   Authorized; Content: A "local emergency declaration" may be declared by
the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners if the Chairperson finds a
disaster has occurred or the occurrence or threat of a disaster is imminent in
any area of the County in which County government response or recovery is
required or assistance is required to supplement the response and recovery of
any subdivision of the County. The local emergency declaration shall not be
continued or renewed for a period in excess of thirty (30) days except by or
with the consent of the Board of County Commissioners. All declarations or
orders issued under this chapter shall include:
      1.   The nature of the "local emergency";
      2.   The area or areas being threatened;
      3.   The conditions creating such an emergency or those conditions
allowing termination of the "local emergency";
      4.   The number or quantity of resources or assistance needed.
   B.   Filing: Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating
a "local emergency" shall be filed promptly with the County Clerk.
   C.   Operations Plan: When the Chairperson of the Board of County
Commissioners or the Board of County Commissioners declares a disaster or
emergency, the County's emergency response will operate as outlined in the
County Emergency Operations Plan. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
4-1-5: POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS OF COUNTY; DECLARATION OF LOCAL EMERGENCY:
   A.   Scope Of Declaration: A declaration of "local emergency" by any
political subdivision of the County is official recognition that a disaster
situation exists within the affected political subdivision and provides a legal
basis for requesting and obtaining State or Federal government disaster
assistance.
   B.   Notice Delivered: Notice of any "local emergency" declared by any
political subdivision shall be promptly delivered to the County Emergency
Manager, or any member of the Board of County Commissioners.
   C.   Assistance: The Board of County Commissioners shall provide the
requested assistance and resources. If the County cannot provide such requested
assistance, the County shall declare a "local emergency".
   D.   Request For Assistance: The County Emergency Manager shall direct the
request for assistance to the State Division of Emergency Services and Homeland
Security, following a County local emergency declaration, coordinate other
local agency assistance and available resources.
   E.   Coordination Of Assistance: During any disaster where local, State or
Federal assistance is required, the County Emergency Manager shall direct and
coordinate such assistance.
   F.   Requests For Outside Assistance: All requests for outside assistance
and resources shall be coordinated through the Emergency Manager.
   G.   Unified Command Committee: If more than one (1) municipality and/or the
County declares a local emergency during the same period of time, a "Unified
Command Committee" shall be formed. The "Unified Command Committee" shall
include a representative from each of the affected jurisdictions they
represent. The representatives shall have the authority to make decisions for
the jurisdictions they represent. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
4-1-6: AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
The Board of County Commissioners, during the declared "local emergency", is
authorized and empowered to:
   A.   Enact, Suspend Laws: Enact laws, rules and regulations or suspend any
law, rule or regulation when necessary to save human life and protect property;
   B.   Utilize Resources: Utilize all available resources as reasonably
necessary to cope with the emergency;
   C.   Suspend Rules: Suspend County rules regarding overtime restrictions and
personnel use, allowing Department Heads to utilize personnel as necessary to
answer the challenges of the emergency presented to each department;
   D.   Employ Measures: Employ measures and give direction to County and local
officials and agencies which are reasonable and necessary for the purpose of
securing compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and with orders, rules
and regulations made pursuant to this chapter;
   E.   Evacuations: Approve and advise the evacuation of all or part of the
population from a stricken or threatened area within the County if necessary
for the preservation of life;
   F.   Transportation: Approve routes, modes of transportation and destination
in connection with evacuation;
   G.   Alcohol, Hazardous Materials: In connection with evacuation, suspend or
limit the sale, dispensing or transportation of alcoholic beverages, explosives
and combustibles, or other hazardous materials;
   H.   Control Of Area: Control ingress and egress to and from a disaster
area, the movement of persons within the area, and approve the occupancy or
evacuation of premises in a disaster area;
   I.   Curfew: Establish curfews for the protection of life and property in
the affected areas;
   J.   Price Freezes: Establish price freezes to prohibit the practice of
"price gouging" for items in short supply or high demand in the affected area;
   K.   Rations: Establish the ration of critical supplies necessary to sustain
life;
   L.   Removal Of Threats: Clear or remove from publicly or privately owned
land or water, debris or wreckage which may threaten public health or public
safety;
   M.   Temporary Shelters: Establish temporary shelters for the housing of
evacuated persons. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
4-1-7: ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS HAVING FORCE OF LAW:
All orders, rules and regulations promulgated by the Board of County
Commissioners shall have the full force and effect of law during the "local
emergency", provided a copy thereof is filed with the County Clerk. (Ord. 04-
14, 5-18-2004)
4-1-8: ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY FOR PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Included Property: Upon proclamation of the "local emergency", the
Board of County Commissioners may purchase or lease public or private property
for public use, including:
      1.   Food;
      2.   Medical supplies;
      3.   Clothing;
      4.   Shelter;
      5.   Means of transportation;
      6.   Fuels and oils;
      7.   Buildings or land.
   B.   Use: Such purchases under authority of this section may be used for any
purpose to meet the needs of an emergency, including its use to relieve want,
distress and disease. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
4-1-9: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The Board of County Commissioners is authorized to execute an interlocal
agreement or compact on behalf of this County with any county or municipality
concerning matters relating to a disaster affecting or likely to affect this
County. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
ARTICLE A.  EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Title
4-1A-2: Definitions
4-1A-3: Emergency Interim Succession Procedure
4-1A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION ACT. (Ord. 04-
14, 5-18-2004)
4-1A-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABSENT: Physically not present or not able to be communicated with; does not
include a person who can be reached by telephone, radio or other communications
methods.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated by the officer, who in his or
her absence, can exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the officer
when he or she is absent. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
4-1A-3: EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION PROCEDURE:
   A.   On January 1 of each year, each Department Head, with the exception of
the County Commissioners, shall:
      1.   Designate three (3) qualified emergency interim successors from
within his or her department who meet the constitutional qualifications for the
office, if any;
      2.   Specify the order of their succession;
      3.   Provide a list of those designated successors to the Emergency
Manager.
   B.   If any Department Head is unavailable following a "disaster" or "local
emergency", and if his or her deputy, if any, is not available a designated
emergency interim successor shall exercise the powers and duties of the office
according to the order of succession specified by the officer until:
      1.   The Board of County Commissioners appoints a successor to fill the
position;
      2.   A permanent successor is appointed or elected by law;
      3.   The officer, his or her deputy, or an emergency interim successor
earlier in the order of succession becomes available to exercise or resume the
powers of the office.
   C.   Emergency interim successors shall exercise the powers of the office
which they succeeded only when a disaster has occurred or has been declared.
      1.   Successors may only serve for thirty (30) days after the date of the
local emergency declaration unless approved by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      2.   Extension of emergency powers shall be by the authority of the Board
of County Commissioners and only during the time of the disaster and recovery
operations.
      3.   The Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners, or his or her
successor as set forth in subsection D of this section, shall settle all
disputes concerning emergency interim successors. Decisions of the Chairperson
or his or her successor are final.
   D.   Emergency succession of the Chairperson of the Board of County
Commissioners shall proceed as follows when a disaster response is occurring or
imminent:
      1.   The Chairperson shall serve, if available.
      2.   If the Chairperson is unavailable, the designated County
Commissioner succession shall prevail, i.e., in alphabetical order according to
County seat designation, being A, B or C seat.
      3.   If no Commissioner is available, the designated emergency interim
successors shall exercise the powers and duties of the office only until:
         a.   The vacancy is filled in accordance with the Constitution or
statutes; or
         b.   A Commissioner or Commissioners of office become available to
exercise the powers and duties of the office. (Ord. 04-14, 5-18-2004)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisance Defined
4-2-2: Illustrative Enumeration
4-2-3: Nuisance Prohibited
4-2-4: Notice To Abate
4-2-5: Contents Of Notice
4-2-6: Service Of Notice
4-2-7: Procedure
4-2-8: Hearing Request
4-2-9: Abatement By County
4-2-10: Costs Declared Lien
4-2-11: Collection Of Lawsuit Expenses
4-2-12: Violation; Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, the word nuisance is defined as any person
doing an unlawful act or omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting
a condition or thing to be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing
either:
   A.   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
or
   B.   Offends decency; or
   C.   Is offensive to the senses; or
   D.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage, any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch or drainage; or
   E.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-2: ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION:
The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions is hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, that this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   A.   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation.
   B.   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things.
   C.   Any building or structure which is unfit for human habitation, or which
is an unreasonable hazard to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or which presents an unreasonable fire hazard in the vicinity where it
is located.
   D.   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health or people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located.
   E.   All loud unnecessary or unauthorized noises or annoying vibrations.
   F.   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
condition, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches, other than reasonable and natural odors
arising from agriculture or animal husbandry; provided, that said practices are
generally accepted and reasonable within the industry and reasonable effort are
made to minimize the escape of odors from the owner's premises.
   G.   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death.
   H.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial, wastes or other
substances.
   I.   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, State or Federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained.
   J.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas or cinders, in unreasonable quantities.
   K.   Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered,
enlarged, converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of the
County planning and zoning ordinance, the County subdivision ordinance, the
applicable County building codes, or the Code of Rules and Regulations of the
Health Department of the State of Utah, or any use of land, building or
premises in violation of said ordinances or statutes. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-3: NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance. Nuisances, as defined in this chapter,
are prohibited and shall be abated. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the County, the County Clerk or
some other duly designated officer of the County shall give written notice to
the owner and occupant of the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon
the person causing or maintaining the nuisance. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-5: CONTENTS OF NOTICE:
The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall contain:
   A.   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated
time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances.
   B.   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary.
   C.   A description of what constitutes the nuisance.
   D.   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
   E.   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the County will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person. (Ord. 96-12, 12-
4-1996)
4-2-6: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
Notice shall be sufficiently given when personally served or when mailed by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address shown for the property
owner on the current tax rolls of the County. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-7: PROCEDURE:
The notice shall direct that the nuisance must be abated within not more than
sixty (60) days after date of mailing of notice, except in cases where there is
an immediate threat to the public health, safety or welfare. In that event, the
County Commission may direct a shorter time for abatement of the nuisance upon
finding that a delay would endanger the public health, safety or welfare. (Ord.
96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-8: HEARING REQUEST:
   A.   Time Limit For Filing: The person receiving notice to abate shall have
thirty (30) days in which to file a written request with the County Clerk for a
hearing. The hearing shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the notice for hearing by the County Clerk or such longer period as shall be
mutually agreed upon between the County Commission and the party.
   B.   Determination Of County Commission: The County Commission shall
determine if a nuisance exists as defined by ordinance. The procedures and
burden of proof shall be that generally applicable to administrative hearings.
   C.   Failure To Appear: If the person requesting the hearing fails to appear
or present evidence, the commission may enter its ruling by default.
   D.   Abatement Order: At the hearing, if the commission determines that a
nuisance, as defined by this chapter, does exist, the commission shall order an
abatement of the nuisance and establish a time period for the accomplishment of
the abatement. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-9: ABATEMENT BY COUNTY:
Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was served
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to abate the same, the County Clerk
or other duly designated officer of the County shall proceed to abate such
nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement
thereof. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-10: COSTS DECLARED LIEN:
Any and all costs incurred by the County in the abatement of a nuisance under
the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a lien against the property
upon which such nuisance existed, which lien shall be filed, proven and
collected as provided for by law. Such lien shall be notice to all persons from
the time of its recording, and shall bear interest at the legal rate thereafter
until satisfied. The County may also collect the expenses of abatement in the
same manner established for the collection of judgments. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-
1996)
4-2-11: COLLECTION OF LAWSUIT EXPENSES:
In the event collection of expenses of abatement are pursued through the court,
the County shall sue for and receive judgment for all of said expenses of fees,
interest and court costs and shall execute upon such judgment in the manner
provided by law. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996)
4-2-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful and a Class B misdemeanor violation for any person to
maintain or assist in maintaining a nuisance after receiving a notice to abate
the same. Notice to abate a nuisance shall be given as a prerequisite to
prosecution by delivering a copy of the notice to abate to the offender by
personal service in the manner prescribed by the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure
or by mailing a copy of the notice to abate to the offending party at the
address shown on the property tax rolls of the County, by certified U.S. mail
(return receipt requested). The notice to abate should reasonably describe the
subject nuisance and the steps necessary to abate the same and shall require
abatement to be completed within the time period set forth herein.
   B.   Failures to abate the nuisance shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day the nuisance remains unabated shall constitute a
new and separate offense. (Ord. 96-12, 12-4-1996; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Weed Control Board
4-3-3: Declaration Of Noxious Weeds
4-3-4: Notice And Control Of Noxious Weeds And Public Nuisance
4-3-5: Failure To Control; Liability Of Property Owner
4-3-6: Hearing And Appeal
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMISSION: The Daggett County Commission.
COUNTY: Daggett County, Utah.
COUNTY NOXIOUS WEED: Any plant which is not on the State noxious weeds list,
but is especially troublesome in Daggett County, and is declared by the Daggett
County Commission to be a noxious weed within Daggett County.
NOXIOUS WEED: Any plant the State Commissioner or Daggett County Commissioners
determines to be especially injurious to public health, crops, livestock, land
or other property.
REASONABLE NOTICE: Notice given by any means, whether oral or written, that
would provide actual notice to the landowner of action to be taken. It is
presumed that notice should actually be received three (3) working days after
it was sent.
STATE COMMISSIONER: The Commissioner of Agriculture and Food or the
Commissioner's representative.
TARGETED NOXIOUS WEEDS: Those weeds on the noxious weed list that the Daggett
County Weed Control Board has specifically targeted for eradication efforts.
WEED CONTROL BOARD: The Daggett County Weed Control Board. (Ord. 10-18, 6-15-
2010)
4-3-2: WEED CONTROL BOARD:
   A.   Created: There may be created a Weed Control Board within the County,
consisting of five (5) appointed members. At least two (2) members of the board
will be farmers or ranchers whose primary source of income is derived from the
production of agriculture within the County. Members will be appointed by the
commission for a term of four (4) years. Board members may be reimbursed for
expenses as determined by the commission. Members may be removed for cause and
any vacancy which occurs on the Weed Control Board shall be filled by
appointment for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
   B.   Responsibilities Of Board:
      1.   The Weed Control Board is responsible, under the general direction
of the commission, for the formulation and implementation of a coordinated
noxious weed control program designed to prevent and control noxious weeds
within the County. Such a program shall focus on a particular type of noxious
weed on a Countywide basis or on a specific weed or variety of noxious weeds
within a sector of the County.
      2.   The Weed Control Board is required, under the general direction of
the commission, to cooperate with other county weed control boards to prevent
and control the spread of noxious weeds.
      3.   The Weed Control Board may recommend, and the commission may
declare, a particular weed or competitive plant, not appearing on the State
noxious weed list, a noxious weed within the County. The commission may also
petition the State Commissioner for removal of a particular noxious weed from
the State noxious weed list. The commission may not petition the State
Commissioner to remove a noxious weed unless it has first conducted a public
hearing, after due notice.
   C.   Alternative: The Board of County Commission may appoint or contract
with an alternative authority to act as the Weed Control Board. (Ord. 10-18, 6-
15-2010; amd. 2017 Code)
4-3-3: DECLARATION OF NOXIOUS WEEDS:
In addition to any noxious weeds on the State list, the commission may declare,
by ordinance, a particular weed or competitive plant, not appearing on the
State noxious weed list, a County noxious weed within the County. (Ord. 10-18,
6-15-2010)
4-3-4: NOTICE AND CONTROL OF NOXIOUS WEEDS AND PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   General Annual Notice: The Weed Control Board, before May 1 of each
year, shall post a general notice of the noxious weeds and targeted noxious
weeds within the County in at least three (3) public places within the County.
The same notice shall be published on at least three (3) occasions in a
newspaper or other publication of general circulation within the County.
   B.   Notice To Property Owner: If the Weed Control Board determines that
particular property within the County requires prompt and definite attention to
prevent or control targeted noxious weeds, it shall serve the owner or the
person in possession of the property, personally or by certified mail, a notice
specifying when and what action should be taken on the property. Methods of
prevention or control may include definite systems of tillage, cropping, use of
chemicals, and use of livestock.
   C.   Public Nuisance Declared: An owner or person in possession of property
who, within five (5) days after notice, fails to take action to control or
prevent the spread of noxious weeds as specified in the notice or fails to
request a hearing or appeal, shall be deemed to be maintaining a public
nuisance.
   D.   Roads Regulated By Public Entities: Control of weeds in rights-of-ways
for Class A, Class B and Class C roads shall be the responsibility of the
public entity having jurisdiction over said roads.
   E.   Exception For Research, Experiment: This chapter is not intended to
apply to research labs or experiment stations operated by a governmental agency
or educational entity for the study of noxious weeds and the control thereof;
provided, that said lab or experiment station has been approved by the Weed
Control Board. (Ord. 10-18, 6-15-2010)
4-3-5: FAILURE TO CONTROL; LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   Abatement By County: If the owner or person in possession of the
property fails to take action to control or prevent the spread of noxious weeds
within five (5) working days after the property is declared a public nuisance,
the Weed Control Supervisor or authorized agent may, after reasonable
notification, enter the property, without the consent of the owner or the
person in possession, and perform any work necessary, consistent with sound
weed prevention and control practices, to control the weeds.
   B.   Payment Of Expenses: Any expense incurred by the County in controlling
the noxious weeds shall be paid by the property owner of record or the person
in possession of the property, as the case may be, within ninety (90) days
after receipt of the charges incurred by the County. If not paid within ninety
(90) days after notice of the charges, the charges, together with interest at
the prevailing legal rate, become a lien against the property and are
collectible by the County Treasurer at the time general property taxes are
collected. (Ord. 10-18, 6-15-2010)
4-3-6: HEARING AND APPEAL:
   A.   Request: Any person served with notice to control noxious weeds may
request a hearing to appeal the terms of the notice before the Weed Control
Board within five (5) days of receipt of such notice. The Weed Control Board
must hold a hearing on the matter within ten (10) days of receipt of the
request. The landowner or person in possession who has requested the hearing
may appeal the decision of the Weed Control Board to the commission. Said
appeal to the commission shall be filed within five (5) days of the date of the
Weed Control Board's decision.
   B.   Further Appeal: Any person served with notice to control noxious weeds
who have had a hearing before both the Weed Control Board and the commission
may further appeal the decision of the commission by filing written notice of
appeal with a court of competent jurisdiction, within thirty (30) days of the
commission's decision. (Ord. 10-18, 6-15-2010)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Plumbing Code Applicability
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Discharge Without Suitable Treatment Unlawful
4-4-4: Connection Requirements
4-4-5: Privies Unlawful
4-4-6: Inspection Of Sewer Connection Required
4-4-7: Compliance With County Road Cut Rules Required
4-4-8: Private Wastewater Disposal Systems
4-4-9: Use Of Public Sewer System
4-4-10: Fees And Charges
4-4-11: Notice Of Violation
4-4-12: Penalty; Liability
4-4-1: PLUMBING CODE APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of the International Plumbing Code, as adopted by the State,
shall apply to the discharge of any sewage, wastewater or other polluted waters
in the County, except as modified by this chapter. (Ord. 05-04, 4-18-2005; amd.
2017 Code)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in the International Plumbing Code shall apply to
this chapter. In addition, the following definitions shall apply:
COUNTY: Daggett County.
DISTRICT: Manila Town and/or Daggett County Water and Sewer Improvement
District. When applied to a particular system, the term "district" refers to
the entity owning or operating that system. (Ord. 05-04, 4-18-2005; amd. 2017
Code)
4-4-3: DISCHARGE WITHOUT SUITABLE TREATMENT UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet within the County, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 05-04,
4-18-2005)
4-4-4: CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sewer Connection Facilities Required When: The owners of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or
other purposes, situated within the County and abutting on any street alley or
right-of-way in which there is or becomes located a public sanitary or combined
sewer is required, at owner's expense, to install suitable facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the nearest public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within sixty (60) days after
the date of official notice to do so; provided, that the sewer is within three
hundred feet (300') of the property line. Single-family dwellings and buildings
or structures accessory thereto, existing and connected to an approved private
sewage disposal system prior to the time of connecting the premises to public
sewer may, when no hazard, nuisance or insanitary condition is evidenced,
remain connected to such properly maintained private sewage disposal system
when there is insufficient grade or fail to permit drainage to the sewer by
gravity; provided, however, the district may extend the time to connect to
accommodate County requirements prohibiting road cuts or to meet other such
County imposed regulations.
   B.   Public Sewer Connection Required When: At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system,
as provided in subsection A of this section, a direct connection shall be made
to the public sewer within sixty (60) days after notice to so connect, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled. (Ord. 05-04, 4-18-2005)
4-4-5: PRIVIES UNLAWFUL:
Except as hereinafter provided, it is unlawful to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of wastewater in any area served by the public sewer. (Ord.
05-04, 4-18-2005)
4-4-6: INSPECTION OF SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED:
Any person connecting to the public sewer system shall notify the district
which operates that system and allow that district to inspect the connection
prior to covering the installed facilities and connection. (Ord. 05-04, 4-18-
2005)
4-4-7: COMPLIANCE WITH COUNTY ROAD CUT RULES REQUIRED:
The districts and persons making connection shall comply with the County rules
and ordinances regarding road cuts. (Ord. 05-04, 4-18-2005)
4-4-8: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the State Code and the wastewater disposal regulations. (Ord. 05-
04, 4-18-2005)
4-4-9: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM:
The use of the public sewer system owned or operated by a district shall also
be subject to the rules and regulations adopted by that district, including
regulations governing fees and type of wastes that may be discharged into the
system. (Ord. 05-04, 4-18-2005)
4-4-10: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Collection Methods For Sewer Connection Fees: The district may make
charges for sewer connection fees, sewer services and water services to be
billed in a single bill to each customer and the payment of the charge for
water is accepted only when the charge for sewer connections, fees and sewer
services are paid at the same time. The County or Board may suspend water or
sewer service or both to any customer who shall become delinquent on any
charges due to the district. Any unpaid and delinquent charges for sewer or
water services shall be certified by the district to the Treasurer or Assessor
of the County. The amount of delinquent charges, together with the interest and
penalties, shall immediately upon certification become a lien on the delinquent
premises on a parity with, and collectable at the same time and in the same
manner as the general County taxes. The lien shall be held by the entity to
whom the fees are owning. All methods of enforcement are available for the
collection of the general County taxes, including the sale of delinquent
premises and shall be used in the collection of the delinquent sewer charges.
   B.   Payment Of Connection Fee: Any person required by this chapter to
connect to a public sewer, upon proof to the district imposing the connection
fee, of inability to pay the entity's connection fee when connected to the
system, shall have no more than three (3) years to pay the connection fee. The
person and the district shall sign an agreement designating the amount and
number of monthly installments and interest rate which shall be based on the
person's financial status and ability to pay for the connection. (Ord. 05-04,
4-18-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
4-4-11: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
by the County or district with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 05-04, 4-18-2005)
4-4-12: PENALTY; LIABILITY:
   A.   Any person who shall continue any violation shall be guilty of a Class
B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 05-04, 4-18-2005; amd.
2017 Code)
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the district for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the district
by reason of such violation.
   C.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter may also
be sued civilly by the County or district to require specific performance and
compliance with this chapter and the fine imposed shall be at least, but not
limited to, the amount of the cost of the connection fees or cost of the
service provided (if applicable), attorney fees and court costs, to enforce
compliance with this chapter. The fines, penalties and judgments may be
collected in any manner provided by law for the collection of judgments. (Ord.
05-04, 4-18-2005)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Intent
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Dog Licensing Requirements
4-5-4: Dogs At Large
4-5-5: Barking Dogs
4-5-6: Dogs Quarantined
4-5-7: Entrance Upon Premises For Enforcement
4-5-8: Penalty
4-5-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to provide uniform dog control regulations,
administration and enforcement. (Ord. 08-24, 12-2-2008)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words mean:
ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY: The buildings, kennels and premises operated by
Daggett County for the purposes of confining, caring for or disposing of dogs
pursuant to this chapter.
AT LARGE: Any dog owned, kept or maintained by such person to be on any public
property or private property not owned or controlled by such person within any
municipality, without being confined or restrained on a leash at all times.
DOG: Any male or female dog of any age.
NEIGHBOR: Any person residing within five hundred feet (500') of or within one
(1) block of the offending animal or animals.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any persistent or continuing barking and/or howling that
offends or irritates a neighbor.
OWNER: Any person, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that chases, harasses or shows aggression toward any person
or animal, or that tries to bite or has bitten a person or animal without
provocation. (Ord. 08-24, 12-2-2008)
4-5-3: DOG LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to own, keep, hold or harbor any dog within the County without
first obtaining a license from the County so to do.
   B.   Annual License; Fee: Every dog owner shall annually, during the month
of January, secure a license from the County for said dog. A charge as
established by the Board of County Commissioners will be made for this license.
   C.   New Dogs; Time Limit To Comply: Any person, firm or corporation
transporting a dog into the County shall be required to conform with the above
regulations within thirty (30) days.
   D.   Tag: At the time of licensing, a suitable and distinctive collar tag
shall be issued to the dog owner, which collar tag shall be affixed to the
dog's collar and must be worn at all times.
   E.   Impound For Unlicensed Dog: Any dog found in the County not licensed
and identified as described in the above provisions shall be impounded by the
County and such dog shall be held for a period of fourteen (14) days. The dog
may be returned to its owner upon proof of ownership, payment of the cost of
impounding the dog, at the rate as established by the Board of County
Commissioners, and payment of any fine assessed under the provisions of this
chapter, and payment of the license fee.
   F.   Disposal Of Unclaimed Dog: At the expiration of the fourteen (14) day
period, any dog not so claimed by its owner may be disposed of by giving it
into the possession of any person willing to pay the cost of impounding and
license, or, if not so disposed of, it shall be killed in a humane manner by a
peace officer or other designated official. (Ord. 61-3, 12-6-1961, eff. 1-1-
1962; amd. 2017 Code)
4-5-4: DOGS AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog
owned, kept or maintained by such person to be on any public property or
private property not owned or controlled by such person without being
restrained or controlled at all times.
   B.   Minimum Requirement: It shall not be a violation of this provision
unless there is a complaint of two (2) or more neighbors, or a neighbor and the
Deputy Sheriff responding to the complaint of the neighbor.
   C.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be a Class B misdemeanor,
and the owner shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
4-5-8 of this chapter.
   D.   Impoundment Of Dogs At Large:
      1.   The Sheriff's Office shall have authority to impound any dog running
at large or any vicious dog.
      2.   The Sheriff's Office shall keep a record of each dog impounded in
the animal control facility. The record will include the following:
         a.   The date of impoundment.
         b.   A description of the dog.
         c.   The date and manner of disposal.
         d.   The name, address and phone number of the person reclaiming the
dog.
         e.   The amount of fees received or collected from the impoundment.
      3.   The impoundment fee for a dog shall be as established by the Board
of County Commissioners.
      4.   Any dog not reclaimed by the owner within fourteen (14) days may be
adopted or destroyed in a humane manner. (Ord. 08-24, 12-2-2008; amd. 2017
Code)
4-5-5: BARKING DOGS:
   A.   First Complaint: Any person owning, keeping, harboring, maintaining or
having in their possession any dog or dogs which by frequent barking and/or
howling create a noise disturbance shall, upon the complaint of two (2) or more
neighbors, or a neighbor and the Deputy Sheriff responding to the complaint of
the neighbor, receive one (1) verbal warning from the responding officer that
their dog/dogs are disturbing the surrounding neighbors. (Ord. 08-24, 12-2-
2008)
   B.   Second Complaint: On the second barking dog complaint and subsequent
complaints received thereafter concerning the same address and same dog/dogs,
the owner shall be cited with a Class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as
provided in section
4-5-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-24, 12-2-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
4-5-6: DOGS QUARANTINED:
Any dog known to have bitten any person or another animal so as to cause an
abrasion of the skin, shall be placed in quarantine for observation by the
Sheriff's Office for a period of fourteen (14) days and shall not be killed or
released until the observation period concludes that the animal shows no sign
of rabies. The owner of said animal is required to pay a fee as established by
the Board of County Commissioners for every day that the animal is quarantined.
(Ord. 08-24, 12-2-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
4-5-7: ENTRANCE UPON PREMISES FOR ENFORCEMENT:
In the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, any peace officer or his
assistants are authorized to enter the premises of any person to take
possession of unlicensed, collarless, fierce, dangerous or vicious dogs when in
fresh pursuit of such dog at the time the dog goes onto private property. (Ord.
61-3, 12-6-1961, eff. 1-1-1962)
4-5-8: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 08-24, 12-2-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 6
DROUGHT RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Applicability
4-6-2: Watering Restrictions
4-6-3: Fireworks
4-6-4: Open Burning
4-6-5: Penalty
4-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   At any time when the County Commission adopts a resolution that
declares that drought conditions exist in the County, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply and be in force and effect until the County Commission
adopts a resolution declaring that the provisions of this chapter are suspended
due to improved conditions. (Ord. 02-09B, 10-1-2002)
   B.   The County hereby adopts the State fire restrictions implemented by the
Department of Natural Resources, as they may be amended from time to time,
unless or until it is determined that the County has needs which differ from
the restrictions set by the State. (Res. 12-17, 9-5-2012)
4-6-2: WATERING RESTRICTIONS:
No individual, business, company or entity shall water yards, gardens, trees,
shrubs, flowers or other landscaping around the home or property from the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. with the exception of
those using personal wells or irrigation water. Those using alternate means of
watering are required to install a permanent sign indicating such. (Ord. 02-
09B, 10-1-2002)
4-6-3: FIREWORKS:
No individual, business, company or entity shall set off or light any fireworks
in the County, except as granted permission by the County Commission. (Ord. 02-
09B, 10-1-2002)
4-6-4: OPEN BURNING:
No individual, business, company or entity shall burn an open fire in the
County, except in a fire ring. (Ord. 02-09B, 10-1-2002)
4-6-5: PENALTY:
Any individual, business, company or entity violating the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of watering in violation of this chapter shall be
a separate offense. Each fire or firework lit or set off shall be a separate
offense. (Ord. 02-09B, 10-1-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 7
DIVING OR JUMPING FROM BRIDGES, CLIFFS AND LEDGES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Prohibitions
4-7-2: Penalty
4-7-1: PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person in the County to dive or jump off of the Cart
Creek Bridge or to dive or jump off the rock cliffs or ledges surrounding
Flaming Gorge Reservoir, or the Green River. For purposes of this chapter,
"cliff" or "ledge" is defined to mean any formation of rock or soil, or
combination thereof, having a height of ten feet (10') or more from the surface
of any body of water in the County. (Ord. 02-11, 8-6-2002)
4-7-2: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 02-11, 8-6-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 8
BOATING AND WATER SAFETY
SECTION:
4-8-1: Adoption Of State Boating And Water Rules And Regulations
4-8-2: Amendments
4-8-3: Citation
4-8-1: ADOPTION OF STATE BOATING AND WATER RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Rules and Regulations contained in Utah Code Annotated title 73, as
amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, are hereby adopted as the
Boating and Water Rules and Regulations of the County, and by this reference
are made a part of this Code to the same extent and effect as though said
title, chapters, sections and rules were set forth herein in full. Any
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 73 providing a penalty greater than a
Class B misdemeanor, or not relating to criminal or administrative sanctions,
are not incorporated as part of this chapter. (Ord. 06-07, 5-16-2006; amd. 2017
Code)
4-8-2: AMENDMENTS:
In order to assure continuing uniformity between the State Boating and Water
Rules and Regulations and the County Boating and Water Rules and Regulations,
as required by Utah Code Annotated section 73-18-17, this chapter will include
any and all periodic amendments to the State Rules and Regulations, Utah Code
Annotated title 73, after the effective date hereof, made by the State
legislature or by the State Department of Natural Resources. (Ord. 06-07, 5-16-
2006; amd. 2017 Code)
4-8-3: CITATION:
This chapter shall be designated as a County ordinance by substituting this
chapter for Utah Code Annotated title 73, followed by the appropriate chapter
and section numbers of Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 06-07, 5-16-2006)
CHAPTER 9
WILDLIFE RESOURCES
SECTION:
4-9-1: Adoption Of State Wildlife Resources Code, Rules And Regulations
4-9-2: Amendments
4-9-3: Citation
4-9-1: ADOPTION OF STATE WILDLIFE RESOURCES CODE, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Rules and Regulations contained in Utah Code Annotated title 23, as
amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, are hereby adopted as the
Wildlife Resources Code, Rules and Regulations of the County, and by this
reference are made a part of this Code to the same extent and effect as though
said title, chapters, sections and rules were set forth herein in full. Any
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 23 providing a penalty greater than a
Class B misdemeanor, or not relating to criminal or administrative sanctions,
are not incorporated as part of this chapter. (Ord. 06-08, 5-16-2006)
4-9-2: AMENDMENTS:
In order to assure continuing uniformity between the State Wildlife Resources
Code, Rules and Regulations, and the County Wildlife Resources Rules and
Regulations, this chapter will include any and all periodic amendments to the
State Rules and Regulations, Utah Code Annotated title 23, after the effective
date hereof, made by the State legislature or by the State Department of
Natural Resources. (Ord. 06-08, 5-16-2006; amd. 2017 Code)
4-9-3: CITATION:
This chapter shall be designated as a County ordinance by substituting this
chapter for Utah Code Annotated title 23, followed by the appropriate chapter
and section numbers of Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 06-08, 5-16-2006)
CHAPTER 10
WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE CODE
SECTION:
4-10-1: Adoption Of Wildland Urban Interface Code And Maps
4-10-1: ADOPTION OF WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE CODE AND MAPS:
   A.   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the Utah Wildland Urban
Interface Code as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 65A-8-201 et seq.
(Res. 08-10, 4-15-2008; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   The Board of Commissioners adopts and incorporates the maps of the
County indicating the exempt areas, the low fire risk areas, the moderate fire
risk areas and the high fire risk areas, subject to modification.
   C.   The maps representing the exempt areas, the low fire risk areas, the
moderate fire risk areas and the high fire risk areas are to be kept with the
Secretary of the Planning Commission and are available for inspection by the
public. (Res. 08-10, 4-15-2008)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLE ACT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Utah Code Adopted; Excerpts Of Utah Code
5-1-2: Disability Parking
5-1-3: Open Container
5-1-4: Speed Regulations
5-1-5: School Zone Speed Limit
5-1-6: Minimum Speed Regulations
5-1-7: Speed Contest Or Exhibition On Highway - Barricade Or Obstruction
5-1-8: Turning Or Changing Lanes; Signaling; Stopping Or Sudden Decrease In
Speed
5-1-9: Emergency Vehicles
5-1-10: Stopping, Standing, Parking
5-1-11: All-Terrain Or Utility Type Vehicle
5-1-12: Unsafe Or Improperly Equipped Vehicles
5-1-13: Safety Chains On Towed Vehicles
5-1-14: Occupancy In A Trailer Or Semitrailer
5-1-15: Materials On Highways
5-1-16: Careless Driving
5-1-17: Seat Belt Or Child Restraint Required
5-1-18: Vehicles Operated On Posted Public Land
5-1-19: Headgear Requirements
5-1-20: Failure To Secure New License Plates
5-1-21: Operating An Off-Highway Vehicle On Or Within The Boundaries Of An
Interstate Freeway
5-1-22: Failure To Observe Flashing Amber Lights On A School Bus
5-1-23: Littering
5-1-24: Improper Passing Of Vehicles - Same Direction
5-1-25: Improper Usage Of Lanes
5-1-26: Failure To Stop For Emergency Vehicle Using Audible Or Visual Signals
5-1-27: Allowing Unlicensed Person To Drive
5-1-28: Driving On Denied, Suspended, Disqualified, Or Revoked License
5-1-29: Operating A Vehicle Without Insurance
5-1-30: Operating A Vehicle Without Proof Of Insurance
5-1-31: Failure To Obey Waterway Speed And Proximity Rules
5-1-32: Waterway Speed When Passenger Riding On Certain Motorboat Areas
5-1-33: Passenger Riding On Motorboat Lacking Passenger- Designed Seating
5-1-34: Displaying Waterway-Navigation Lights Between Sunset And Sunrise
5-1-35: Failure To Display Motorboat Or Sailboat Bow Numbers
5-1-36: Expired, Improper, Or No Current Registration For Motorboat Or Sailboat
5-1-37: Motorboat Or Sailboat Registration Number Requirements
5-1-38: Safety Equipment Required To Be On Board Water Vessels
5-1-1: UTAH CODE ADOPTED; EXCERPTS OF UTAH CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly
impractical or inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as
provided, all of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions,
penalties, provisions and sections of the Utah Motor Vehicle Act, Utah Code
Annotated title 41, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction,
Class C misdemeanor or Class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the County.
Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this section
and each such violation shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Excerpts Of Utah Code: Remaining sections of this chapter are brief
summarizations from sections of title 41 of the Utah Code and are not to be
interpreted as all-inclusive. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-2: DISABILITY PARKING:
Only those vehicles carrying a person with a disability special group license
plate, temporary removable windshield placard, or removable windshield placard
and transporting a qualifying person with a disability may park in a parking
space labeled as a disability accessible parking space. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-3: OPEN CONTAINER:
A person may not keep, carry, possess, transport, or allow another to keep,
carry, possess, or transport in the passenger compartment of a motor vehicle,
when the vehicle is on any highway or waters of the State, any container which
contains any alcoholic beverage if the container has been opened, its seal
broken, or the contents of the container partially consumed. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-
2018)
5-1-4: SPEED REGULATIONS:
A person may not operate a vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the existing conditions, giving regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-5: SCHOOL ZONE SPEED LIMIT:
A person may not operate a vehicle at a speed greater than twenty (20) miles
per hour in a reduced speed school zone. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-6: MINIMUM SPEED REGULATIONS:
A person may not operate a motor vehicle at a speed so slow as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-7: SPEED CONTEST OR EXHIBITION ON HIGHWAY - BARRICADE OR OBSTRUCTION:
A person may not engage in any motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of
speed on a highway and may not, in any manner, obstruct or place any barricade
or obstruction or assist or participate in placing any barricade or obstruction
upon any highway for any purpose prohibited. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-8: TURNING OR CHANGING LANES; SIGNALING; STOPPING OR SUDDEN DECREASE IN
SPEED:
   A.   A person may not turn a vehicle or move right or left on a roadway or
change lanes until:
      1.   The movement can be made with reasonable safety; and
      2.   An appropriate signal has been given as provided under this section.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left or to change lanes shall be
given continuously for at least the last two (2) seconds preceding the
beginning of the movement.
   C.   A person may not stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal to the operator of any vehicle
immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give a signal. (Ord. 18-
11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-9: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Except when otherwise directed by a peace officer, the operator of a vehicle
shall, upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle using
audible or visual signals under Utah Code:
   A.   Yield the right-of-way and immediately move to a position parallel to,
and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the highway, clear
of any intersection; and
   B.   Then stop and remain stopped until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-10: STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING:
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law, the directions of a peace officer, or a traffic-control device, a
person may not stop, stand, or park, in any place where a traffic-control
device prohibits stopping, standing, or parking. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-11: ALL-TERRAIN OR UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE:
The owner of an all-terrain type I vehicle or a utility type vehicle being
operated as a street-legal ATV shall ensure that the vehicle is equipped with
necessary devices as established by Utah Code. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-12: UNSAFE OR IMPROPERLY EQUIPPED VEHICLES:
A person may not operate or move and an owner may not cause or knowingly permit
to be operated or moved on a highway a vehicle or combination of vehicles which
is unsafe or improperly equipped according to Utah Code. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-
2018)
5-1-13: SAFETY CHAINS ON TOWED VEHICLES:
A towed vehicle shall be coupled by means of a safety chain, cable or
equivalent device, in addition to the regular trailer hitch or coupling. (Ord.
18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-14: OCCUPANCY IN A TRAILER OR SEMITRAILER:
A person may not occupy a trailer or semitrailer while it is being drawn by a
motor vehicle on a public highway. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-15: MATERIALS ON HIGHWAYS:
A person may not throw, deposit, or discard, or permit to be dropped, thrown,
deposited, or discarded on any public road or highway in the State, whether
under State, County, Municipal, or Federal ownership, any plastic container,
glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, barbed wire, boards, trash or
garbage, paper or paper products, or any other substance which would or could:
a) create a safety or health hazard on the public road or highway; or b) mar or
impair the scenic aspect or beauty of the public road or highway. (Ord. 18-11,
5-15-2018)
5-1-16: CARELESS DRIVING:
   A.   A person operating a motor vehicle is guilty of careless driving if the
person:
      1.   Commits two (2) or more moving traffic violations under this chapter
in a series of acts within a single continuous period of driving covering three
(3) miles or less in total distance; or
      2.   Commits a moving traffic violation under this chapter other than a
moving traffic violation under Utah Code, while being distracted by one or more
activities taking place within the vehicle that are not related to the
operation of a motor vehicle. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-17: SEAT BELT OR CHILD RESTRAINT REQUIRED:
   A.   The operator of a motor vehicle operated on a highway shall:
      1.   Wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt;
      2.   Provide for the protection of each person younger than eight (8)
years of age by using a child restraint device to restrain each person in the
manner prescribed by the manufacturer of the device; and
      3.   Provide for the protection of each person eight (8) years of age up
to sixteen (16) years of age by securing, or causing to be secured, a properly
adjusted and fastened safety belt on each person. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-18: VEHICLES OPERATED ON POSTED PUBLIC LAND:
Currently registered off-highway vehicles may be operated on public land,
trails, streets, or highways that are posted by sign or designated by map or
description as open to off- highway vehicle use by the controlling Federal,
State, County, or Municipal agency. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-19: HEADGEAR REQUIREMENTS:
A person under the age of eighteen (18) may not operate or ride on all-terrain
type I vehicles, snowmobiles, or motorcycles on public land unless the person
is wearing a properly fitted and fastened, United States Department of
Transportation safety-rated protective headgear designed for motorized vehicle
use. (Ord. 18-11, 5-15-2018)
5-1-20: FAILURE TO SECURE NEW LICENSE PLATES:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   The new owner of a vehicle, before operating or permitting the
operation of a transferred vehicle on a highway, shall:
         a.   Present to the Utah Motor Vehicle Division the certificate of
registration and the certificate of title, properly endorsed;
         b.   Apply for a new certificate of title and obtain a new
registration for the transferred vehicle, as upon an original registration,
except as permitted under Utah Code Annotated, sections 41-1a-223, 41-1a-520,
and 41-1a-704; and
         c.   Apply to the Utah Motor Vehicle Division to have the license
plates assigned to the new registered owner of the transferred vehicle if the
license plates were included as part of the sale, trade, or ownership release
of the transferred vehicle.
      2.   As used in this section:
CERTIFICATE OF TITLE: Means a document issued by a jurisdiction to establish a
record of ownership between an identified owner and the described vehicle,
vessel, or outboard motor.
HIGHWAY: Means the entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part of it is open to the public, as a matter of
right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
OWNER: Means a person, other than a lienholder, holding title to a vehicle,
vessel, or outboard motor whether or not the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor
is subject to a security interest.
REGISTRATION: Means a document issued by a jurisdiction that allows operation
of a vehicle or vessel on the highways or waters of this State for the time
period for which the registration is valid and that is evidence of compliance
with the registration requirements of the jurisdiction.
TITLE: Means the right to or ownership of a vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor.
VEHICLE: Includes a motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, off-highway vehicle,
camper, park model recreational vehicle, manufactured home, and mobile home.
      3.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-
2019)
5-1-21: OPERATING AN OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE ON OR WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF AN
INTERSTATE FREEWAY:
   A.   It is unlawful for an off-highway vehicle to operate along, across, or
within the boundaries of an interstate freeway.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "off-highway vehicle" includes any
snowmobile, all-terrain type I vehicle, all- terrain type II vehicle, all-
terrain type III vehicle, or motorcycle.
   C.   As used in this section:
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE I VEHICLE: Means any motor vehicle fifty two inches (52") or
less in width, having an unladen dry weight of one thousand five hundred
(1,500) pounds or less, traveling on three (3) or more low pressure tires,
having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator, and designed for or
capable of travel over unimproved terrain.
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE II VEHICLE: Means any motor vehicle eighty inches (80") or
less in width, traveling on four (4) or more low pressure tires, having a
steering wheel, non- straddle seating, a rollover protection system, and
designed for or capable of travel over unimproved terrain, and is:
      1.   An electric-powered vehicle; or
      2.   A vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine and has an
unladen dry weight of two thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds or less.
"All-terrain type II vehicle" does not include golf carts, any vehicle designed
to carry a person with a disability, any vehicle not specifically designed for
recreational use, or farm tractors as defined under Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-1a-102.
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE III VEHICLE: Means any other motor vehicle, not defined in
Utah Code Annotated, section 41-22-2(2), (3), (12), or (22), designed for or
capable of travel over unimproved terrain.
      1.   "All-terrain type III vehicle" does not include golf carts, any
vehicle designed to carry a person with a disability, any vehicle not
specifically designed for recreational use, or farm tractors as defined under
Utah Code Annotated, section 41-1a-102.
MOTORCYCLE: Means every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
operator and designed to travel on not more than two (2) tires.
SNOWMOBILE: Means any motor vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice and
steered and supported in whole or in part by skis, belts, cleats, runners, or
low pressure tires.
   D.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-22: FAILURE TO OBSERVE FLASHING AMBER LIGHTS ON A SCHOOL BUS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   The operator of a vehicle on a highway, upon meeting or overtaking a
school bus which is displaying alternating flashing amber warning light
signals, shall slow the vehicle, but may proceed past the school bus using due
care and caution at a speed not greater than twenty (20) miles per hour for the
safety of the school children that may be present in the vicinity.
      2.   For purposes of this section, "automated traffic enforcement safety
device" means a device that:
         a.   Is affixed to a school bus;
         b.   Is capable of detecting a vehicle unlawfully overtaking or
passing a school bus;
         c.   Is capable of producing a photograph or video image of the rear
of a vehicle, including an image of the vehicle's license plate; and
         d.   Produces a time stamp on the photograph or video image described
in subsection A6 of this section.
      3.   As used in this section:
HIGHWAY: Means the entire width between property lines of every way or place of
any nature when any part of it is open to the use of the public as a matter of
right for vehicular travel.
OPERATOR: Means:
         a.   A human driver, as defined in Utah Code Annotated, section 41-26-
102.1, that operates a vehicle; or
         b.   An automated driving system, as defined in Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-26-102.1, that operates a vehicle.
SCHOOL BUS: Means a motor vehicle that:
         a.   Complies with the color and identification requirements of the
most recent edition of "Minimum Standards for School Buses"; and
         b.   Is used to transport school children to or from school or school
activities.
VEHICLE: Means a device in, on, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on a highway, except a mobile carrier, as defined in Utah
Code Annotated, section 41-6a-1120, or a device used exclusively on stationary
rails or tracks.
         a.   "Vehicle" includes a motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, off-
highway vehicle, camper, park model recreational vehicle, manufactured home,
and mobile home.
      4.   A violation of this section is a Class C misdemeanor and the minimum
fine is:
         a.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
         b.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second offense within three
(3) years of a previous conviction or bail forfeiture; and
         c.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third or subsequent offense
within three (3) years of a previous conviction or bail forfeiture.
      5.   A court of competent jurisdiction may order a person convicted of
violating this section to perform compensatory service in lieu of the fine or
any portion of the fine if the court includes its reasons for the waiver as
part of the record.
      6.   In accordance with Utah Code Annotated, sections 78A-5-110, 78A-6-
210, and 78A-7-120, as applicable, if a photograph or video image obtained from
an automated traffic enforcement safety device was used as evidence of a
violation of this section, twenty percent (20%) of the fine collected under
subsection A4 of this section shall be deposited with the school district or
private school that owns or contracts for the operation of the bus to offset
the costs of the automated traffic enforcement safety device. (Ord. 19-12, 7-
30-2019)
5-1-23: LITTERING:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   A person may not throw, deposit, or discard, or permit to be
dropped, thrown, deposited, or discarded on any public road or highway in the
State, whether under State, County, Municipal, or Federal ownership, any
plastic container, glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, barbed wire,
boards, trash or garbage, paper or paper products, or any other substance which
would or could:
         a.   Create a safety or health hazard on the public road or highway;
or
         b.   Mar or impair the scenic aspect or beauty of the public road or
highway.
      2.   A person who drops, throws, deposits, or discards, or permits to be
dropped, thrown, deposited, or discarded, on any public road or highway any
destructive, injurious, or unsightly material shall:
         a.   Immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed; and
         b.   Deposit the material in a receptacle designed to receive the
material.
      3.   A person distributing commercial handbills, leaflets, or other
advertising shall take whatever measures are reasonably necessary to keep the
material from littering public roadways or highways.
      4.   A person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a public road or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped from the
vehicle on the road or highway.
      5.   A person may not throw any lighted material from a moving vehicle.
      6.   Except as provided under Utah Code Annotated, section 72-7-409, any
person transporting loose cargo by truck, trailer, or other motor vehicle shall
secure the cargo in a reasonable manner to prevent the cargo from littering or
spilling on both public and private property or public roadways.
      7.   A law enforcement officer as defined under Utah Code Annotated,
section 53-13-103, within the officer's jurisdictional authority in Daggett
County:
         a.   Shall enforce the provisions of this section;
         b.   May issue citations to a person who violates any of the
provisions of this section; and
         c.   May serve and execute all warrants, citations, and other process
issued by any court in enforcing this section.
      8.   Under Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-1712(8), Daggett County may
enact local ordinances to carry out the provisions of this section.
      9.   As used in this section:
HIGHWAY: Means the entire width between property lines of every way or place of
any nature when any part of it is open to the use of the public as a matter of
right for vehicular travel.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Means a vehicle that is self-propelled and a vehicle that is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
         a.   "Motor vehicle" does not include:
              (1) Vehicles moved solely by human power;
              (2) Motorized wheelchairs;
              (3) An electric personal assistive mobility device;
              (4) An electric assisted bicycle;
              (5) A motor assisted scooter;
              (6) A personal delivery device, as defined in Utah Code
Annotated, section 41-6a-1119; or
              (7) A mobile carrier, as defined in Utah Code Annotated, section
41-6a-1120.
TRAILER: Means a vehicle with or without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and constructed so
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
         a.   "Trailer" does not include a pole trailer.
TRUCK: Means a motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
VEHICLE: Means a device in, on, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on a highway, except a mobile carrier, as defined in Utah
Code Annotated, section 41-6a-1120, or a device used exclusively on stationary
rails or tracks.
         a.   "Vehicle" includes a motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, off-
highway vehicle, camper, park model recreational vehicle, manufactured home,
and mobile home.
      10.   A person who violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of an infraction and shall be fined:
         a.   Not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a violation; or
         b.   Not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second or
subsequent violation within three (3) years of a previous violation of this
section.
      11.   The sentencing Judge may require that the offender devote at least
eight (8) hours in cleaning up:
         a.   Litter caused by the offender; and
         b.   Existing litter from a safe area designated by the sentencing
Judge. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-24: IMPROPER PASSING OF VEHICLES - SAME DIRECTION:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   On any highway:
         a.   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction shall:
            (1)   Except as provided under Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-
705, promptly pass the overtaken vehicle on the left at a safe distance; and
            (2)   Enter a right-hand lane or the right side of the roadway only
when safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
         b.   The operator of an overtaken vehicle:
            (1)   Shall give way to the right in favor of the overtaking
vehicle; and
            (2)   May not increase the speed of the vehicle until completely
passed by the overtaking vehicle.
         c.   The exemption from the minimum speed regulations for a vehicle
operating on a grade under Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-605 does not
exempt the vehicle from promptly passing a vehicle as required under subsection
A1a(1) of this section.
      2.   On a highway having more than one lane in the same direction, the
operator of a vehicle traveling in the left general purpose lane:
         a.   Shall, upon being overtaken by another vehicle in the same lane,
yield to the overtaking vehicle by moving safely to a lane to the right; and
         b.   May not impede the movement or free flow of traffic in the left
general purpose lane.
      3.   An operator of a vehicle traveling in the left general purpose lane
that has a vehicle following directly behind the operator's vehicle at a
distance so that less than two (2) seconds elapse before reaching the location
of the operator's vehicle when space is available for the operator to yield to
the overtaking vehicle by traveling in the right-hand lane is prima facie
evidence that the operator is violating subsection A2 of this section.
      4.   The provisions of subsection A2 of this section do not apply to an
operator of a vehicle traveling in the left general purpose lane when:
         a.   Overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction in accordance with subsection A1a of this section;
         b.   Preparing to turn left or taking a different highway or an exit
on the left;
         c.   Responding to emergency conditions;
         d.   Avoiding actual or potential traffic moving onto the highway from
an acceleration or merging lane; or
         e.   Following the direction of a traffic-control device that directs
the use of a designated lane.
      5.   An individual may engage in lane filtering only when the following
conditions exist:
         a.   The individual is operating a motorcycle;
         b.   The individual is on a roadway divided into two (2) or more
adjacent traffic lanes in the same direction of travel;
         c.   The individual is on a roadway with a speed limit of forty five
(45) miles per hour or less;
         d.   The vehicle being overtaken in the same lane is stopped;
         e.   The motorcycle is traveling at a speed of fifteen (15) miles per
hour or less; and
         f.   The movement may be made safely.
      6.   As used in this section:
HIGHWAY: Means the entire width between property lines of every way or place of
any nature when any part of it is open to the use of the public as a matter of
right for vehicular travel.
LANE FILTERING: Means, when operating a motorcycle other than an autocycle, the
act of overtaking and passing another vehicle that is stopped in the same
direction of travel in the same lane.
MOTORCYCLE: Means:
         a.   A motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or saddle
for the use of the rider and designed to travel with not more than three (3)
wheels in contact with the ground; or
         b.   An autocycle.
OPERATOR: Means:
         a.   A human driver, as defined in Utah Code Annotated, section 41-26-
102.1, that operates a vehicle; or
         b.   An automated driving system, as defined in Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-26-102.1, that operates a vehicle.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE: Means a sign, signal, marking, or device not
inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by a highway authority for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
VEHICLE: Means a device in, on, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on a highway, except a mobile carrier, as defined in Utah
Code Annotated, section 41-6a-1120, or a device used exclusively on stationary
rails or tracks.
         a.   "Vehicle" includes a motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, off-
highway vehicle, camper, park model recreational vehicle, manufactured home,
and mobile home.
      7.   A violation of subsection A1, A2, or A5 of this section is an
infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-25: IMPROPER USAGE OF LANES:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   On a roadway divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for
traffic, the following provisions apply:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A1c of this section:
            (1)   A person operating a vehicle:
               (A) Shall keep the vehicle as nearly as practical entirely
within a single lane; and
               (B) May not move the vehicle from the lane until the operator
has reasonably determined the movement can be made safely.
         b.   A determination under subsection A1a(1)(B) of this section is
reasonable if a reasonable person acting under the same conditions and having
regard for actual and potential hazards then existing would determine that the
movement could be made safely.
         c.   Subsection A1a of this section does not apply to an individual
operating a motorcycle engaging in lane filtering as described in Utah Code
Annotated, section 41-6a-704 (see subsections 5-1-24A5 and A6 of this chapter).
      2.   On a roadway divided into three (3) or more lanes and providing for
two-way movement of traffic, a person operating a vehicle may not drive in the
center lane except:
         a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction, and when the center lane is:
            (1)   Clear of traffic within a safe distance; and
            (2)   Not a two-way left turn lane;
         b.   In preparation of making or completing a left turn in compliance
with Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-801; or
         c.   Where the center lane is allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the same direction that the vehicle is proceeding as indicated by traffic-
control devices.
      3.   Notwithstanding subsection A2a of this section and in accordance
with subsection A1a of this section, a person operating a vehicle may drive in
a center lane that is a two- way left turn lane if:
         a.   The center lane is:
            (1)   On a roadway divided into three (3) or more lanes that
provides for two-way movement of traffic; and
            (2)   Clear of traffic within a safe distance;
         b.   There is only one lane of travel in the direction the person
operating the vehicle is traveling; and
         c.   The person operating the vehicle is overtaking and passing a
bicycle or moped that is moving at less than the reasonable speed of traffic
that is present.
      4.   A highway authority may erect traffic-control devices directing
specified traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be
used by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of
the roadway.
         a.   An operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of a traffic-
control device erected under this subsection A4.
      5.   As used in this section:
BICYCLE: Means a wheeled vehicle:
         a.   Propelled by human power by feet or hands acting upon pedals or
cranks;
         b.   With a seat or saddle designed for the use of the operator;
         c.   Designed to be operated on the ground; and
         d.   Whose wheels are not less than fourteen inches (14") in diameter.
         e.   "Bicycle" includes an electric assisted bicycle.
         f.   "Bicycle" does not include scooters and similar devices.
HIGHWAY AUTHORITY: Means the department or the legislative, executive, or
governing body of a county or municipality.
LANE FILTERING: Means, when operating a motorcycle other than an autocycle, the
act of overtaking and passing another vehicle that is stopped in the same
direction of travel in the same lane.
MOPED: Means a motor-driven cycle having:
         a.   Pedals to permit propulsion by human power; and
         b.   A motor that:
              (1) Produces not more than two (2) brake horsepower; and
              (2) Is not capable of propelling the cycle at a speed in excess
of thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground.
         c.   If an internal combustion engine is used, the displacement may
not exceed fifty (50) cubic centimeters and the moped shall have a power drive
system that functions directly or automatically without clutching or shifting
by the operator after the drive system is engaged.
         d.   "Moped" does not include:
              (1) An electric assisted bicycle; or
              (2) A motor assisted scooter.
MOTORCYCLE: Means:
         a.   A motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or saddle
for the use of the rider and designed to travel with not more than three (3)
wheels in contact with the ground; or
         b.   An autocycle.
OPERATOR: Means:
         a.   A human driver, as defined in Utah Code Annotated, section 41-26-
102.1, that operates a vehicle; or
         b.   An automated driving system, as defined in Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-26-102.1, that operates a vehicle.
ROADWAY: Means that portion of highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
         a.   "Roadway" does not include the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder, even
though any of them are used by persons riding bicycles or other human- powered
vehicles.
         b.   "Roadway" refers to any roadway separately but not to all
roadways collectively, if a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways.
TRAFFIC: Means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for the purpose
of travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE: Means a sign, signal, marking, or device not
inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by a highway authority for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
VEHICLE: Means a device in, on, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on a highway, except a mobile carrier, as defined in Utah
Code Annotated, section 41-6a-1120, or a device used exclusively on stationary
rails or tracks.
      6.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-
2019)
5-1-26: FAILURE TO STOP FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLE USING AUDIBLE OR VISUAL SIGNALS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Except when otherwise directed by a peace officer, the operator of a
vehicle, upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle using
audible or visual signals under Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-212 or 41-
6a-1625, shall:
         a.   Yield the right-of-way and immediately move to a position
parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the
highway, clear of any intersection; and
         b.   Then stop and remain stopped until the authorized emergency
vehicle has passed.
      2.   The operator of a vehicle, upon approaching a stationary authorized
emergency vehicle that is displaying alternately flashing red, red and white,
or red and blue lights, shall:
         a.   Reduce the speed of the vehicle;
         b.   Provide as much space as practical to the stationary authorized
emergency vehicle; and
         c.   If traveling in a lane adjacent to the stationary authorized
emergency vehicle and if practical, with due regard to safety and traffic
conditions, make a lane change into a lane not adjacent to the authorized
emergency vehicle.
      3.   If the operator of a vehicle is traveling in an HOV lane, upon
approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle that is displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, or red and blue lights, the
requirements in subsection A2 of this section apply.
         a.   The operator of a vehicle traveling in an HOV lane, upon
approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle that is displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, or red and blue lights, shall, if
practical, with due regard to safety and traffic conditions, make a lane change
out of the HOV lane into a lane not adjacent to the authorized emergency
vehicle.
      4.   The operator of a vehicle, upon approaching a stationary tow truck
or highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying flashing amber lights, shall:
         a.   Reduce the speed of the vehicle; and
         b.   Provide as much space as practical to the stationary tow truck or
highway maintenance vehicle.
      5.   The operator of a vehicle traveling in an HOV lane, upon approaching
a stationary tow truck or highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying
flashing amber lights, shall, if practical, with due regard to safety and
traffic conditions, make a lane change out of the HOV lane into a lane not
adjacent to the tow truck or highway maintenance vehicle.
      6.   This section does not relieve the operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle, tow truck, or highway maintenance vehicle from the duty to
drive with regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
      7.   In addition to the penalties prescribed under subsection A14 of this
section, a person who violates this section shall attend a four (4) hour live
classroom defensive driving course approved by:
         a.   The Utah Driver License Division; or
         b.   A court in this State.
      8.   Upon completion of the four (4) hour live classroom course under
subsection A7 of this section, the person shall provide to the Utah Driver
License Division a certificate of attendance of the classroom course.
      9.   The Utah Driver License Division shall suspend a person's driver
license for a period of ninety (90) days if the person:
         a.   Violates a provision of subsections A1 through A5 of this
section; and
         b.   Fails to meet the requirements of subsection A7 of this section
within ninety (90) days of sentencing for or pleading guilty to a violation of
this section.
      10.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A9 of this section,
the Utah Driver License Division shall shorten the 90-day suspension period
imposed under subsection A9 of this section effective immediately upon
receiving a certificate of attendance of the four (4) hour live classroom
course required under subsection A7 of this section if the certificate of
attendance is received before the completion of the suspension period.
      11.   A person whose license is suspended under subsection A9 of this
section and a person whose suspension is shortened as described under
subsection A10 of this section shall pay the license reinstatement fees under
Utah Code Annotated, section 53-3-105(24).
      12.   In accordance with Utah Code Annotated, title 63G, chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, the Utah Driver License Division shall make
rules to implement the provisions of this part.
      13.   As used in this section:
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Includes:
         a.   Fire Department vehicles;
         b.   Police vehicles;
         c.   Ambulances; and
         d.   Other publicly or privately owned vehicles as designated by the
Commissioner of the Department of Public Safety.
HIGHWAY: Means the entire width between property lines of every way or place of
any nature when any part of it is open to the use of the public as a matter of
right for vehicular travel.
INTERSECTION: Means the area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curblines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) or more highways that join one another.
         a.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart:
            (1)   Every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an
intersecting highway is a separate intersection; and
            (2)   If the intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways
thirty feet (30') or more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of the
highways is a separate intersection.
         b.   "Intersection" does not include the junction of an alley with a
street or highway.
OPERATOR: Means:
         a.   A human driver, as defined in Utah Code Annotated, section 41-26-
102.1, that operates a vehicle; or
         b.   An automated driving system, as defined in Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-26-102.1, that operates a vehicle.
PEACE OFFICER: Means a peace officer authorized under Utah Code Annotated,
title 53, chapter 13, Peace Officer Classifications, to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic laws.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Means the right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a
lawful manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity that give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
TRAFFIC: Means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for the purpose
of travel.
TRUCK: Means a motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
VEHICLE: Means a device in, on, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on a highway, except a mobile carrier, as defined in Utah
Code Annotated, section 41-6a-1120, or a device used exclusively on stationary
rails or tracks.
      14.   A violation of subsection A1, A2, A3, A4, or A5 of this section is
an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-27: ALLOWING UNLICENSED PERSON TO DRIVE:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   A person may not authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned
by him or under his control to be driven by a person in violation of Utah Code
Annotated, title 53, chapter 3.
      2.   A person may not rent a motor vehicle to another person unless the
person who will be the driver is licensed in this State, or in the case of a
nonresident, licensed under the laws of the state or country of his residence.
         a.   A person may not rent a motor vehicle to another person until he
has inspected the license certificate of the person who will be the driver and
verified the signature on the license certificate by comparison with the
signature of the person who will be the driver written in his presence.
      3.   A person renting a motor vehicle to another shall keep a record of
the:
         a.   Registration number of the rented motor vehicle;
         b.   Name and address of the person to whom the motor vehicle is
rented;
         c.   Number of the license certificate of the renter; and
         d.   Date and place the license certificate was issued.
      4.   The record under subsection A3 of this section is open to inspection
by any peace officer or officer or employee of the Utah Driver License
Division.
      5.   A person may not employ a person to drive a motor vehicle who is not
licensed as required under Utah Code Annotated, title 53, chapter 3.
      6.   As used in this section:
DRIVE: Means to operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle upon a
highway.
DRIVER: Means an individual who drives, or is in actual physical control of a
motor vehicle in any location open to the general public for purposes of
vehicular traffic.
LICENSE: Means the privilege to drive a motor vehicle.
LICENSE CERTIFICATE: Means the evidence of the privilege issued under this
chapter to drive a motor vehicle.
         a.   "License certificate" evidence includes:
            (1)   A regular license certificate;
            (2)   A limited-term license certificate;
            (3)   A driving privilege card;
            (4)   A CDL license certificate;
            (5)   A limited-term CDL license certificate;
            (6)   A temporary regular license certificate;
            (7)   A temporary limited-term license certificate; and
            (8)   An electronic license certificate created under Utah Code
Annotated, section 53-3-235.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Means a self-propelled vehicle intended primarily for use and
operation on the highways.
         a.   "Motor vehicle" does not include:
            (1)   An off-highway vehicle; or
            (2)   A motor assisted scooter as defined in Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-6a-102.
      7.   A person who violates this section is guilty of an infraction. (Ord.
19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-28: DRIVING ON DENIED, SUSPENDED, DISQUALIFIED, OR REVOKED LICENSE:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   A person whose driving privilege has been denied, suspended,
disqualified, or revoked under Utah Code Annotated, title 53, chapter 3 or
under the laws of the state in which the person's driving privilege was granted
and who drives any motor vehicle upon the highways of this State while that
driving privilege is denied, suspended, disqualified, or revoked shall be
punished as provided in this section.
      2.   A person convicted of a violation of subsection A1 of this section,
other than a violation specified in subsection A3 of this section, is guilty of
a Class C misdemeanor.
      3.   A person is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor if the person's
conviction under subsection A1 of this section is based on the person driving a
motor vehicle while the person's driving privilege is suspended, disqualified,
or revoked for:
         a.   A refusal to submit to a chemical test under Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-6a-520;
         b.   A violation of Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-502;
         c.   A violation of a local ordinance that complies with the
requirements of Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-510;
         d.   A violation of Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-517;
         e.   A violation of Utah Code Annotated, section 76-5-207;
         f.   A criminal action that the person pled guilty to as a result of a
plea bargain after having been originally charged with violating one or more of
the sections or ordinances under this subsection A3;
         g.   A revocation or suspension which has been extended under Utah
Code Annotated, section 53-3-220(2);
         h.   Where disqualification is the result of driving a commercial
motor vehicle while the person's CDL is disqualified, suspended, canceled, or
revoked under Utah Code Annotated, section 53-3-414(1); or
         i.   A violation of Utah Code Annotated, section 41-6a-530.
      4.   A person is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor if the person's
conviction under subsection A1 of this section is based on the person driving a
motor vehicle while the person's driving privilege is suspended, disqualified,
or revoked by any state, the United States, or any district, possession, or
territory of the United States for violations corresponding to the violations
listed in subsection A3 of this section.
      5.   A fine imposed under subsection A3 of this section shall be at least
the maximum fine for a Class C misdemeanor under Utah Code Annotated, section
76-3-301.
      6.   As used in this section:
CDL: Means a commercial driver license:
         a.   Issued substantially in accordance with the requirements of title
XII, pub. L. 99-570, the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986, and in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated, title 53, chapter 3, part 4, Uniform
Commercial Driver License Act, which authorizes the holder to drive a class of
commercial motor vehicle; and
         b.   That was obtained by providing evidence of lawful presence in the
United States with one of the document requirements described under Utah Code
Annotated, section 53-3-410(1)(i)(i).
CANCELED: Means the termination by the Utah Driver License Division of a
license issued through error or fraud or for which consent under Utah Code
Annotated, section 53-3-211 has been withdrawn.
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE: Means a motor vehicle or combination of motor
vehicles designed or used to transport passengers or property if the motor
vehicle:
         a.   Has a gross vehicle weight rating of twenty six thousand one
(26,001) or more pounds or a lesser rating as determined by Federal regulation;
         b.   Is designed to transport sixteen (16) or more passengers,
including the driver; or
         c.   Is transporting hazardous materials and is required to be
placarded in accordance with 49 CFR part 172, subpart F.
CONVICTED OR CONVICTION: Means any of the following:
         a.   An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an administrative proceeding;
         b.   An unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure
a person's appearance in court;
         c.   A plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court;
         d.   The payment of a fine or court costs; or
         e.   Violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless of
whether the penalty is rebated, suspended, or probated.
DENIED: Means the withdrawal of a driving privilege by the Utah Driver License
Division.
DISQUALIFIED OR DISQUALIFICATION: Means either:
         a.   The suspension, revocation, cancellation, denial, or any other
withdrawal by a state of a person's privileges to drive a commercial motor
vehicle;
         b.   A determination by the Federal Highway Administration, under 49
CFR part 386, that a person is no longer qualified to drive a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 CFR part 391; or
         c.   The loss of qualification that automatically follows conviction
of an offense listed under 49 CFR part 383.51.
DRIVE: Means to operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle upon a
highway.
   HIGHWAY: Means the entire width between property lines of every way or place
of any nature when any part of it is open to the use of the public, as a matter
of right, for traffic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Means a self-propelled vehicle intended primarily for use and
operation on the highways.
         a.   "Motor vehicle" does not include:
            (1)   An off-highway vehicle; or
            (2)   A motor assisted scooter as defined in Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-6a-102.
REVOCATION OR REVOKED: Means the termination by action of the Utah Driver
License Division of a licensee's privilege to drive a motor vehicle.
SUSPENDED OR SUSPENSION: Means the temporary withdrawal by action of the Utah
Driver License Division of a licensee's privilege to drive a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-29: OPERATING A VEHICLE WITHOUT INSURANCE:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Except as provided under subsection A2 of this section, an owner of
a motor vehicle on which owner's or operator's security is required under Utah
Code Annotated, section 41-12a-301, who operates the owner's vehicle or permits
it to be operated on a highway in this State without owner's security being in
effect is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, and the fine shall not be less than:
         a.   Four hundred dollars ($400.00) for a first offense; and
         b.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a second and subsequent
offense within three (3) years of a previous conviction or bail forfeiture.
      2.   A court may waive up to three hundred dollars ($300.00) of the fine
charged to the owner of a motor vehicle under subsection A1a of this section if
the owner demonstrates that owner's or operator's security required under Utah
Code Annotated, section 41-12a-301 was obtained subsequent to the violation but
before sentencing.
      3.   Except as provided under subsection A4 of this section, any other
person who operates a motor vehicle upon a highway in Utah with the knowledge
that the owner does not have owner's security in effect for the motor vehicle
is also guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, and the fine shall not be less than:
         a.   Four hundred dollars ($400.00) for a first offense; and
         b.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a second and subsequent
offense within three (3) years of a previous conviction or bail forfeiture.
      4.   A person that has in effect owner's security on a Utah- registered
motor vehicle or its equivalent that covers the operation, by the person, of
the motor vehicle in question is exempt from subsection A3 of this section.
      5.   As used in this section:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Means every self-propelled vehicle that is designed for use upon
a highway, including trailers and semitrailers designed for use with other
motorized vehicles.
         a.   "Motor vehicle" does not include traction engines, road rollers,
farm tractors, tractor cranes, power shovels, and well drillers, and every
vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires but
not operated upon rails.
OPERATOR: Means every person who is in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle.
OWNER: Means:
         a.   A person who holds legal title to a motor vehicle;
         b.   A lessee in possession;
         c.   A conditional vendee or lessee if a motor vehicle is the subject
of a conditional sale or lease with the right of purchase upon performance of
the conditions stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of
possession in the conditional vendee or lessee; or
         d.   A mortgagor if a motor vehicle is the subject of a mortgage with
the mortgagor entitled to possession.
OWNER'S OR OPERATOR'S SECURITY, OWNER'S SECURITY, OR OPERATOR'S SECURITY: Means
any of the following:
         a.   An insurance policy or combination of policies conforming to Utah
Code Annotated, section 31A-22-302, which is issued by an insurer authorized to
do business in Utah;
         b.   An insurance policy or combination of policies issued or renewed
prior to January 1, 2009 that:
            (1)   Conformed to the minimum coverage limits of Utah Code
Annotated, section 31A-22-304 prior to January 1, 2009; and
            (2)   Conform to the current requirements other than the minimum
coverage limits of policies issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated,
section 31A-22-302;
         c.   A surety bond issued by an insurer authorized to do a surety
business in Utah in which the surety is subject to the minimum coverage limits
and other requirements of policies conforming to Utah Code Annotated, section
31A-22-302, which names the department as a creditor under the bond for the use
of persons entitled to the proceeds of the bond;
         d.   A deposit with the State Treasurer of cash or securities
complying with Utah Code Annotated, section 41-12a-406;
         e.   Maintaining a certificate of self-funded coverage under Utah Code
Annotated, section 41-12a-407; or
         f.   A policy conforming to Utah Code Annotated, section 31A-22-302
issued by the Risk Management Fund created under Utah Code Annotated, section
63A-4-201. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-30: OPERATING A VEHICLE WITHOUT PROOF OF INSURANCE:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   A person operating a motor vehicle shall:
         a.   Have in the person's immediate possession evidence of owner's or
operator's security for the motor vehicle the person is operating; and
         b.   Display it upon demand of a peace officer.
      2.   A person is exempt from the requirements of subsection A1 of this
section if the person is operating:
         a.   A government-owned or leased motor vehicle; or
         b.   An employer-owned or leased motor vehicle and is driving it with
the employer's permission.
      3.   A person operating a vehicle that is owned by a rental company, as
defined in Utah Code Annotated, section 31A-22-311, may comply with subsection
A1 of this section by having in the person's immediate possession, or
displaying, the rental vehicle's rental agreement, as defined in Utah Code
Annotated, section 31A-22-311.
      4.   Evidence of owner's or operator's security includes any one of the
following:
         a.   A copy of the operator's valid:
            (1)   Insurance policy;
            (2)   Insurance policy declaration page;
            (3)   Binder notice;
            (4)   Renewal notice; or
            (5)   Card issued by an insurance company as evidence of insurance;
         b.   A certificate of insurance issued under Utah Code Annotated,
section 41-12a-402;
         c.   A certified copy of a surety bond issued under Utah Code
Annotated, section 41-12a-405;
         d.   A certificate of the State Treasurer issued under Utah Code
Annotated, section 41-12a-406;
         e.   A certificate of self-funded coverage issued under Utah Code
Annotated, section 41-12a-407; or
         f.   Information that the vehicle or driver is insured from the
Uninsured Motorist Identification Database Program created under Utah Code
Annotated, title 41, chapter 12a, part 8, Uninsured Motorist Identification
Database Program.
      5.   A card issued by an insurance company as evidence of owner's or
operator's security under subsection A4a(5) of this section on or after July 1,
2014, may not display the owner's or operator's address on the card.
      6.   A person may provide to a peace officer evidence of owner's or
operator's security described in subsection A4 of this section in:
         a.   A hard copy format; or
         b.   An electronic format using a mobile electronic device.
      7.   If a person provides evidence of owner's or operator's security in
an electronic format using a mobile electronic device under subsection A6b of
this section, the peace officer viewing the owner's or operator's security on
the mobile electronic device may not view any other content on the mobile
electronic device.
         a.   Notwithstanding any other provision under this section, a peace
officer is not subject to civil liability or criminal penalties under this
section if the peace officer inadvertently views content other than the
evidence of owner's or operator's security on the mobile electronic device.
      8.   Evidence of owner's or operator's security from the Uninsured
Motorist Identification Database Program described under subsection A4f of this
section supersedes any evidence of owner's or operator's security described
under subsection A4a(4) or A4a(5) of this section.
      9.   A peace officer may not cite or arrest a person for a violation of
subsection A1, A2, or A3 of this section if the Uninsured Motorist
Identification Database Program created under Utah Code Annotated, title 41,
chapter 12a, part 8, Uninsured Motorist Identification Database Program,
information indicates that the vehicle or driver is insured.
      10.   It is an affirmative defense to a charge or in an administrative
action under this section that the person had owner's or operator's security in
effect for the vehicle the person was operating at the time of the person's
citation or arrest.
      11.   The following are considered proof of owner's or operator's
security for purposes of subsection A10 of this section:
         a.   Evidence defined in subsection A4 of this section;
         b.   A written statement from an insurance producer or company
verifying that the person had the required motor vehicle insurance coverage on
the date specified; or
         c.   A written statement from an insurance producer or company, or
provision in an insurance policy, indicating that the policy provides coverage
for a newly purchased car and the coverage extended to the date specified.
      12.   The court considering a citation issued under this section shall
allow the evidence or a written statement under subsection A11 of this section
and a copy of the citation to be electronically submitted or mailed to the
Clerk of the Court to satisfy subsection A10 of this section.
      13.   A person who is convicted of violating subsection A1 of this
section:
         a.   Is guilty of an infraction for a first offense and subject to a
fine of not less than four hundred dollars ($400.00); and
         b.   Is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor for each offense subsequent to
the first offense that is committed within three (3) years after the day on
which the person commits the first offense and subject to a fine of not less
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      14.   A court may waive up to three hundred dollars ($300.00) of a fine
charged under subsection A13 of this section if the person demonstrates that
the owner's or operator's security required under Utah Code Annotated, section
41-12a-301 was obtained after the violation but before sentencing.
      15.   Upon receiving notification from a court of a conviction for a
violation of this section, the Utah Department of Public Safety:
         a.   Shall suspend the person's driver license; and
         b.   May not renew the person's driver license or issue a driver
license to the person until the person gives the Utah Department of Public
Safety proof of owner's or operator's security.
            (1)   This proof of owner's or operator's security shall be given
by any of the ways required under Utah Code Annotated, section 41-12a-401.
            (2)   This proof of owner's or operator's security shall be
maintained with the Utah Department of Public Safety for a three-year period.
            (3)   An insurer that provides a certificate of insurance as
provided under Utah Code Annotated, section 41-12a-402 or 41-12a-403 may not
terminate the insurance policy unless notice of termination is filed with the
Utah Department of Public Safety no later than ten (10) days after termination
as required under Utah Code Annotated, section 41-12a-404.
            (4)   If a person who has canceled the certificate of insurance
applies for a license within three (3) years from the date proof of owner's or
operator's security was originally required, the Utah Department of Public
Safety shall refuse the application unless the person reestablishes proof of
owner's or operator's security and maintains the proof for the remainder of the
three-year period.
      16.   As used in this section:
LICENSE: Means the privilege to drive a motor vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Means every self-propelled vehicle that is designed for use upon
a highway, including trailers and semitrailers designed for use with other
motorized vehicles.
         a.   "Motor vehicle" does not include traction engines, road rollers,
farm tractors, tractor cranes, power shovels, and well drillers, and every
vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires but
not operated upon rails.
OPERATOR: Means every person who is in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle.
OWNER: Means:
         a.   A person who holds legal title to a motor vehicle;
         b.   A lessee in possession;
         c.   A conditional vendee or lessee if a motor vehicle is the subject
of a conditional sale or lease with the right of purchase upon performance of
the conditions stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of
possession in the conditional vendee or lessee; or
         d.   A mortgagor if a motor vehicle is the subject of a mortgage with
the mortgagor entitled to possession.
OWNER'S OR OPERATOR'S SECURITY, OWNER'S SECURITY, OR OPERATOR'S SECURITY: Means
any of the following:
         a.   An insurance policy or combination of policies conforming to Utah
Code Annotated, section 31A-22-302, which is issued by an insurer authorized to
do business in Utah;
         b.   An insurance policy or combination of policies issued or renewed
prior to January 1, 2009 that:
            (1)   Conformed to the minimum coverage limits of Utah Code
Annotated, section 31A-22-304 prior to January 1, 2009; and
            (2)   Conform to the current requirements other than the minimum
coverage limits of policies issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated,
section 31A-22-302;
         c.   A surety bond issued by an insurer authorized to do a surety
business in Utah in which the surety is subject to the minimum coverage limits
and other requirements of policies conforming to Utah Code Annotated, section
31A-22-302, which names the department as a creditor under the bond for the use
of persons entitled to the proceeds of the bond;
         d.   A deposit with the State Treasurer of cash or securities
complying with Utah Code Annotated, section 41-12a-406;
         e.   Maintaining a certificate of self-funded coverage under Utah Code
Annotated, section 41-12a-407; or
         f.   A policy conforming to Utah Code Annotated, section 31A-22-302
issued by the Risk Management Fund created under Utah Code Annotated, section
63A-4-201. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-31: FAILURE TO OBEY WATERWAY SPEED AND PROXIMITY RULES:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   The operator of any vessel may not exceed a wakeless speed when
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of:
         a.   Another vessel;
         b.   A person in or floating on the water;
         c.   A water skier being towed by another boat;
         d.   A water skier that had been towed behind the operator's vessel
unless the skier is still surfing or riding in an upright stance on the wake
created by the vessel;
         e.   A water skier that had been towed behind another vessel and the
skier is still surfing or riding in an upright stance on the wake created by
the other vessel;
         f.   A shore fisherman;
         g.   A launching ramp;
         h.   A dock; or
         i.   A designated swimming area.
      2.   As used in this section:
OPERATOR: Means the person who is in control of a vessel while it is in use.
VESSEL: Means every type of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
WAKELESS SPEED: Means an operating speed at which the vessel does not create or
make a wake or white water trailing the vessel.
         a.   This speed is not in excess of five (5) miles per hour.
      3.   A person who violates this section is guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-32: WATERWAY SPEED WHEN PASSENGER RIDING ON CERTAIN MOTORBOAT AREAS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2 of this section, the operator of
a motorboat that is less than sixty five feet (65') in length may not exceed a
wakeless speed while any person is riding upon the bow decking, gunwales,
transom, seatbacks, or motor cover.
      2.   Subsection A1 of this section does not apply if the motorboat is:
         a.   Between sixteen feet (16') and sixty five feet (65') in length;
and
         b.   The motorboat is equipped with adequate rails or other safeguards
to prevent a person from falling overboard.
      3.   As used in this section:
MOTORBOAT: Means any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not the
machinery is the principal source of propulsion.
OPERATOR: Means the person who is in control of a motorboat while it is in use.
WAKELESS SPEED: Means an operating speed at which the vessel does not create or
make a wake or white water trailing the vessel.
         a.   This speed is not in excess of five (5) miles per hour.
      4.   A person who violates this section is guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-33: PASSENGER RIDING ON MOTORBOAT LACKING PASSENGER- DESIGNED SEATING:
   A.   If a person is riding upon the bow decking of a motorboat that does not
have designed seating for passengers, the person shall straddle one of the
upright supports of the bow rail and may not block the vision of the operator.
   B.   As used in this section:
MOTORBOAT: Means any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not the
machinery is the principal source of propulsion.
OPERATOR: Means the person who is in control of a motorboat while it is in use.
   C.   A person who violates this section is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-34: DISPLAYING WATERWAY-NAVIGATION LIGHTS BETWEEN SUNSET AND SUNRISE:
   A.   The operator of a vessel operated between sunset and sunrise shall
display lighted navigation lights approved by the Utah Division of Parks and
Recreation.
   B.   As used in this section:
OPERATE: Means to navigate, control, or otherwise use a vessel.
OPERATOR: Means the person who is in control of a vessel while it is in use.
VESSEL: Means every type of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
   C.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-2019)
5-1-35: FAILURE TO DISPLAY MOTORBOAT OR SAILBOAT BOW NUMBERS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Every motorboat and sailboat on the waters of this State shall be
numbered.
      2.   No person shall operate or give permission for the operation of any
motorboat or sailboat on the waters of this State unless the motorboat or
sailboat is numbered in accordance with:
         a.   Utah Code Annotated, title 73, chapter 18;
         b.   Applicable Federal law; or
         c.   A Federally-approved numbering system of another state, if the
owner is a resident of that state and his motorboat or sailboat has not been in
this State in excess of sixty (60) days for the calendar year.
      3.   The number assigned to a motorboat or sailboat in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated, title 73, chapter 18, applicable Federal law, or a
Federally-approved numbering system of another state shall be displayed on each
side of the bow of the motorboat or sailboat.
         a.   This subsection A3 does not apply to any vessel which has a valid
marine document issued by the United States Coast Guard.
      4.   As used in this section:
MOTORBOAT: Means any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not the
machinery is the principal source of propulsion.
OPERATE: Means to navigate, control, or otherwise use a motorboat or sailboat.
OWNER: Means a person, other than a lien holder, holding a proprietary interest
in or the title to a vessel.
         a.   "Owner" includes a person entitled to the use or possession of a
vessel subject to an interest by another person, reserved or created by
agreement and securing payment or performance of an obligation.
         b.   "Owner" does not include a lessee under a lease not intended as
security.
SAILBOAT: Means any vessel having one or more sails and propelled by wind.
VESSEL: Means every type of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
WATERS OF THIS STATE: Means any waters within the territorial limits of this
State.
      5.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-
2019)
5-1-36: EXPIRED, IMPROPER, OR NO CURRENT REGISTRATION FOR MOTORBOAT OR
SAILBOAT:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Except as provided by Utah Code Annotated, section 73-18-9, the
owner of each motorboat and sailboat on the waters of this State shall register
it with the Utah Division of Parks and Recreation as provided in Utah Code
Annotated, title 73, chapter 18.
      2.   A person may not place, give permission for the placement of,
operate, or give permission for the operation of a motorboat or sailboat on the
waters of this State, unless the motorboat or sailboat is registered as
provided in Utah Code Annotated, title 73, chapter 18.
      3.   The owner of a motorboat or sailboat required to be registered shall
file an application for registration with the Utah Division of Parks and
Recreation on forms approved by the division.
         a.   The owner of the motorboat or sailboat shall sign the application
and pay the fee set by the Utah Board of Parks and Recreation in accordance
with Utah Code Annotated, section 63J-1-504.
         b.   Before receiving a registration card and registration decals, the
applicant shall provide the Utah Division of Parks and Recreation with a
certificate from the County Assessor of the county in which the motorboat or
sailboat has situs for taxation, stating that:
            (1)   The Property Tax on the motorboat or sailboat for the current
year has been paid;
            (2)   In the County Assessor's opinion, the Property Tax is a lien
on real property sufficient to secure the payment of the Property Tax; or
            (3)   The motorboat or sailboat is exempt by law from payment of
Property Tax for the current year.
         c.   If the Utah Board of Parks and Recreation modifies the fee under
subsection A3a of this section, the modification shall take effect on the first
day of the calendar quarter after ninety (90) days from the day on which the
board provides the State Tax Commission:
            (1)   Notice from the board stating that the board will modify the
fee; and
            (2)   A copy of the fee modification.
      4.   The nonresident owner of any motorboat or sailboat already covered
by a valid number that has been assigned to it according to Federal law or a
Federally approved numbering system of the owner's resident state is exempt
from registration while operating the motorboat or sailboat on the waters of
this State unless the owner is operating in excess of the reciprocity period
provided for in Utah Code Annotated, section 73-18-9(1).
      5.   If the ownership of a motorboat or sailboat changes, the new owner
shall file a new application form and fee with the Utah Division of Parks and
Recreation, and the division shall issue a new registration card and
registration decals in the same manner as provided for in subsection A3 of this
section.
         a.   The Utah Division of Parks and Recreation shall reassign the
current number assigned to the motorboat or sailboat to the new owner to
display on the motorboat or sailboat.
      6.   Each registration, registration card, and decal issued under Utah
Code Annotated, title 73, chapter 18 shall continue in effect for twelve (12)
months, beginning with the first day of the calendar month of registration.
         a.   A registration may be renewed by the owner in the same manner
provided for in the initial application.
         b.   The Utah Division of Parks and Recreation shall reassign the
current number assigned to the motorboat or sailboat when the registration is
renewed.
      7.   Each registration, registration card, and registration decal expires
the last day of the month in the year following the calendar month of
registration.
         a.   If the last day of the registration period falls on a day in
which the appropriate State or County offices are not open for business, the
registration of the motorboat or sailboat is extended to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight of the next business day.
      8.   The Utah Division of Parks and Recreation may receive applications
for registration renewal and issue new registration cards at any time before
the expiration of the registration, subject to the availability of renewal
materials.
         a.   The new registration shall retain the same expiration month as
recorded on the original registration even if the registration has expired.
         b.   The year of registration shall be changed to reflect the renewed
registration period.
         c.   If the registration renewal application is an application
generated by the Utah Division of Parks and Recreation through its automated
system, the owner is not required to surrender the last registration card or
duplicate.
      9.   A registered owner shall notify the Utah Division of Parks and
Recreation within fifteen (15) days if the owner's address changes from the
address appearing on the registration card and shall, as a part of this
notification, furnish the division with the owner's new address.
      10.   A motorboat or sailboat registration and number are invalid if
obtained by knowingly falsifying an application for registration.
      11.   As used in this section:
MOTORBOAT: Means any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not the
machinery is the principal source of propulsion.
OPERATE: Means to navigate, control, or otherwise use a motorboat or sailboat.
OWNER: Means a person, other than a lien holder, holding a proprietary interest
in or the title to a vessel.
         a.   "Owner" includes a person entitled to the use or possession of a
vessel subject to an interest by another person, reserved or created by
agreement and securing payment or performance of an obligation.
         b.   "Owner" does not include a lessee under a lease not intended as
security.
SAILBOAT: Means any vessel having one or more sails and propelled by wind.
VESSEL: Means every type of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
WATERS OF THIS STATE: Means any waters within the territorial limits of this
State.
      12.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-
2019)
5-1-37: MOTORBOAT OR SAILBOAT REGISTRATION NUMBER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   The assigned motorboat or sailboat registration number shall:
         a.   Be painted or permanently attached to each side of the forward
half of the motorboat or sailboat;
         b.   Consist of plain vertical block characters not less than three
inches (3") in height;
         c.   Contrast with the color of the background and be distinctly
visible and legible;
         d.   Have spaces or hyphens equal to the width of a letter between the
letter and numeral groupings; and
         e.   Read from left to right.
      2.   A motorboat or sailboat with a valid marine document issued by the
United States Coast Guard is exempt from the number display requirements of
subsection A1 of this section.
      3.   A number other than the number assigned to a motorboat or sailboat
or a number for a motorboat or sailboat granted reciprocity under Utah Code
Annotated, title 73, chapter 18 may not be painted, attached, or otherwise
displayed on either side of the bow of a motorboat or sailboat.
      4.   As used in this section:
MOTORBOAT: Means any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not the
machinery is the principal source of propulsion.
SAILBOAT: Means any vessel having one or more sails and propelled by wind.
      5.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-
2019)
5-1-38: SAFETY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED TO BE ON BOARD WATER VESSELS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   Except as provided in subsections A3 and A4 of this section, each
vessel shall have, for each person on board, one wearable personal flotation
device that is approved for the type of use by the Commandant of the United
States Coast Guard.
      2.   Each personal flotation device shall be:
         a.   In serviceable condition;
         b.   Legally marked with the United States Coast Guard approval
number; and
         c.   Of an appropriate size for the person for whom it is intended.
      3.   Sailboards and racing shells are exempt from the provisions of
subsections A1 and A6 of this section.
      4.   The Utah Board of Parks and Recreation may exempt certain types of
vessels from the provisions of subsection A1 of this section under certain
conditions or upon certain waters.
      5.   The Utah Board of Parks and Recreation may require by rule for
personal flotation devices to be worn:
         a.   While a person is on board a certain type of vessel;
         b.   By a person under a certain age; or
         c.   On certain waters of the State.
      6.   For vessels sixteen feet (16') or more in length, there shall also
be on board one throwable personal flotation device which is approved for this
use by the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard.
      7.   If a vessel is not entirely open and it carries or uses any
flammable or toxic fluid in any enclosure for any purpose, the vessel shall be
equipped with an efficient natural or mechanical ventilation system that is
capable of removing resulting gases before and during the time the vessel is
occupied by any person.
      8.   Each vessel shall have fire extinguishing equipment on board.
      9.   Any inboard gasoline engine shall be equipped with a carburetor
backfire flame control device.
      10.   The Utah Board of Parks and Recreation may:
         a.   Require additional safety equipment by rule; and
         b.   Adopt rules conforming with the requirements of this section
which govern specifications for and the use of safety equipment.
      11.   A person may not operate or give permission for the operation of a
vessel that is not equipped as required by Utah Code Annotated, section 73-18-
8 or rules promulgated under Utah Code Annotated, section 73-18-8.
      12.   As used in this section:
RACING SHELL: Means a long, narrow watercraft:
         a.   Outfitted with long oars and sliding seats; and
         b.   Specifically designed for racing or exercise.
VESSEL: Means every type of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
WATERS OF THIS STATE: Means any waters within the territorial limits of this
State.
      13.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 19-12, 7-30-
2019)
CHAPTER 2
SPEED LIMITS
SECTION:
5-2-1: County Roads
5-2-1-1: County Roads B-4, B-10, B-13, B-15
5-2-1-2: County Roads B-9, B-12, B-18, B-20, B-22
5-2-2: Birch Creek Road
5-2-3: Browns Park Road
5-2-4: Jarvie Ranch Road
5-2-1: COUNTY ROADS:
5-2-1-1: COUNTY ROADS B-4, B-10, B-13, B-15:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as the COUNTY ROAD SPEED LIMIT
ORDINANCE FOR COUNTY ROADS B-4, B-10, B-13 AND B-15. (Ord. 04-17, 6-15-2004)
   B.   Statutory Authority: The authority for the County Commission to
establish a speed limit for a County road is derived from Utah Code Annotated
section 41-6a-603, as amended. (Ord. 04-17, 6-15-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Purpose Of Provisions: This section is enacted to establish a speed
limit for County roads B-4, B-10, B-13 and B-15.
   D.   Description Of County Roads B-4, B-10, B-13 And B-15 Speed Limit Zone:
This section shall apply to the following County roads:
B-4 - Bennion Lane Road
B-10 - Flaming Gorge Lake Meadows Road
B-13 - Airport Road
B-15 - Green Acres/Beckstead Road
   E.   Imposition Of Speed Limit: It is hereby established that the speed
limit for motor vehicles on the above listed County roads shall be the
reasonable and prudent speed under existing conditions, not to exceed thirty
(30) miles per hour. (Ord. 04-17, 6-15-2004)
   F.   Penalty: Violations of this section shall be an infraction and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 04-17, 6-15-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-1-2: COUNTY ROADS B-9, B-12, B-18, B-20, B-22:
   A.   Applicability: This section shall apply to the following County roads:
      1.   B-9: Bennion Lane Road;
      2.   B-12: Ruble Lane and Ylincheta Lane;
      3.   B-18: Airport Road;
      4.   B-20: Bear Paw Lane;
      5.   B-22: Browns Park Road.
   B.   Speed Limits: The speed limit for all motor vehicles on the roads
listed in subsection A of this section shall be the reasonable and prudent
speed, under existing conditions, not to exceed those speeds listed below:
      1.   B-9: Bennion Lane Road: Thirty five (35) miles per hour on the paved
portions and twenty five (25) miles per hour on the gravel portions.
      2.   B-12: Ruble Lane and Ylincheta Lane: Thirty (30) miles per hour.
      3.   B-18: Airport Road: Thirty five (35) miles per hour.
      4.   B-20: Bear Paw Lane: Thirty (30) miles per hour.
      5.   B-22: Browns Park Road: Forty (40) miles per hour on the paved
portions and twenty five (25) miles per hour on the gravel portions.
   C.   Penalty: Violations of this section shall be an infraction, punishable
by up to one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00). (Ord. 16-13, 12-6-2016)
5-2-2: BIRCH CREEK ROAD:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as the BIRCH CREEK ROAD SPEED LIMIT
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 00-20, 8-22-2000)
   B.   Statutory Authority: The authority for the County Commission to
establish a speed limit for a County road is derived from Utah Code Annotated
section 41-6a-603, as amended. (Ord. 00-20, 8-22-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Purpose Of Provisions: This section is enacted to establish a speed
limit on the Birch Creek Road.
   D.   Description Of Birch Creek Road Speed Limit Zone: This section shall
apply to the Birch Creek Road in the County, from the Utah/Wyoming State line
to the boundary of the Ashley National Forest.
   E.   Imposition Of Speed Limit: It is hereby established the speed limit for
motor vehicles on the Birch Creek Road shall be the reasonable and prudent
speed under existing conditions, not to exceed thirty five (35) miles per hour.
(Ord. 00-20, 8-22-2000)
   F.   Penalty: Violations of this section shall be an infraction and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 00-20, 8-22-2000; amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-3: BROWNS PARK ROAD:
   A.   Speed Limit Established: It is hereby established that the speed limit
for motor vehicles on the Browns Park Road shall be the reasonable and prudent
speed under existing conditions, not to exceed twenty five (25) miles per hour
on the unpaved surface and forty (40) miles per hour on the paved surface.
(Ord. 09-16, 8-18-2009)
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be an infraction and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 09-16, 8-18-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
5-2-4: JARVIE RANCH ROAD:
The speed limit on Jarvie Ranch Road (aka Indian Crossing) from LONG-109.17728
LAT-40.90003 to LONG-109.17967 LAT-40.89959 shall be twenty (20) miles per
hour. (Ord. 12-19, 10-30-2012; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Adoption Of State Off Highway Vehicle Code, Rules And Regulations
5-3-2: Amendments
5-3-3: Citation
5-3-1: ADOPTION OF STATE OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE CODE, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Rules and Regulations contained in Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapter
22, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, are hereby adopted as the
Off Highway Vehicle Code, Rules and Regulations of the County, and by this
reference are made a part of this Code to the same extent and effect as though
said title, chapters, sections and rules were set forth herein in full. Any
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapter 22, providing a penalty
greater than a Class B misdemeanor, or not relating to criminal or
administrative sanctions, are not incorporated as part of this chapter. (Ord.
06-09, 5-16-2006)
5-3-2: AMENDMENTS:
In order to assure continuing uniformity between the State Off Highway Vehicles
Rules and Regulations, and the County Off Highway Vehicle Rules and
Regulations, as required by Utah Code Annotated section 41-22-18, this chapter
will include any and all periodic amendments to the State Rules and
Regulations, Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapter 22, after the effective date
hereof, made by the State legislature or by the State Department of Natural
Resources. (Ord. 06-09, 5-16-2006)
5-3-3: CITATION:
This chapter shall be designated as a County ordinance by substituting this
chapter for Utah Code Annotated title 41, followed by the appropriate chapter
and section numbers of Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 06-09, 5-16-2006)
CHAPTER 4
WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON COUNTY ROADS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose
5-4-2: Weight Restrictions Imposed
5-4-3: Signs Required
5-4-4: Exemptions Require Permit
5-4-5: Penalty
5-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow the County Commissioners to impose
temporary weight limitations on roads within their jurisdiction so as to reduce
the damage and destruction caused to the County roads during the spring months.
(Ord. 83-3, 6-15-1983)
5-4-2: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED:
The County Commissioners shall impose, at their absolute discretion,
restrictions as to the weight of vehicles traveling upon roads within the
jurisdiction of the County Commission. The restrictions imposed shall not
exceed a total period of ninety (90) days in any one (1) calendar year. The
weight restrictions may vary depending upon the road, the particular climatic
conditions in the area and the extent and necessity of travel in the area.
(Ord. 83-3, 6-15-1983)
5-4-3: SIGNS REQUIRED:
The County Commissioners shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained
signs designating the vehicular weight restrictions imposed. Said signs shall
be erected at each end of the portion of road affected. (Ord. 83-3, 6-15-1983)
5-4-4: EXEMPTIONS REQUIRE PERMIT:
Any person, business or entity desiring an exemption from the vehicular weight
restrictions imposed by the County Commissioners may apply for a permit from
the County Commissioners exempting that party from the weight limitations
imposed. The County Commissioners shall grant such a permit upon showing, by
the party requesting the permit, that unnecessary and undue hardship will be
caused to the party by the weight restrictions. The County Commissioners may
impose any limitations, conditions and restrictions on the permits issued
hereunder that they deem proper in their absolute discretion. (Ord. 83-3, 6-15-
1983)
5-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, or any weight restrictions
imposed by the County Commissioners pursuant to this chapter, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 83-3, 6-15-1983; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PARKS AND FACILITIES USAGE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Parks And Grounds
6-1-2: Rodeo Grounds
6-1-3: Buildings And Facilities; Use And Scheduling
6-1-4: Rules For Use Of Buildings, Meeting Areas And Facilities
6-1-5: Fee Schedule
6-1-1: PARKS AND GROUNDS:
   A.   Exclusive Use; Permit Required; Commercial Sales Prohibited:
      1.   Any person, group or organization desiring to use a park, or any
portion thereof, on an exclusive basis, or any person, group or any
organization desiring to use the park equipment for a public gathering to the
exclusion of other persons or for the purpose of holding meetings, either
public or private in nature, shall do so only after obtaining a reservation
permit from the authorized agency and, when required, upon payment of an
appropriate fee for the privilege of reserving the area for a given period of
time.
      2.   It is unlawful to sell anything in a County park, County building or
County facilities, or to engage in any commercial activity in a County park,
whether for profit or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the
County Commission.
      3.   Any violation of this provision shall be punished as a Class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person or persons to scratch, cut, injure or
deface any of the buildings, fences, structures, or any other improvement, or
to cut or injure flowers, flower beds, trees or shrubs within the parks, or for
the owner of any dog to allow the same to run at large within the parks and
grounds of the County.
      2.   Any violation of this provision shall be punished as a Class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   C.   Parking Regulations:
      1.   It is unlawful to park any vehicles within the public property in
such a way as to block the roads provided for public traffic; or where public
parking is provided to park other than in the public parking areas.
      2.   Any violation of this provision shall be punished as an infraction
and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   D.   Possession Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   It is unlawful to possess or consume beer, liquor or any other
alcoholic beverage within a County park or County building or facility, unless
duly licensed by the County to possess, consume or sell any alcoholic beverage
at that specific event. An application and law enforcement background check is
required prior to approval by the commission.
      2.   Any violation of this provision shall be punished as a Class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   E.   Park Curfew:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to be in a County park between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M.,
unless prior written approval is properly obtained from the authorized agent
managing the County parks and facilities.
      2.   Any violation of this provision shall be punished as a Class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   F.   Overnight Camping:
      1.   No overnight camping or overnight stays will be allowed on County
lands, in County parks, buildings or facilities, unless approved by the
commission or unless the County develops an area especially for camping or
overnight stays.
      2.   Any violation of this provision shall be punished as a Class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 07-10, 5-1-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
6-1-2: RODEO GROUNDS:
The provisions of section
6-1-1 of this chapter dealing with parks and grounds shall apply to the rodeo
arena and facilities, except as otherwise specifically provided herein. (Ord.
07-10, 5-1-2007)
6-1-3: BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES; USE AND SCHEDULING:
   A.   Scheduling: Proper scheduling is essential to maintain order and
control and to avoid conflicting use. The first priority for all facilities and
buildings and rooms is for use by the County and its departments and officials
for the conduct of County business. At times when the facilities are not needed
for County business, facilities can be scheduled by calling the County Clerk.
All scheduling requests shall be submitted on a County building use application
form as far in advance as possible. Schedules cannot be confirmed in any event
more than one hundred eighty (180) days in advance and on facilities or rooms
that may be needed for County business, scheduling cannot be confirmed until it
is determined that it will not conflict with a use required by the County or
any of its departments.
   B.   Department Use: The individual departments of the County are provided
office and support space for their departmental use. In addition, other
facilities are available to County officials and departments on a scheduled
basis for County functions and business. When meeting rooms, conference rooms,
and other facilities are not being used to accommodate County needs, they may
be made available to other users and the public. All users are expected to
treat the facilities properly. Each County employee is expected through their
department to watch for inappropriate behavior or use in the buildings and
facilities. Problems should be reported immediately to the County Clerk or the
Sheriff's Department.
   C.   Commission Responsibility: The County Commission is ultimately
responsible for proper maintenance, care and use of the buildings and
facilities and the scheduling and use of those buildings and facilities.
   D.   Security: The Sheriff's Department is assigned responsibility for
security of all County buildings and facilities, unless otherwise specifically
designated. (Ord. 07-10, 5-1-2007)
6-1-4: RULES FOR USE OF BUILDINGS, MEETING AREAS AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Proper conduct is required of all participants and guests using
County facilities. No smoking or drug use is allowed. Alcohol beverages are not
allowed. County facilities shall not be used for commercial purposes, such as
selling products or charging entrance fees.
      2.   Time for preparation and cleanup must be scheduled as part of the
time reserved for meetings and activities.
      3.   Preparation, setup and cleanup are the responsibility of the party
reserving the facility.
      4.   Meetings and activities must be conducted in a manner to avoid any
damage to the buildings and its furnishings. Users will be billed for actual
labor and material costs of damages.
      5.   Participants and guests are to remain in the area of the building
that has been reserved for the meeting activity. Playing in halls, restrooms or
other unreserved areas by children is prohibited. The party reserving the
facility is responsible for the conduct of all participants and guests.
      6.   Meetings and activities shall end on time. Sufficient time shall be
given for cleanup within the scheduled time for the reservation so that back to
back events may be scheduled.
      7.   Lights should be turned off in the scheduled room at the conclusion
of the activity.
      8.   Pets or animals are not allowed in the buildings.
   B.   Supervision Of Children: Children attending meetings or activities in
County facilities must be supervised at all times by adults. If children are
unwilling to be supervised, they shall be invited to leave or be referred to
security. Children shall not be allowed to play in halls or restrooms. Children
shall not be left unattended in the parking lots, on the grounds or in other
unreserved areas during meetings or activities.
   C.   Tables And Chairs: The County has a limited number of tables and chairs
for use with meetings and activities within the building only. Arrangements for
tables and chairs should be made at the time the facility is reserved. If
tables or chairs are brought into the building by the user, they shall have
nonmarking feet and shall be delivered to and removed from the building using
the service entrances. Outside tables and chairs are not to be in the building
prior to or after the time of the reservations.
   D.   Other Equipment: Arrangements for equipment should be made at the time
of reservation for meetings and activities held in County buildings. Equipment
brought into the building from the outside must be delivered and removed using
service entrances. Equipment cannot be stored in the building prior to the
start of the reservation time or be left after the conclusion of the
reservation time.
   E.   Safety:
      1.   Applicable County safety laws and regulations are to be observed in
County buildings. All users of County buildings are obligated to keep the
buildings safe for building tenants, other users and the general public.
Activities that jeopardize the buildings, furnishings or occupants shall not be
permitted.
      2.   If water, drinks or food items are spilled on the floor, they shall
be cleaned up immediately.
      3.   Hallways, stairways, exits and traffic areas are to remain free of
tables, chairs, boxes and other items at all times.
   F.   Fire Codes:
      1.   County Fire Codes apply in all County buildings. Fire extinguishers
are provided at strategic locations in the buildings in case of emergency. Fire
extinguishers are not to be removed unless they are used to put out a fire.
Fire exits are available and are clearly marked with exit signs. Emergency
exits are equipped with crash hardware for immediate exit in case of emergency.
      2.   Portable electric heaters are not allowed in the buildings. Only one
(1) electrical appliance or lighting fixture is to be used on each outlet.
Extension cords, if needed, should be 3-wire variety (#14 3-wire). Care should
be taken not to overload electrical circuits.
   G.   Emergency Procedure:
      1.   Should an emergency occur while the building is occupied, users
should sound the alarm and alert everyone in the building. Everyone should be
instructed to immediately evacuate building in an orderly manner. Panic should
be avoided. The Sheriff's Office and fire authorities should be notified as
soon as possible. Those who are educated in the use of fire extinguishers may
attempt to contain small fires until firefighters arrive. The designated
meeting place during an emergency is the parking lot of the building.
      2.   In an earthquake emergency, care should be taken to stay in doorways
or under furniture rather than exiting the building.
   H.   Contracts For Outside Use: Use of County facilities, for non-County
functions, requires a signed contract (14 days processing time) with the County
Commission. Standard forms of contract for various types of events are
available for review.
   I.   Insurance: Non-County users are required to purchase event insurance
for their use of County facilities. Attach proof of liability insurance in the
amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) naming the County as additional
insured. If you are unable to provide proof of insurance, the County does have
a Tenant Users Insurance Program available for charge which is rated per event.
(Ord. 07-10, 5-1-2007)
6-1-5: FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Rodeo Grounds: The rodeo grounds will be scheduled on approval of the
County Commission. Any fee for the use of the facility will be determined by
the County Commission.
   B.   Other County Facilities: The park, pavilion, courtroom, commission
chambers, Dutch John Community Center and jury room shall be scheduled for
public use free of charge, when the event involves less than fifty (50) people.
(Ord. 07-10, 5-1-2007)
   C.   Deposits: The park, pavilion, courtroom, commission chambers, Dutch
John Community Center and jury room shall be scheduled for a refundable
deposit, as established by the Board of County Commissioners when the event
involves more than fifty (50) people. The deposit will be returned at the end
of the event if the facilities are in order, not requiring cleanup or repair.
(Ord. 07-10, 5-1-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS OF COUNTY ROADS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Purpose
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Permits Required
6-2-4: Surety Bond Or Cash Deposit
6-2-5: Moratorium On Newly Constructed Roads
6-2-6: Appeals
6-2-7: Violation; Penalty
6-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for permitting, cutting
or disturbance of roads or road surfaces owned or maintained by the County and
to provide appropriate fees and to provide for a moratorium on any disturbance
or cutting of road surfaces on newly constructed or resurfaced roads. This
chapter does not apply to work done by the County Road Department or the County
Special Improvement District. (Ord. 04-15, 6-1-2004)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
COUNTY ROADS: All roads in the unincorporated area of Daggett County which are
owned or maintained by Daggett County as shown on the Daggett County road maps.
MANAGEMENT COSTS: The reasonable direct and actual costs the County incurs in
exercising authority over roads and highways in its jurisdiction.
PAVED ROAD: A road that has had applied to it, asphalt, oil, concrete or other
similar substances (see definition used for State BD road classification).
UNPAVED ROAD: See definition used for State BD road classification. (Ord. 04-
15, 6-1-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Permitting Official: The permitting official shall be the County Clerk.
   B.   Unlawful Acts: No person or entity may:
      1.   Dig or excavate within the right-of-way of any County road; or
      2.   Place, construct or maintain any approach road, driveway, pole,
pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard, advertising sign, or any
other structure or object of any kind or character within the right-of-way
except as provided in this chapter or as otherwise specifically authorized by
State law.
   C.   Permitted With Compliance: The County may allow excavating,
installation of utilities and other facilities or access to County roads and
rights-of-way in compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in this
chapter and applicable Federal and State law.
   D.   Application For Permit: Any person or entity wishing to excavate or
install utilities and other facilities within the right-of-way of any County
road must apply for and obtain a permit for any such excavation or installation
and pay the fee and post the bond required pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   Fee To Accompany Application: The application for a permit for
excavation or installation shall be accompanied by the fee established herein.
   F.   Bond To Accompany Application: The application for any excavation or
installation shall be accompanied by a bond or other security as required by
this chapter.
   G.   Plans And Specifications Required: Prior to the issuance of any permit
to change, alter, cut or disturb any roadway or conduct any installation or
excavation in any County road right-of-way, plans and specifications prepared
by a licensed engineer, together with plans and specifications which provide
for the replacement of the road surface with appropriate compaction and
restructuring shall be provided to the permitting officers. The plans and
specifications prepared by the licensed engineer shall also include the
licensed engineer's estimate of the cost of restoring the surface and repairing
any damage done to the road surface or within the road right-of-way.
   H.   Restoration Guarantee: As a condition of any permit, the applicant must
guarantee the restoration of such surface to a condition equal to or better
than the condition existing prior to the disturbance of the surface and must
guarantee the repair work for a period not less than twelve (12) months. (Ord.
04-15, 6-1-2004)
   I.   Evaluation Fee: A permit and plan evaluation fee, as established by the
Board of County Commissioners, is required for each permit issued pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 04-15, 6-1-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
   J.   Costs Of Services: If the excavation or installation requires on site
supervision or inspection or evaluation by the County Road Department or the
County Engineer, the costs of providing those services shall be assessed as
management costs pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 72-
7-102, as amended. It is intended that the management costs referred to herein
shall be revenue neutral, such that the costs assessed shall, as nearly as
possible, equate to the management costs incurred by the County related to the
permitted work. (Ord. 04-15, 6-1-2004)
6-2-4: SURETY BOND OR CASH DEPOSIT:
   A.   Required: The application for a permit shall be accompanied by a
corporate bond issued by a company authorized and licensed to do business in
the State, or a cash deposit in an amount equal to one hundred twenty five
percent (125%) of the engineer's estimated cost of repair and restoration work
to the road, roadway, road surface and road right-of-way.
   B.   Form Approved: The corporate surety bond must be on a form approved by
the County Attorney. The amount of the bond shall be one hundred twenty five
percent (125%) of the estimated costs of restoration of the surface and
subsurface by the applicant's engineer, or one hundred twenty five percent
(125%) of the estimated costs established by the County engineer, whichever is
greater.
   C.   Liability For Additional Costs And Expenses: If a permittee fails to
make the repairs or otherwise violates the terms of the permit and the amount
of the bond or cash deposit is insufficient to reimburse the County for the
costs of the repair or restoration work, the permittee shall be liable for all
such additional costs and expenses incurred. Any person engaging in any
disturbance or excavation or installation work within a County road right-of-
way without a permit shall be liable to the County for all costs of restoration
and remediation.
   D.   Refund: The bond or cash deposit shall be refunded not less than one
(1) year after the completion of the repair and restoration of the road surface
or damage to the road right- of-way, upon satisfactory proof that the repairs
have been accomplished in accordance with the specifications in the permit and
the road surface repairs are and remain in good condition.
   E.   Forfeiture: If the person or entity obtaining the permit fails to
comply with the terms and conditions of the permit or fails to repair and
maintain the road or road right-of-way required by the permit, the bond shall
be immediately forfeited. (Ord. 04-15, 6-1-2004)
6-2-5: MORATORIUM ON NEWLY CONSTRUCTED ROADS:
   A.   Term Specified: When a County road or roadway has been reconstructed or
rebuilt by increasing the base, resurfacing or changing the grade, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or entity to cut, alter, change or disturb said
newly constructed road for a period of five (5) years.
   B.   Notice Required: Prior to any such reconstruction, rebuilding or
resurfacing, the County shall post a notice, in three (3) public places, of
said proposed work describing the roads to be improved and shall, to the extent
reasonably practical, provide written notice at least thirty (30) days in
advance to owners of property adjacent to said roads and to utilities having
facilities within the road right-of-way of the intended work and the impending
moratorium. Failure to provide notice as set forth herein or of an owner or
utility to receive said notice shall not prevent enforcement of the provisions
of this section.
   C.   Work By Utility Or Property Owner Prior To Resurfacing: Any utilities
and property owners that may have the need within the following five (5) years
to do any work within the road right-of-way should complete that work prior to
the resurfacing, rebuilding or reconstruction of the identified road. (Ord. 04-
15, 6-1-2004)
6-2-6: APPEALS:
Any person grieved by the denial of a permit or by the terms and conditions of
the permit or the fee assessed may, within fifteen (15) business days of said
action by the permitting official, file a written appeal of the decision to the
County Commission. Said written appeal shall set forth in detail and with
specificity the issues in dispute and all facts and information supporting the
applicant's position. The decision of the County Commission shall be final.
(Ord. 04-15, 6-1-2004)
6-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Work Without Permit: Any cutting of a road surface or any excavation or
installation within the road right-of-way of a County road without a permit and
the posting of a bond is a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each separate event or each day that said violation
continues is a separate and independent offense.
   B.   Violations: Any violation of this chapter is a Class B misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each separate event of disturbance of the newly
reconstructed, resurfaced or rebuilt road or road right-of-way shall be a
separate offense. (Ord. 04-15, 6-1-2004; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Recover Damages: In addition to any fines and imprisonment imposed, the
County shall be entitled to recover, as restitution and/or in a separate civil
action, all damages caused by said violation, including the costs of any
resurfacing that may be necessary to completely restore and resurface the
affected County road. (Ord. 04-15, 6-1-2004)
CHAPTER 3
CATTLE GUARDS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Permit Required
6-3-2: Plat Required
6-3-3: Installation And Maintenance By Permittee Or Owner
6-3-4: Maintenance By County
6-3-5: Removal By County For Abandonment Or Hazardous Condition
6-3-6: Penalty
6-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Except as provided for herein, cattle guards shall not be installed within
roads maintained by the County without first obtaining a permit and submitting
the required fees and bond for the same from the County Clerk. (Ord. 90-3, 6-
19-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
6-3-2: PLAT REQUIRED:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to install a cattle guard in a County
maintained road, shall first file a plat with the County Clerk showing: (Ord.
90-3, 6-19-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
   A.   The proposed location of the cattle guard.
   B.   The installation of the cattle guard will not create a hazard for the
public.
   C.   The cattle guard shall conform to the directional and grade of the
road.
   D.   The same shall be an approved design of the United States Department of
the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, Drawing No. 02-881-4, or a design as
indicated on the Utah Department of Transportation Drawing No. 760-1, which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof by reference.
   E.   That proper caution signs shall be placed to indicate the presence of a
cattle guard and livestock on the right-of-way when circumstances require.
(Ord. 90-3, 6-19-1990)
6-3-3: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE BY PERMITTEE OR OWNER:
The permittee or owner shall be responsible to install and maintain the
physical structure of the cattle guard in a safe and operable condition as
determined by the County Clerk to help ensure safety for the public. (Ord. 90-
3, 6-19-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
6-3-4: MAINTENANCE BY COUNTY:
Keeping the cattle guard clean of debris shall be considered as part of the
normal road maintenance performed by the County Road Department. (Ord. 90-3, 6-
19-1990)
6-3-5: REMOVAL BY COUNTY FOR ABANDONMENT OR HAZARDOUS CONDITION:
If, at any time, the owner abandons his responsibility of maintaining the
cattle guard and it becomes a hazard to the public, as determined by the County
Commissioners, the County shall have the right to remove the cattle guard and
repair the road, at which time County has the right to compensation. (Ord. 90-
3, 6-19-1990)
6-3-6: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as a Class B misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 90-3, 6-19-1990; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
EASEMENTS FOR UTILITY LINES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Easement, Plat And Bond Required
6-4-2: Burial Depth; Compliance Required
6-4-1: EASEMENT, PLAT AND BOND REQUIRED:
Any entity or public utility desiring to construct or place utility lines
within the County or public rights-of-way located in the County, shall first
obtain an easement from the County. The entity shall also provide to the County
a plat showing the proposed location of the line and a bond to ensure the
repair of any damage to the right-of-way. (Ord. 82-2, 6-2-1982)
6-4-2: BURIAL DEPTH; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The entity will also bury the line to a depth of at least thirty inches (30")
and shall comply with all other ordinances, rules, regulations and requests of
the County. (Ord. 82-2, 6-2-1982)
CHAPTER 5
USE OF PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Camping
6-5-2: Closed Areas
6-5-3: Lands Closed To Vehicles
6-5-4: Roads And Trails Closed To Vehicles
6-5-5: Parking In Posted Areas
6-5-6: Penalty
6-5-1: CAMPING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in areas signed or posted "No
Camping" within the County. (Ord. 78-4, 6-7-1978; amd. 2017 Code)
6-5-2: CLOSED AREAS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy areas signed or posted "Closed"
within the County. (Ord. 78-4, 6-7-1978; amd. 2017 Code)
6-5-3: LANDS CLOSED TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle on any public or
private land within the County which is posted "Closed to Vehicles", unless a
permit has been obtained first. (Ord. 78-4, 6-7-1978; amd. 2017 Code)
6-5-4: ROADS AND TRAILS CLOSED TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle on any trail or road
within the County which is posted "Closed to Vehicles". (Ord. 78-4, 6-7-1978;
amd. 2017 Code)
6-5-5: PARKING IN POSTED AREAS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
areas which are posted "No Parking" within the County. (Ord. 78-4, 6-7-1978;
amd. 2017 Code)
6-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 78-4, 6-7-1978; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE A.  PERSONAL FLOTATION DEVICES
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Definitions
6-5A-2: Flotation Devices Required
6-5A-3: Penalty
6-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning, the following definitions shall apply:
OPERATOR: A person who navigates or otherwise uses a motorboat or a vessel.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association or other
entity.
VESSEL: Every description of watercraft, other than a sea plane, on the water
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water. (Ord. 80-
3, 11-19-1980)
6-5A-2: FLOTATION DEVICES REQUIRED:
Any operator of a canoe, kayak, sport yak, dory, skiff, paddle craft,
inflatable raft or similar vessel, with or without a motor, while on any river
or body of water in the County, shall require all persons aboard that vessel to
wear either a Type I life preserver, Type II buoyant vest, Type III special
purpose water safety buoyant device, or Type V white water vest. If carrying
passengers for hire, shall have a Type I life preserver available for all to
wear, and shall require all passengers to wear a Type V white water vest;
however, a rowing boatman has the option to wear a Type II or Type III personal
flotation device, provided the required Type I or Type II personal flotation
device is readily accessible. (Ord. 80-3, 11-19-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
6-5A-3: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as an infraction and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 80-3, 11-19-1980; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 6
DISPOSITION OF COUNTY REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-6-1: Authorized
6-6-2: Disposal Of Property Authorized
6-6-3: Personal Property
6-6-4: Real Property In Public Use
6-6-5: Real Property Not In Public Use
6-6-6: Approval By Commission; Recordkeeping
6-6-7: General Rules
6-6-8: No Rights Created In Third Parties
6-6-9: Chapter Not Applicable
6-6-1: AUTHORIZED:
Real and personal property shall be disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 09-17, 10-20-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
6-6-2: DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY AUTHORIZED:
The Board of County Commissioners may dispose of, or control the disposition
of, any County property, real or personal (including lost or abandoned
property, and property whereby the County has any legal or equitable interest),
the disposition of which is determined to be in the public interest and in
accordance with good property management. The disposition of property, or any
interest therein, may be by public or private sale, exchange, exchange and
sale, option to purchase, lease, lease with an option to purchase, rental,
trade in, public auction, public advertisement for sealed bids, or any other
lawful manner or means. Such disposition shall not be for less than a full and
adequate consideration unless otherwise permitted by law, and such
consideration may be other than monetary. (Ord. 09-17, 10-20-2009)
6-6-3: PERSONAL PROPERTY:
The power to dispose of surplus, obsolete or unusable personal property held by
the County is vested in the County Auditor, and such disposition may be made in
any manner consistent with County policy. The County Auditor shall have
discretion, subject to the best interests of the County and its residents, and
in accordance with good property management techniques, over the disposition
and manner of disposition of surplus, obsolete or unusable personal property.
However, no such disposition shall be final without the approval of the
commission. (Ord. 09-17, 10-20-2009)
6-6-4: REAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Approval Of Commission; Hearing Required: The disposition of real
property that is in the public use, regardless of the value thereof, shall be
made only with the approval of the commission and after the holding of a public
hearing with proper notice.
   B.   Included Real Property:
      1.   Real property in public use is deemed to be significant real
property for purposes of State law, and includes, but is not limited to, realty
and improvements thereon in actual current use as governmental offices or other
public buildings, courthouses, jails, police stations, fire stations, developed
parks or other recreational or entertainment facilities, utilities, cemeteries,
animal control facilities, hospitals or other health facilities, facilities for
the welfare of the indigent, sanitary landfills, or any other realty or
improvement thereon held for the benefit or advantage of the general public and
not confined to use by privileged or particular individuals, without regard to
whether that use may be classified as governmental or proprietary.
      2.   In addition to subsection B1 of this section, real property is
deemed to be significant real property for purposes of State law if it is
larger than ten (10) acres, or has an estimated value, as determined by the
Board of County Commissioners, of more than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00).
   C.   Public Hearing; Notice: The commission shall call and hold a public
hearing concerning disposition of realty under this section, which hearing may
be at any special or regularly scheduled meeting of the commission. All
interested persons may appear and be heard at the hearing. Public notice shall
be given of the hearing, which shall contain the date, time and place thereof,
a statement of the purpose of the hearing, and a description of the property or
the interest therein to be disposed of. Such notice shall be published at least
once prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the County,
and the hearing shall be held no sooner than fourteen (14) days after the
publication of the notice thereof. (Ord. 09-17, 10-20-2009; amd. Ord. 20-13,
11-4-2020)
6-6-5: REAL PROPERTY NOT IN PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Included Real Property: Realty not in public use includes, but is not
limited to, realty or improvements thereon existing as vacant lands; real
property with vacant or unused buildings, structures or other improvements
thereon; buildings used as maintenance or repair facilities and not open to the
general public; buildings rented or leased by the County to private entities;
or any other realty or improvements thereon not held for the benefit or
advantage of the public, nor open to the general public or to a substantial
portion thereof.
   B.   Approval By Commission: The commission shall approve the sale of such
realty during any special or regularly scheduled meeting of the commission. No
public hearing is required.
   C.   Disposal Of Property: Where property is acquired by the County for a
specific purpose (such as in the case of transfers of development rights), said
property may be disposed of by the County for that purpose under this section
as real property not in public use. The commission may delegate the authority
to dispose of this classification of property to an administrative official of
the County. (Ord. 09-17, 10-20-2009)
6-6-6: APPROVAL BY COMMISSION; RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   Approval: No disposition of real or personal property, in public use or
otherwise, shall be finalized until the commission, at a special or regularly
scheduled commission meeting, shall have reviewed and approved the disposition
by motion (personalty) or resolution (realty), manner of disposition, and
consideration benefiting the County; except that the commission may, on a case
by case basis, preauthorize the final disposition of surplus property subject
to such restrictions, if any, as it may deem appropriate. If such final
disposition is authorized by the commission, the results of the final
disposition shall be submitted to the commission for approval and ratification.
   B.   Records: The County Auditor shall maintain permanent public records for
conveyances of real property and transactions involving personal property
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Such records must reflect a
description of the property sold or otherwise conveyed, an appraisal of the
real property conveyed, the manner of disposition, the consideration received
by the County, the identity of the person to whom such property was sold or
otherwise disposed of, the date of disposition, the date of approval by the
commission, and the nature of the County's use of the property prior to
disposition. (Ord. 09-17, 10-20-2009)
6-6-7: GENERAL RULES:
   A.   Condemnation: If real property was acquired by condemnation, the County
shall give the original owner the right of first refusal prior to the
disposition thereof.
   B.   Abandonment: Where the County has acquired real or personal property by
dedication for a specific purpose, it may abandon its interests to such only
through a vacation proceeding. In the case of all other assets, the vacation is
enacted by resolution of the County Commission at a public meeting which has
been properly noticed in accordance with the open meeting laws. Once the
County's interest in the property has been vacated, the ownership of the
property shall inure to the original owner who dedicated such to the County in
the case of personal property or wholly dedicated land, or to the current owner
where the County merely acquired a right-of-way interest to the land.
   C.   Tax Sale: Where the County has acquired real property through
delinquent taxes, the tax sale requirements and procedures of Utah Code
Annotated section 59-2-1301 et seq., shall apply. (Ord. 09-17, 10-20-2009)
6-6-8: NO RIGHTS CREATED IN THIRD PARTIES:
This chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be construed to, create any
rights, claims or causes of action in third parties. (Ord. 09-17, 10-20-2009)
6-6-9: CHAPTER NOT APPLICABLE:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the intergovernmental transfer or
disposal of property, regardless of whether or not the property is deemed to be
in public use, to another governmental entity if the Daggett County Commission
determines that the transfer or disposal is in best interest of the citizens of
Daggett County.  (Ord. 20-13, 11-4-2020)
TITLE 7
BUILDINGS, CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose And Intent
7-1-2: Codes Adopted
7-1-3: Successor Codes
7-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish the regulatory codes
and guidelines to govern construction within the County in a thorough and
concise manner while also providing for the adoption of changes to the codes
and guidelines without the necessity of adopting new ordinances for each change
or amendment to said codes and guidelines. (2017 Code)
7-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The International Building Code (IBC), as adopted by the
State, is hereby adopted as the Official Building Code for the County, subject
to section
7-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Fire Code: The International Fire Code (IFC), as adopted by the State,
is hereby adopted as the Official Fire Code for the County, subject to section
7-1-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Other Codes As Approved: All other building, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical, energy and/or natural gas codes established and adopted as standard
by the State at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified herein,
including their amendments, shall hereby become established as the adopted
codes of the County, subject to section
7-1-3 of this chapter. (2017 Code)
7-1-3: SUCCESSOR CODES:
The adoption of any and all codes, as established herein, as the adopted codes
of the County, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they
become adopted by the State and shall become effective by the County
immediately upon passage by the State legislature. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Prohibited Activities In Floodway Requiring Permit
7-2-2: When Building Permits Issued
7-2-3: Requirements
7-2-1: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES IN FLOODWAY REQUIRING PERMIT:
The following activities that require a permit will not be approved in a
floodway:
   A.   Constructing a new building.
   B.   Additions to existing buildings.
   C.   Substantially improving existing buildings.
   D.   Placing manufactured (mobile) homes.
   E.   Subdivision of land.
   F.   Temporary building and accessory structures.
   G.   Agricultural buildings.
   H.   Parking and storage of recreational vehicles.
   I.   Temporary or permanent storage, including gas/liquid tanks and sand/
gravel.
   J.   Roads, bridges and culverts.
   K.   Fill grading, excavation, mining and dredging.
   L.   Altering stream channels. (Ord. 04-05, 3-2-2004)
7-2-2: WHEN BUILDING PERMITS ISSUED:
Building permits will be issued only if the building site is reasonably safe
from flooding. (Ord. 04-05, 3-2-2004)
7-2-3: REQUIREMENTS:
The County may require that:
   A.   New and improved homes and manufactured homes to be elevated above the
base flood elevation.
   B.   Elevation certificates to document compliance after FEMA completes
flood mapping. (Ord. 04-05, 3-2-2004)
CHAPTER 3
CONTRACTS OF SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
7-3-1: Contracts For Construction In Special Service District
7-3-1: CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION IN SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
CONSTRUCTION: The same meaning as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 72-6-
109(1)(c)(i).
MAINTENANCE: The same meaning as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 72-6-
109(1)(e).
   B.   Contracts For Construction: Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
17D-1-107, contracts for "construction" entered into by the County Special
Service District which have an estimated cost in excess of one hundred twenty
five thousand dollars ($125,000.00) shall be subject to the provisions of the
Building Improvements and Public Works Projects Act, Utah Code Annotated
section 11-39-101 et seq.
   C.   Contracts For Maintenance: Contracts for "maintenance" entered into by
the County Special Service District that exceed one hundred twenty five
thousand dollars ($125,000.00) in estimated cost shall be subject to the
provisions of the Building Improvements and Public Works Projects Act, Utah
Code Annotated section 11-39-101 et seq., except that "maintenance" work or
projects conducted by the Special Service District, or by the Special Service
District utilizing the officers, employees, property, equipment, offices or
facilities of the County pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17D-1-107,
shall not be subject to the provisions of said Act and may, at the discretion
of the governing board of the County Special Service District, be performed
without bidding by the District or the County pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 17D-1-107. (Ord. 03-10, 6-9-2003; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 8
LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, INTENT, GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Declaration
8-1-2: Purpose
8-1-3: Short Title
8-1-4: Interpretation
8-1-5: Amendments
8-1-6: Conflicts
8-1-7: Effect On Previous Ordinances And Maps
8-1-8: Completion Of Required Improvements
8-1-1: DECLARATION:
This title is an amended zoning and subdivision ordinance for the
unincorporated area of Daggett County, Utah, dividing the unincorporated area
of said County into zoning districts appropriate for various classes of
residential, business and industrial uses; it also provides for the
establishment of land development standards and requirements. (Ord. 17-16, 7-
26-2017)
8-1-2: PURPOSE:
This amended zoning and subdivision title is designed to promote the public
health, peace, safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity and welfare of the
present and future inhabitants of the County; to guide, control and regulate
future growth and development in order to promote orderly and appropriate use
of land in the entire area of said County; to protect the character and
stability of residential, business, industrial, open space and recreational
areas of the County; to facilitate existing or potential traffic movements; to
provide adequate air, light and parking facilities; to secure safety from fire
and other dangers; to prevent overcrowding of land and undue congestion of
population; to protect the tax base of the County; and to secure economy in
governmental services and expenditures. In preparation of this title,
consideration has been given to Utah Code Annotated chapter 17-27a, and
sections 57-8-3 through 57-8-36, and sections 57-11-1 through 57-11-21, and to
all studies and surveys made in the past in connection therewith. (Ord. 17-16,
7-26-2017)
8-1-3: SHORT TITLE:
This title may be cited as the AMENDED ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE FOR THE
UNINCORPORATED AREA OF DAGGETT COUNTY. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes
set forth. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-1-5: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   The Board of County Commissioners may, from time to time, amend the
number, shape, boundaries or area of any zone, or any regulation within any
zones or any other provisions of this title. Any such amendment shall not be
made or become effective unless the same shall have been proposed by or be
first submitted for the approval, disapproval or suggestions of the Planning
Commission. Zoning amendment applications approved by the Planning Commission,
to become effective, shall receive the favorable vote of not less than a
majority of the entire membership of the Board of County Commissioners, as
jurisdiction may apply.
      2.   Zoning and subdivision amendment applications disapproved by the
Planning Commission may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment, as provided in
chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   Hearing And Publication Of Notice Before Amendment: Before finally
adopting any such amendment, the Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing thereon, and shall provide notice as provided in Utah State Code
Annotated Subsection 17-27a-205 as the same may be updated or amended from time
to time.
   C.   Determination Of County Legislative Body: The Board of County
Commissioners body, after notice as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 17-
27a-205, as amended, and public meeting and review of the decision of the
Planning Commission, may affirm, revise, alter or remand for further review and
consideration any action taken by said Planning Commission.
   D.   Disapproval Of Rezoning Application: Disapproval of an application to
amend the Zoning Map shall preclude the filing of another application to amend
the Zoning Map, to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any portion
thereof, to the same zone classification within one (1) year of the date of the
final disapproval of the application, unless the Planning Commission finds that
there has been a substantial change in the circumstances or sufficient new
evidence since the disapproval of the application to merit consideration of a
second application within the one (1) year time period. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017;
amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
8-1-6: CONFLICTS:
This title shall not nullify any laws, ordinances, agreements or covenants
which are more restrictive, but shall prevail over provisions which are less
restrictive. No statement in this title shall be operative if it is found to be
in conflict with any laws of the State. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-1-7: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS:
The existing ordinances of the County covering the subdivision of land and
zoning of areas and districts in the County, in their entirety, and including
the maps theretofore adopted and made a part of said ordinances, are hereby
superseded and amended to read as set forth herein; provided, however, that
this title, including the maps on file with the Planning Commission and by this
reference made a part hereof, shall be deemed a continuation of previous
ordinances and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of
previous ordinances is included in this title, whether in the same or in
different language; and this title shall be so interpreted upon all questions
of construction, including, but not limited to, questions of construction, and
to questions of conforming or nonconforming land uses, buildings or structures,
and to questions as to the dates upon which such uses, buildings or structures
become conforming or nonconforming. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-1-8: COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Performance Bonds: Any improvements required under this title by the
Planning Commission, including, but not limited to, curb, gutter and sidewalk,
fences, landscaping, streets, utility lines, parking and flood control
requirements shall be satisfactorily installed prior to the final electrical
inspection approval of the premises by the building inspector or, if no
electrical inspection is required, prior to the issuance of any occupancy
permit for the land being developed. In lieu of actual completion of such
improvements prior to the final electrical inspection approval or occupancy
permit, a developer may file with the County Commission, when applicable, a
cash or surety bond or escrow agreement in an amount specified by the County
Commission to ensure completion of such improvements within one (1) year. The
bond or agreement shall be approved by the County engineer and County Attorney.
Upon completion of the improvements for which a bond or escrow agreement has
been filed, the developer shall call for inspections of the improvements by the
building inspector.
   B.   Release: If the inspection shows the County standards and
specifications have been met in the completion of such improvements, the bond
or agreement shall be released within seven (7) days from the time of
inspection. If the bond agreement is not released, refusal to release and the
reasons therefor shall be given to the developer in writing within seven (7)
days from the time of the inspection. The bond or agreement may be partially
released based on the percentage of completion of the required improvements.
   C.   Exception: If the County Commission determines that the issuance of a
final electrical inspection approval or occupancy permit prior to completion of
any required improvements may be injurious to the health, safety or welfare of
the County or its inhabitants, it may refuse to accept a bond or escrow
agreement in lieu of actual completion of required improvements or may limit a
bond or escrow agreement to a period of less than one (1) year. (Ord. 17-16, 7-
26-2017)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS AND RULES
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Rules For Construction Of Language
8-2-2: Time Computation
8-2-3: Definitions
8-2-1: GENERAL RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE:
All words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. All words
in the singular number shall include the plural number and all words in the
plural number shall include the singular number. The word structure includes
the word building, the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory and the word
"may" is permissive. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-2-2: TIME COMPUTATION:
In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this title, the day of
the act, event or decision after which the designated period of time begins to
run is not to be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be
included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which event the
period runs until the end of the next day, which is neither a Saturday, Sunday
or a holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven
(7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the
computation. A half holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
holiday. The date of a decision or recommendation of the Planning Commission
shall be the date the hearing or such decision or recommendation is made. If no
hearing is held on the matter, the date of the decision or recommendation shall
be the date written notice of such decision or recommendation is mailed to the
applicant. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words are hereby defined:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached, subordinate building, use of which is
appropriate, subordinate and customarily incidental to that of the main
building or to the main use of the land and which is located on the same lot or
parcel of land with the main building or use. "Accessory building" includes
"storage container", as defined in this section
AGRICULTURAL ACCESSORY BUILDING: A structure on agricultural land as defined in
Utah Code title 59 chapter 5 part 2, designed, constructed, and used to house
farm implements, livestock, or agricultural produce or products used by the
owner, lessee, and sublessee of the building and members of their immediate
families, their employees, and persons engaged in the pickup or delivery of
agricultural produce or products. Habitation is prohibited.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising or grazing of livestock and
raising of crops, horticulture and gardening, including the keeping or raising
of domestic animals, fowl, bees and insects.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A multiple dwelling where two (2) or more resident units share
a wall, ceiling or floor. See definition of dwelling, multi-family.
AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD: Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is partly
below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance from
grade to floor below is more than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: An operator occupied dwelling unit where short term
lodging rooms and meals are provided for compensation on a small scale.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building containing rooms in which meals are provided for
compensation to more than two (2) persons but which does not include provision
for cooking in any guestroom.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for housing,
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL: A structure on agricultural land as defined in Utah
Code title 59 chapter 5 part 2, designed, constructed, and used to house farm
implements, livestock, or agricultural produce or products used by the owner,
lessee, and sublessee of the building and members of their immediate families,
their employees, and persons engaged in the pickup or delivery of agricultural
produce or products. Habitation is prohibited.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: An official or other person licensed through the State and
charged with the enforcement of County ordinances and State building codes.
BUILDING PERMIT: Written permission issued by the County building inspector for
the construction, repair, alteration or addition to a structure.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: Any one- and two-family dwelling or portion thereof,
including townhouses, that is used, or designed or intended to be used for
human habitation, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, or any
combination thereof.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The horizontal distance line which is generally parallel
to the related front, rear or side lot line. The building setback line cannot
encroach upon the required minimum yard dimensions for principally permitted
and accessory uses or structures.
CAMPING: A temporary establishment of living facilities, such as tents or
recreational vehicles.
CLUSTER SUBDIVISION: A form of development that permits a reduction in lot area
requirements, provided there is no increase in the number of lots permitted
under a conventional subdivision or increase in the overall density of
development, and the remaining land area is devoted to open space, active or
passive recreation, preservation of environmentally sensitive areas, or
agriculture.
CONDITIONAL USE: A land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the County, surrounding neighbors or adjacent land uses,
may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain
conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
Such use of land requires a conditional use permit pursuant to chapter 11 of
this title.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: The legal authorization to undertake a conditional use,
issued by the Planning Commission, pursuant to authorization by the Land Use
Authority, consisting of two (2) parts:
   A.   A statement of the factual determination by the Land Use Authority
which justifies the issuance of the permit; and
   B.   A statement of specific conditions which must be met in order for the
use to be allowed.
CONTIGUOUS: Touching between two (2) districts or areas of land which abut one
another.
COUNTY: The unincorporated area of Daggett County.
DENSITY: The number of persons or dwelling units per acre of gross area.
DESIGN, SUBDIVISION: The alignment, grade and width for easements and rights-
of-way for utilities; the final grade or contouring and general layout of lots
and streets within the area; location of land to be dedicated for park or
recreational purposes; and, such specific requirements in the plan and
configuration of the entire subdivision as may be necessary or convenient to
ensure conformity to or implementation of applicable general or specific plans.
DEVELOPMENT: The act, process or result of erecting, placing, constructing,
remodeling, converting, altering, relocating or demolishing any structure or
improvement to property, including grading, clearing, grubbing, mining,
excavating or filling of such property.
DRIVE-IN REFRESHMENT STAND: A place of business where food and drink are sold
primarily for consumption on the premises outside the structure.
DWELLING: A permanent building or portion thereof designed for or used as the
living quarters for one (1) family, intended or designed to be built, used,
rented, leased, let or hired out, to be occupied for living purposes. Dwelling
does not include a tent, recreational vehicle, hotel, motel, tourist cabin,
boarding house, hospital or nursing home.
DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY: See definition of dwelling, multi- family.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or structure occupied as or designed or
intended for occupancy as a residence for more than one (1) family and
containing two (2) or more separate dwelling units, which may be separated
vertically or horizontally, but not including commercial lodging or bed and
breakfast inns. Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum living quarters area of
four hundred (400') The minimum rental period for a multi-family dwelling shall
be thirty (30) days. Unless allowed per Title 8 Chapter 15 of this code. All
dwellings must meet IBC or HUD codes.
DWELLING, OVERNIGHT RENTAL: Rental of any property within residential zoning
districts shall not be permitted for periods of less than thirty (30) days.
Rental of dwellings within other areas is permitted or conditional as outlined
in the table of uses.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building or structure occupied as or designed or
intended for occupancy as a residence for one (1) family, the structure having
one (1) dwelling unit. See also Utah Code Annotated section 57-21-2. Each
single-family dwelling (except in agriculture and multiple use zones) shall
have a minimum of four hundred(400) square feet, not including non dwelling
space. The minimum rental permitted shall be thirty (30) days. Unless allowed
per Title 8 Chapter 15 of this code. All dwellings must meet IBC or HUD codes.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: See definition of dwelling, multi- family.
DWELLING UNIT: One (1) or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment, hotel or
apartment motel, designed for or occupied by one (1) family for living or
sleeping purposes and having one (1) but not more than one (1) kitchen or set
of fixed cooking facilities, other than hot plates or other portable cooking
units, and having its own sanitary facilities.
EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest in that portion of a lot or lots reserved
for present or future use by a person or agency other than the legal owner of
the property. The easement may be for use under, on or above the lot or lots. A
vested or acquired right to use land, other than as a tenant, for a specific
purpose; such right being held by someone other than the owner who holds title
to the land.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Services provided by public or private utilities, including
underground, surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam, water, sanitary sewer,
stormwater drainage and communication systems and accessories, such as poles,
towers, wires, mains, drains, vaults, culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch
basins, water storage tanks, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, pumps, lift stations and hydrants, but not including
buildings used or intended to be used for human habitation.
FACADE: The entire area of a building facing or side extending from the roof or
parapet to the ground and from one (1) corner of the building to another, but
does not include any structural or nonstructural elements which extend beyond
the roof of a building.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit, and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house or hotel, as herein defined.
FARM: An area of no less than twenty (20) contiguous acres which is used for
the commercial production of farm crops, such as vegetables, fruit trees, hay,
grain and other crops, and their storage on the area, as well as the raising
thereon of farm poultry and farm animals, such as horses, cattle, sheep and
swine for commercial purposes. The term "farm" includes the operating of such
an area for one or more of the above uses, including dairy farms, with the
necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the produce; provided, that
the operation of any such accessory uses is secondary to that of farm
activities; and provided further, that the farm activities do not include
commercial pen feeding or commercial feed lots, or the commercial feeding of
garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
FRONTAGE: All property fronting on one side of the street between intersecting
or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, end
of dead end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured along the
street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the
frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling or
storing motor driven vehicles.
GAS CORPORATION: The same meaning as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-
2-1, as amended.
GUEST: A transient person who rents or occupies a room for sleeping purposes.
GUEST RANCH: A building or group of buildings containing two (2) or more
guestrooms, other than a boarding house, hotel or motel, and including outdoor
recreational facilities, such as, but not limited to, horseback riding,
swimming, tennis courts, shuffleboard courts, barbecue and picnic facilities,
and dining facilities intended for the use primarily by guests of the guest
ranch, but not including bars and restaurants which cater primarily to other
than guests of the guest ranch.
GUESTHOUSE: A separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more
main dwelling structures and used for housing of guests or servants and not
rented, leased or sold separate from the rental, lease or sale of the main
dwelling.
GUESTROOM: A room which is designed for occupancy by one or more guests for
sleeping purposes, but having no cooking facilities and not including
dormitories.
HABITATION: The act of living in, occupying, or dwelling within a home, garage,
or accessory building.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or profession customarily conducted entirely
within a dwelling unit and carried on by a member of the family residing
therein, and which occupation or profession is clearly incidental and
subordinate to the use of the dwelling unit for dwelling purposes and does not
change the character thereof and in connection with which there are no
employees, other than a member of the immediate family residing in the dwelling
unit, and not mechanical equipment, except for that which is customarily used
for domestic, hobby or household purposes. "Home occupation" includes the use
of a dwelling unit by physician, surgeon, dentist, lawyer, clergyman or other
professional person for consultation or emergency treatment. "Home occupation"
may also include a clinic, hospital, barbershop, beauty parlor, animal
hospital, advertising or public relations agency, interior decorator's office
or workshop, real estate or insurance office, stockbroker's office, dwelling
for curing and packaging of meat products or similar use. "Home occupation"
shall include the care of not more than six (6) children, other than members of
the family residing in the dwelling. Parking for a home occupation shall be
limited to the following: a) one (1) car for each twenty five feet (25') of
unobstructed and unrestricted frontage of the subject property; and b)
available parking on the subject property where automobiles are customarily
parked.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging or boarding and lodging are provided for
more than twenty (20) persons and offered to the public for compensation and in
which ingress and egress to and from all guestrooms are made through an inside
lobby or office.
INTERSTATE PIPELINE COMPANY: A person or entity engaged in natural gas
transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission under the Natural Gas Act, 15 USC section 717 et seq.
INTRASTATE PIPELINE COMPANY: A person or entity engaged in natural gas
transportation that is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission under the Natural Gas Act, 15 USC section 717 et seq.
JUNK: Any old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, wood
and rubber debris, waste, or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or
parts thereof, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous
material.
JUNKYARD: The use of any lot, portion of a lot or tract of land for the
storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metal or other scrap
material, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or
other vehicles, or machinery or parts thereof; provided, that this definition
shall be deemed not to include such uses which are clearly accessory and
incidental to any agricultural use permitted in the zone.
LEGISLATIVE BODY: The Daggett County Board of County Commissioners.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a building or group of
buildings, together with such yards, open spaces, lot width and lot areas as
are required by this title, having frontage upon a street or upon a right-of-
way approved by the Planning Commission, or upon a right-of-way not less than
sixteen feet (16') wide. Except for group dwellings and guesthouses, not more
than one (1) dwelling structure shall occupy any one (1) lot.
LOT AREA: The total area of the horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and
rear lot lines, but not including any area occupied by rights-of-way or the
waters of any lake or river.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets or on a
curved street where the interior angle of such intersection or curved street
does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees (135o).
LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of the area of a lot which is occupied by all
buildings or other covered structures.
LOT DEPTH: For lots having front and rear lot lines which are parallel, the
shortest horizontal distance between such lines; for lots having front and rear
lot lines which are not parallel, the shortest horizontal distance between the
midpoint of the front lot line and the midpoint of the rear lot line; and for
triangular shaped lots, the shortest horizontal distance between the front lot
line and a line within the lot, parallel with and at a maximum distance from
the front lot line, having a length of not less than ten feet (10').
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTING: A lot, other than a corner lot, that has frontage on more
than one (1) street.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on a public right-
of-way.
LOT LINE: Any line bounding a lot.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of the property boundary line between two
(2) adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The common boundary line of a street and a street right-of-way
line towards which principal or usual entrance to the main building faces.
LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary line of a lot which is most nearly opposite the
front lot line of such lot, in case of a triangular or wedge shaped lot. In
case of a corner lot, providing that all requirements for yard space are
complied with, the owner may choose either side not abutting a street as the
rear lot line, even though it is not opposite the front lot line. Once the
choice has been made, it cannot be changed unless all requirements for yard
space can be complied with.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Daggett County, or a lot,
parcel or tract of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the Office of
the County Recorder of Daggett County.
LOT WIDTH: The width of the lot as measured along the building front setback
line required in the zone.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15,1976, according to the Federal Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974 (HUD Code), in one (1) or more sections, which, is eight
(8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length, or
when erected on site, is four hundred (400) or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems, and is attached to an approved permanent
foundation system that is installed around the exterior of the manufactured
home which, when completed, attaches the home to the ground in accordance with
plans providing for vertical loads, uplift, lateral forces and frost
protection. The surface of non concrete foundation applications shall be
finished in a manner to appear as masonry or concrete. All manufactured homes
shall have a data plate attached to the interior of the home and a HUD label
attached to the exterior of the home. Manufactured homes meeting this
definition and is twenty (20) years old or newer may be placed in any
residential zone.
METES AND BOUNDS: A method of describing the boundaries of land by direction
(bounds) and distances (metes) from a known point of reference.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit built prior to June 15,
1976, in accordance with a State Mobile Home Code which existed prior to the
Federal Manufactured Housing and Safety Standards Act (HUD Code), and, except
as outlined in chapter 12 of this title, and are only allowed in legally
licensed mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions after complying with the
requirements ANSI 225.1.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any tract of land on which two (2) or more mobile home spaces
are leased, or offered for lease or rent, to accommodate mobile homes for
residential purposes.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A specific area of land within a mobile home park designed
to accommodate one (1) mobile home.
MOTEL: A building or group of buildings containing guestrooms or dwelling
units, some or all of which have a separate entrance leading directly from the
outside of the building with garage or parking space located on the lot and
designed, used or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of
automobile transients. "Motel" includes motor courts, motor lodges and tourist
courts, but not mobile home parks or recreational vehicle parks.
MUNICIPALITY: An incorporated City or Town.
NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: A structure that:
   A.   Legally existed before its current land use designation; and
   B.   Because of one (1) or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does
not conform to the setback, height restrictions or other regulations, excluding
those regulations that govern the use of land.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of land that:
   A.   Legally existed before its current land use designation;
   B.   Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance
regulation governing the land changed; and
   C.   Because of one (1) or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does
not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
OFFICIAL MAP: The same meaning as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 72-5-
401, as amended.
OWNER: The holder of fee title to land or buildings or to property, whether a
person, partnership, corporation or other entity recognized by law, including
any lessee, permittee, assignee or successor in interest.
PARK MODEL: A unique trailer-type RV that is designed to provide temporary
accommodation for recreation, camping or seasonal use. They are certified by
their manufacturers as complying with the ANSI A1 19.5 standard for
recreational park trailers and are 400 square feet or less.
PARKING SPACE: The space required to park one (1) passenger vehicle off the
public right-of-way.
PERMANENT HUMAN HABITATION: The use of a constructed or preconstructed
dwelling, or any vehicle, RV, trailer or tent in excess of fifteen (15) days
for living quarters.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association,
trust, governmental agency or any other legal entity.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): An integrated design for development of
residential, commercial or industrial uses, or limited combinations of such
uses, in which the density and location regulations of the district in which
the development is situated may be varied or waived to allow flexibility and
initiative in site and building design and location, in accordance with an
approved plan and imposed requirements.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The County Planning Commission of Daggett
County. The Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority.
PLAT: A map or other graphical representation of lands being laid out and
prepared in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-603 et seq., as
amended.
PLAT, FINAL: A map of all or a portion of a subdivision that is presented to
the Daggett County Board of County Commissioners for final approval.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision that
is submitted to the Daggett County Planning Commission for recommendation and
to the Daggett County Board of County Commissioners for preliminary approval.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE OR QUASI-PUBLIC FACILITY: A use conducted by, or a facility or
structure owned by, a nonprofit, religious or eleemosynary institution that
provides educational, cultural, recreational, religious, institutional,
medical, community service or other similar types of public services, and
includes private hospitals, medical offices and cemeteries.
RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated section 17-23-17, as amended.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV):
   A.   A vehicular unit, other than a mobile home, primarily designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation use, that is either
self- propelled or pulled by another vehicle, which may legally travel upon
State highways without special permits.
   B.   "Recreational vehicle" includes:
      1.   A travel trailer;
      2.   A camping trailer;
      3.   A motor home;
      4.   A fifth wheel trailer; and
      5.   A van.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any parcel of land accommodating two (2) or more
recreational vehicles, campers or RV units for dwelling or sleeping purposes,
for which a charge is made for those accommodations.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park or
recreational vehicle park designed for the accommodation of one recreational
vehicle, together with its accessory structures, including carports or other
off street parking areas, storage lockers, armadas, cabanas, patios, patio
covers, awnings and similar appurtenances.
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached, subordinate building intended to be
used solely as a workshop or for the storage of automobiles, other vehicles, or
personal property, which is subordinate, and customarily incidental to, that of
the main building, and which is located on the same lot or parcel of land with
the main building or use. "Accessory building" includes any "storage
container", as defined in this section. Habitation is prohibited.
RESTAURANT: A place of business where a variety of food is prepared and cooked
and complete meals are served to the general public for consumption on the
premises, primarily in indoor dining accommodations.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area, either public or private, over which the right of
passage exists.
SERVICE STATION: A building or use devoted to the retail sale of fuels,
lubricants and other supplies for motor vehicles, including minor repair
activities which are subordinate to the sale of petroleum products.
SITE PLAN: A plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing its actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing buildings or structures, and those yet to
be erected, the location of the lot in relation to abutting streets, and such
other information as may be required by the Planning Commission, Zoning
Administrator or this Code.
SKETCH PLAN: A concept, informal map of the proposed subdivision of sufficient
accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and classification.
SPECIAL DISTRICT: All entities established under the authority of Utah Code
Annotated title 17B, local districts, and any other governmental or quasi-
governmental entity that is not a county, municipality, school district or unit
of the State.
SPOT ZONE: A zoning amendment which singles out a relatively small parcel for a
use classification totally different from that of the surrounding area, for the
benefit of the owner of such property or which is invalid because it is not in
accordance with the General Plan.
STORAGE CONTAINER: Any enclosed container having one hundred twenty (120)
square feet of floor space or larger. A storage container includes any and all
enclosed storage containers, cargo containers, shipping crates, boxes, trailers
or similar moveable pieces of equipment or objects.
STORY: The space within a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the ceiling next above.
STREET: A public right-of-way, including a highway, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
road, lane, walk, alley, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, public easement or
other way.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
      1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used
for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances;
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
         a.   Revising the legal description of more than one (1) contiguous
unsubdivided parcel of property into one (1) legal description encompassing all
such parcels of property; or
         b.   Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate
applicable land use ordinances;
      4.   A bona fide division or partition of land in a county, other than a
first class county, for the purpose of siting, on one (1) or more of the
resulting separate parcels:
         a.   An electrical transmission line or a substation;
         b.   A natural gas pipeline or a regulation station; or
         c.   An unmanned telecommunications, microwave, fiber optic,
electrical, or other utility service regeneration, transformation,
retransmission, or amplification facility;
      5.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the
adjustment; and
         b.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use
ordinance;
      6.   A bona fide division or partition of land by deed or other
instrument where the Land Use Authority expressly approves in writing the
division in anticipation of further land use approvals on the parcel or
parcels; or
      7.   A parcel boundary adjustment.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision" under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the County's subdivision ordinance.
SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT: The process of amending or changing in any way a
recorded subdivision plat.
SUBDIVISION VACATION: The process of removing from record a section of land
that was subdivided.
TENSION MEMBRANE STRUCTURES: Structures consisting of a metal or other frame
covered by an architectural membrane, or guy ropes and stakes, that are placed
under high tension or carries loads primarily through tensile stresses. Tension
membrane structures include structures known or commonly referred to as
architectural membrane structures, tensioned membrane structures, stressed
membrane structures, frame supported tension structures, tensioned fabric
structures, and all other similar structures such as a yurt, tent or hoop
garage. The definition of tension membrane structure does not include open air
canopies, such as freestanding awnings, shade structures, shade gazebos and
walkway covers.
UNIFORM BUILDING CODE: The current edition of the Building Code as adopted by
the State of Utah.
UNINCORPORATED: The area outside of the incorporated boundaries of cities and
towns.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designed, arranged,
intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon
the same lot occupied by the main use and devoted exclusively to the main use
of the premises.
USE, PERMITTED: Any use lawfully occupying land or buildings, as authorized in
the zone regulations and for which no conditional use permit is required.
VACATION PLAT: A plat submitted for the purpose of removing a subdivision from
the records of the County Recorder and the County Assessor which shows the area
that is to return to its original state.
VARIANCE: A waiver of specific regulations of this title granted by the Board
of Adjustment, in accordance with the provisions set forth in this title, for
the purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same zone.
VESSEL: Every description of watercraft, other than a sea plane, on the water
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
YARD: An open, unoccupied space, other than a court, unobstructed from the
ground to the sky, except where specifically provided by this title, on the lot
on which a building is situated.
YARD, FRONT: An open space on the same lot with a building between the front
line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the front lot line and extending
across the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the front yard is the minimum
distance between the front lot line and the front line of the building. On
corner lots, the front yard is the yard in front of the front or main entrance.
YARD, REAR: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the rear line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the rear lot line and
extending from the full width of the lot. The rear yard is found on the
opposite side of the building from the front yard.
YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the side line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the side lot line and
extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
ZONING DISTRICT: A geographical area of the County, established as a zoning
district by this title, within which the zoning regulations and requirements
are uniform. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 18-10, 5-8-2018; Ord. 20-06, 6-
16-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Building Inspector
8-3-2: Building Permits To Comply
8-3-3: Site Plans Required
8-3-4: Building Permits
8-3-5: Coordination By State Health, Building Officials And Inspectors
8-3-6: Building Permit Required; Utility Services
8-3-7: Costs, Charges For Zoning Changes And Plan Reviews
8-3-8: Violations And Penalty
8-3-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Office Created: The office of building inspector is hereby created
within the County, and the Board of County Commissioners shall appoint a
licensed inspector to fill said office.
   B.   Enforcement Officer: The building inspector shall be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this title.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Inspection: The building inspector is hereby authorized to inspect
or cause to be inspected all buildings and structures in the course of
construction, modification or repair, and to inspect land use to determine
compliance with the provisions of this title; provided, however, that no such
inspection shall be required as a condition precedent to commencement or
continuation of any construction, modification or repair of any building or
structure.
      2.   Enforcement: The building inspector shall enforce all of the
provisions of this and other applicable ordinances, employing all legal means
available to do so. In enforcement of this title, the building inspector, or
any employee of the department authorized to represent the building inspector,
shall have the right to enter any building for the purpose of determining the
use thereof, or to enter the premises for the purpose of determining compliance
with the provisions of this title; provided, that such right of entry shall be
exercised only at reasonable hours and that in no case shall entry be made to
any occupied building in the absence of the owner or tenant thereof without the
written order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   Maintain Records: The building inspector shall keep careful and
comprehensive records of applications or permits issued. He shall retain on
file copies of all papers in connection with building work so long as any part
of the building or structure to which they relate may be in existence. All such
records shall be maintained in the County Planning and Zoning Office and shall
be open to public inspection at reasonable hours, but shall not be removed from
the County Planning and Zoning Office.
      4.   Make Reports: The building inspector shall make a report to the
Planning Commission once each month or more often if requested, including a
statement of permits issued.
      5.   Cooperation Of Other Officials: The building inspector may request
and shall receive so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his duties,
the assistance and cooperation of all departments, agencies, officials and
public employees vested with the duty or authority to issue permits, licenses,
or to enforce the regulations of this title. Permits or licenses for uses,
buildings or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the regulations
of this title shall not be issued and any such permit or license if used in
conflict with the regulations of this title shall be null and void. (Ord. 17-
16, 7-26-2017)
8-3-2: BUILDING PERMITS TO COMPLY:
After the effective date hereof, no building permit may be issued without first
having been approved by the building inspector. The building inspector shall
not approve a building permit if any building, structure or use of land would
be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall any other
County or Municipal officer grant any permit or license, nor approve the use of
any building or land if said use would be in violation of this title. (Ord. 17-
16, 7-26-2017)
8-3-3: SITE PLANS REQUIRED:
A detailed site plan, drawn to scale (scale and sheet size to be determined by
the building inspector) shall be filed as part of any application prior to
consideration of or for any building permit. The site plan shall show where
pertinent:
   A.   Scale: Note of scale used.
   B.   North Point: Direction of north point.
   C.   Lot Lines: Lot lines, together with adjacent streets, roads and rights-
of-way.
   D.   Existing Structures: Location of all existing structures on subject
property and adjoining properties (completely dimensioned, including utility
lines, poles, etc.).
   E.   Proposed Construction And Improvements: Location of proposed
construction and improvements, including the location of all signs.
   F.   Vehicle Access: Motor vehicle access, including individual parking
stalls, circulation patterns, curb, gutter and sidewalk location.
   G.   Notes: Necessary explanatory notes.
   H.   Personal Information: Name, address and telephone number of builder and
owner.
   I.   Other Required Information: All other information that may be required
as determined by the building inspector. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-3-4: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   When Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, repair or
improve, remove or demolish, or to commence the construction of, or the set up
of a mobile home, alteration, removal or demolition of a building or structure,
or any industrial facility, without first filing with the building inspector an
application in writing and obtaining a formal permit. Agricultural buildings
(see subsections 8-6A-1A and B of this title) and detached accessory buildings
of less than two hundred (200) square feet (see ICC-IRC Code R105.2) are
exempt. This section shall apply to State and Federally financed construction
projects of any kind wherein the County has an interest to inspect said
projects to ensure the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
the County. Permits shall apply to all development and construction regardless
of whether the project is government or privately financed and owned.
   B.   Form:
      1.   An application for a building permit shall be made by the owner or
lessee, or agent of either, or the architect, engineer or builder employed in
connection with the proposed work. If such application is made by a person
other than the owner in fee, it shall be accompanied by a duly verified
affidavit of the owner in fee or the person making the application that the
proposed work is authorized by the owner in fee and that the person making
application is authorized to make such application as agent of the owner.
      2.   Such application shall contain the full names and addresses of the
applicant and of the owner, and, if the owner is a corporate body, of its
responsible officers.
      3.   Such application shall describe briefly the proposed work and shall
give such additional information as may be required by the building inspector
for an intelligent understanding of the proposed work.
   C.   Plans: Application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plan
in duplicate drawn to scale of the proposed construction or use containing
sufficient information for the enforcement of this title. The required
information to be shown on the plan shall include the legal description of the
property upon which the improvement is to be made, the street address of said
property, the type of the use to which said improvement is to be put, the type
of building to be created, the dimensions of the lot, parcel or tract of land
upon which said improvement is to be made, the dimensions of the improvement
and the distance said improvement is to be from the front, side and rear lot
lines of said lot, parcel or tract of land, and elevations of said improvement
showing the heights thereof, the location of water and sewer lines serving said
improvement and, if said improvement is not connected with a public sewer, then
the location of the private disposal system which serves or will serve said
improvement, the location of existing uses and buildings, and such other
information as the building inspector may require for the purpose of
determining whether a building permit may be issued under the terms of this
title.
   D.   Amendments: Nothing herein shall prohibit the filing of amendments to
an application or to a plan or other record accompanying the same, at any time
before the completion of the work for which the building permit was sought.
Such amendments, after approval, shall be filed with and be deemed a part of
the original application.
   E.   Completion Of Existing Building: Nothing in this title shall require
changes in the plans, construction or designated use of a building or structure
for which a lawful building permit has been issued prior to the time this title
or amendments thereto became effective, or which has been otherwise lawfully
authorized and the construction of which shall have been actually begun within
ninety (90) days after this title or amendments thereto became effective and
which the entire building or structure shall be completed as authorized within
two (2) years thereafter.
   F.   Action On Applications: It shall be the duty of the building inspector
to examine applications for building permits within a reasonable time after
filing. If, after examination, he finds no objection to the same and it appears
that the proposed work will be in compliance with the laws and ordinances
applicable thereto, he shall approve such application and issue a building
permit for the proposed work as soon as practicable. If his examination reveals
otherwise, he shall reject such application, noting his finding in a report to
be attached to the application and delivering a copy to the applicant.
   G.   Approval In Part: Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the
building inspector from issuing a building permit for the construction of part
of a building or structure before the entire plans and detailed statements of
said building or structure have been submitted or approved, if adequate plans
and detailed statements have been presented for the same and have been found to
comply with this title.
   H.   Limitation Of Building Permit:
      1.   All work performed under a building permit issued by the building
inspector shall conform to the approved application and plans and approved
amendments thereof.
      2.   Location of all new construction as shown on the approved plot
diagram or an approved amendment thereof, shall be strictly adhered to.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to reduce or diminish the area of a lot or plot
for which a plot diagram has been filed and has been used as the basis for a
building permit, unless a revised plot diagram showing the proposed change in
conditions shall have been filed and approved; provided, that this shall not
apply when the lot is reduced by reason of a street opening or widening, or
other public improvement.
      4.   A building permit under which no work is commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days after issuance shall expire by limitation.
      5.   If a parcel of land is subdivided into two (2) or more lots and not
recorded, the issuance of building permits shall be prohibited within such
subdivision; provided, that this limitation shall be removed when the
subdivision is officially approved by the Planning Commission and properly
recorded, subject to all requirements imposed by the County subdivision
ordinance.
      6.   A building permit shall not be issued for any building or structure
on any lot or parcel of land unless that lot or parcel adjoins for a minimum
distance of twenty feet (20') directly upon a street or upon a permanent
easement.
   I.   Signature To Building Permit: Every building permit issued by the
building inspector under the provisions of this title shall have his signature
affixed thereto, but this shall not prevent him from authorizing a subordinate
to affix such signature.
   J.   Posting Of Building Permit:
      1.   A copy of the building permit shall be kept on the premises open to
public inspection during the prosecution of the work and until the completion
of the same.
      2.   The Governing Body may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to completion thereof.
      3.   The building inspector shall be given at least twenty four (24)
hours' written or electronic notice of the starting of work under a building
permit.
   K.   Revocation: The building inspector may revoke a building permit or
approval issued under the terms of this title if there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to fact in the application or plans on which
the building permit or approval was based.
   L.   County Assessor: One (1) copy of each building permit issued by the
building inspector shall be transmitted to the County Assessor within thirty
(30) days.
   M.   Fees: Any fee charged for the issuance of building permits shall be
based upon the current International Building Code as recommended therein.
   N.   Codes Adopted: The County adopts and enforces the provisions of the
International Building Code, in its most recent editions, as editions are
updated from time to time, as well as the International Plumbing Code and the
National Electrical Code, the Model Energy Code, and the State regulations
which apply to the handicapped. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-3-5: COORDINATION BY STATE HEALTH, BUILDING OFFICIALS AND INSPECTORS:
   A.   Scope; Notice To County: The County government finds that it is in the
interest of the County for purposes of coordination and efficient provision of
government services to be informed of, and coordinated with, officials of the
State as they perform their numerous tasks of inspections for State health and
other State regulations. Therefore, State inspectors and agents of the State
Tax Commission shall notify the building inspector of all State inspections of
new or existing development within the County, and of all State issued permits
granted, denied or renewed within the County.
   B.   Denial: The County reserves the right to deny occupancy, construction,
development or any use where a State inspection or permit was not previously
coordinated with the County prior to its issuance. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-3-6: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; UTILITY SERVICES:
   A.   Building Permit: The County requires that a building permit be obtained
before the start of construction of structures within the County.
   B.   Furnishing Utility Services: Any individual, business, company or
entity is hereby prohibited from furnishing utility services to any new
construction or any newly constructed structure until said individual,
business, company or entity is furnished with a copy of the certificate of a
building permit for said structure from the County. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-3-7: COSTS, CHARGES FOR ZONING CHANGES AND PLAN REVIEWS:
   A.   Purpose: It is recognized that County governments incur substantial
costs in the processing and review of petitions and applications for land
development, changes in ordinances, zoning changes and appeals therefrom. In
order to ease the burden on the public, reasonable charges shall be imposed on
all petitions and applications which come before the Planning Commission.
   B.   Charges To Be Imposed: The costs and charges in connection with
petitions and applications to the Planning Commission shall be in such amounts
as established by the Board of County Commissioners.
   C.   Fees Additional: These fees are in addition to all required subdivision
fees. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-3-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   Any sale or transfer of real property by contract, grant, gift or
any other form which is not recorded with the Office of the County Recorder,
and any building or structure erected or maintained or any use of property in
violation of this title shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance, and the County Attorney shall immediately commence
action, or actions, proceeding or proceedings for the abatement, removal and
enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law; and shall take such other
actions and shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to
grant such relief as will abate or remove such building, structure or use and
restrain and enjoin any person from establishing, erecting or maintaining such
building or structure, or using any property in violation of this title. It
shall be the right and duty of every citizen to participate and assist the
County officials in the enforcement of the regulations of this title. The
Planning Commission shall report in writing to the County Attorney any real
property or structure it knows or has reason to believe is in violation of this
title.
      2.   No land, building or structure shall be used for any purpose or use
not allowed in the zone in which such land, building or structure is located.
      3.   Such person, firm or corporation who intentionally violates this
title shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during which any violation of this title is committed, continued or permitted
by such person or corporation and shall be punishable as herein stated;
provided, however, that when any structure or use is in continuous violation of
this title for a period exceeding five (5) years, and upon proper affidavits
being submitted to the Planning Commission to the effect that no action has
been instigated or complaint received during said period with respect to the
violation, and when said commission finds that in the interest of justice and
the general public good and welfare such structure or use should be allowed to
continue, then and in that event said commission may declare such structure or
use nonconforming. However, the period of limitations of five (5) years
prescribed herein shall not commence to run until the effective date hereof and
in no way shall be interpreted to permit the continuation of any violation
which existed on the effective date hereof.
   B.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Any property known or believed to be in violation shall be served
notice of said violation by:
         a.   Registered or certified letter from the Planning Commission
addressed to the owner listed on the County tax assessment roll; or
         b.   A stop work sign posted conspicuously on the property.
      2.   These two (2) forms of notice shall describe the alleged violation
and shall state the full text of subsections A and C of this section. The
notices shall also inform the violator of the location to which he may respond
to the notice and the time limit within which such action may be taken.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates any regulation of this title, or
violates or fails to comply with any order or regulation made hereunder, shall
be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every violator shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each day such violation is permitted to exist after official County notice
has been given. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
8-4-1: Appointment, Term, Removal
8-4-2: Organization, Meetings, Records
8-4-3: Members Serve Without Compensation
8-4-4: Contracts And Employment
8-4-5: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
8-4-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM, REMOVAL:
The Planning Commission shall consist of five (5) members. Members shall be
appointed by the County Commission from the residents of the County. Planning
Commission members shall be appointed to serve for a period of three (3) years.
Each member of the Planning Commission shall serve until the expiration of the
term for which he is appointed, and until his successor is appointed and
qualified. Any vacancy occurring during the term of any member of the Planning
Commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification shall
be promptly filled by appointment of the County Commission for the unexpired
portion of the term. Any member may be removed for cause by the County
Commission upon written charges, and after a public hearing, if such hearing is
requested. Two (2) alternate members shall be appointed by the County
Commission to serve on the Planning Commission for a three (3) year term, and
shall be authorized to vote on all matters when the alternate member is needed
to create a full quorum of three (3) members. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-4-2: ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, RECORDS:
The Planning Commission shall organize and elect a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson, and may adopt rules and regulations in accordance with the
provisions of this title. The Chairperson, when in attendance, shall preside at
all meetings of the commission and shall be a voting member. A quorum of the
Planning Commission shall consist of three (3) or more members. Meetings of the
commission shall be at the call of the Chairperson, and at such other times as
the commission may determine. All meetings of the Planning Commission, except
executive sessions wherein no binding decisions can be made, shall be open to
the public. The Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such facts, all of which shall be filed in the office of the
commission and shall be a public record. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-4-3: MEMBERS SERVE WITHOUT COMPENSATION:
Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation, except
that they may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred with the approval
of the County Commission. The Secretary may be paid as approved by the County
Commission. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-4-4: CONTRACTS AND EMPLOYMENT:
The County Commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem
necessary for the work of the Planning Commission, and may contract with
planners and other consultants for such services as it requires, provided the
expenditures of the Planning Commission shall not be in excess of such sums as
may be appropriated by the County Commission and/or placed at the disposal of
the commission through gift or otherwise. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-4-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Reports And Recommendations: The Planning Commission may make reports
and recommendations relating to the plan and development of the County to
County officials and agencies, other organizations and citizens. It may
recommend to the County Commission programs for public improvements and the
financing thereof.
   B.   Entrance Upon Land: The Planning Commission, its members and employees,
in the performance of its functions, may enter upon any land at reasonable
times to make examinations and surveys and place and maintain necessary
monuments and marks thereon.
   C.   Generally: In general, the commission shall have such powers as may be
necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote County planning.
   D.   Zoning Plan: The Planning Commission, through its own initiative or by
order of the County Commission, shall make and certify to the County Commission
a zoning plan, including both the full texts of the zoning ordinance and maps,
and any amendments thereto, representing the commission's recommendations for
zoning the unincorporated County into districts or zones of such number, shape
and area as it may determine.
   E.   Master Plan:
      1.   Prepare; Adopt: It shall be the function and duty of the Planning
Commission, after holding public hearings, to make and adopt and certify to the
County Commission a Master Plan for the physical development of the County. The
Master Plan, with the accompanying maps, charts and descriptive and explanatory
matter, shall show the commission's recommendations for the physical
development and may include, among other things, the general location and
extent of streets. The Planning Commission, after holding a public hearing
thereon, may from time to time amend, extend or add to the plan or carry any
part or subject matter into greater detail.
      2.   Master Plan To Act As Guide For Development: Whenever the County
Commission shall have adopted a Master Plan for the unincorporated area of the
County, all land use decisions should, where practical, conform to the adopted
Master Plan. The Master Plan should be reviewed and updated from time to time
to reflect new circumstances.
   F.   Adoption Of Master Street Plan: The Planning Commission shall adopt and
maintain a Master Street Plan for the County in conformance with, and as a part
of, the Comprehensive General Plan. The Master Street Plan shall contain the
proposed location of all arterial and collector streets and such other
principal streets as the commission may deem appropriate. Upon adoption of a
Master Street Plan by the Planning Commission, the plan shall be submitted to
and recommended to the County Commission for adoption as the Official Master
Street Plan.
   G.   Approval And Recording Of Subdivision Plats: No plat of a subdivision
of land lying within the County shall be filed or recorded in the County
Recorder's Office until it shall have been submitted to and approved by the
commission and County, and such approval entered in writing on the plat by the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission and County Commission, and no County
Recorder shall file or record a plat of a subdivision without such approval,
and any recording of a plat of a subdivision without such approval shall be
void. In exercising the powers granted to it, the Planning Commission shall
prepare regulations governing the subdivision of land within the County. A
public meeting thereon shall be held by the County Commission, after which the
County Commission may adopt the regulations for the County.
   H.   Other Powers And Duties: The Planning Commission shall have such other
powers and functions and shall perform such duties as are prescribed by Utah
Code Annotated title 17, chapter 27a, as amended, and such other powers and
duties as may be prescribed by law. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Appointment, Term, Removal
8-5-2: Powers And Duties
8-5-3: Action By Board
8-5-4: Voting Of Board
8-5-5: Meetings And Rules
8-5-6: Appeals To Board
8-5-7: Authority Limited
8-5-8: Further Appeal To Court
8-5-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM, REMOVAL:
There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment, which shall consist of five (5)
members, each to be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners for a term
of one (1) year; provided, that the terms of the members of the first board so
appointed shall be such that the term of one (1) member shall expire each year.
Any member may be removed for cause by the Board of County Commissioners upon
written charge after public hearing if such public hearing is requested.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term is
not completed. The Chairperson of the board shall be elected by the board
members and shall serve a one (1) year term. Successive elections are
permitted. Unless otherwise provided, the County Commission may serve as the
Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-5-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Appeals: It shall be the duty of such board to hear all appeals taken
by the person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the
County affected by any decision related to administration or enforcement of
this title. Said board shall adopt rules for the regulation of its procedures
and conduct of its duties not inconsistent with the provisions of this title or
of the State law, which said rules shall be submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners for approval prior to their adoption and which may be altered,
amended or changed in the same manner.
   B.   Powers Specified: The board, after proper notice and public hearing,
shall have the following powers, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
17-27a-701 et seq.:
      1.   Appeals: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the
appellant that there is error in any order, requirement, decision or refusal
made by the Planning Commission based on or made in the enforcement of this
title.
      2.   Variances: When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or
shape of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the
regulation, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of the provisions of any regulation enacted under this
title would result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to, or
exceptional and undue hardships upon, the owner of such property, to authorize,
upon an appeal relating to said property, a variance from such difficulties or
hardship, provided such relief may be granted without substantial detriment to
the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of
the Master Plan and this title. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-5-3: ACTION BY BOARD:
In exercising the above mentioned powers, such board may, in conformity with
the provisions of the law, reverse or affirm, wholly or partially, or may
modify the order, requirements, decision or determination appealed from and may
make such determination as ought to be made and to that end shall have all the
powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken; provided, that before any
variance may be granted, it shall be shown that special circumstances attached
to the property covered by the application, which do not generally apply to
other properties in the same zone; that because of said special circumstances,
property covered by application is deprived of privileges possessed by other
properties in the same zone; and that the granting of the variance is essential
to the enjoyment of a substantial property right possessed by other property in
the same zone. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-5-4: VOTING OF BOARD:
The concurring vote of four (4) of the five (5) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement or determination of any such
Planning Commission, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter on
which it is required to pass, or to affect any such variation to this title.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-5-5: MEETINGS AND RULES:
Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such
other times as the board may determine. The Chairperson of said Board of
Adjustment or in his absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses at such meetings, and all meetings shall be
open to the public. The board shall fix a reasonable time for any meeting and
shall give public notice thereof as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 17-
27a-205. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5-6: APPEALS TO BOARD:
   A.   Authorized Appeals: Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken:
      1.   By any person aggrieved by the inability to obtain a building
permit, or by the decision of any administrative officer, or agency based upon
or made in the course of the administration or enforcement of the provisions of
this title.
      2.   By any officer, department, board or bureau of the County affected
by the grant or refusal of a building permit or by other decision of an
administrative officer or agency based on or made in the course of the
administration or enforcement of the provisions of this title.
   B.   Theory Of Relief: The appellant shall provide the Board of Adjustment
every theory of relief that can be raised in District Court.
   C.   Fee: The appellant shall pay a fee to the County Clerk in such amount
as established by the Board of County Commissioners.
   D.   Records Transmitted: The Planning Commission shall transmit to the
Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was based. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-5-7: AUTHORITY LIMITED:
It shall not be the function of the Board of Adjustment to correct what it may
consider to be an unwise requirement in this title or to substitute its
judgment in place of that of the Board of County Commissioners as to what is
good or poor zoning. The Board of Adjustment may grant only those variances
which are specifically mentioned in this chapter. Nevertheless, it shall be the
duty of the board to recommend appropriate modifications or amendments to this
title to the Planning Commission when in its opinion such modifications or
amendments would more fully promote the objectives and purposes of this title.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-5-8: FURTHER APPEAL TO COURT:
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may have and
maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of competent
jurisdiction; provided, that petition for such relief is presented to the court
within thirty (30) days after the filing of such decision in the Office of the
Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
8-6-2: Filing Of Ordinance And Map
8-6-3: Rules For Locating Boundaries
8-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purposes of this title, the territory of the local jurisdiction to
which this title applies is divided into the following zoning districts:
MU-40  Multiple Use District
MU-80  Multiple Use District
MU-160 Multiple Use District
A-20   Agricultural District
A-40   Agricultural District
RR-1/2 Rural Residential District
RR-1   Rural Residential District
RR-5   Rural Residential District
RR-10  Rural Residential District
R1-40  Residential District
R1-20  Residential District
R1-12  Residential District
R1-10  Residential District
R1-8   Residential District
R1-6   Residential District
RM-7   Residential District
RM-15  Residential District
CN     Neighborhood Commercial District
CS     Shopping Commercial District
CH     Highway Commercial District
CG     General Commercial District
MD     Manufacturing-Distribution District
MG     General Industrial District
CD     Central Development District
PUD    Planned District
 
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6-2: FILING OF ORDINANCE AND MAP:
This title and map shall be filed in the custody of the County Clerk and may be
examined by the public, subject to the reasonable regulations established by
said Clerk. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6-3: RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any district, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   Wherever the district boundary is indicated as being approximately upon
the centerline of a street, alley or block, or along a property line, then,
unless otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the centerline of such
street, alley, block or such property line, shall be construed to be the
boundary of such district.
   B.   Whenever such boundary line of such district is indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal or other waterway, or
railroad right-of-way, or public park or other public land, or any section
line, then in such case the center of such stream, canal or waterway, or of
such railroad right-of-way, or boundary line of such public land or such
section line, shall be deemed to be the boundary of such district.
   C.   Where such district boundary lines cannot be determined by the above
rules, their location may be found by the use of the scale appearing upon the
map.
   D.   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the district
boundary location, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret the map. (Ord. 17-
16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE A.  MULTIPLE USE, AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-6A-1: Purposes
8-6A-2: Codes And Symbols
8-6A-3: Uses
8-6A-4: Area, Width, Frontage, Yard, Height And Coverage Regulations
8-6A-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   Multiple Use Districts:
      1.   The purposes of providing a multiple use district are to establish
areas in mountain, hillside, canyon, mountain valley, desert and other open and
generally undeveloped lands where human habitation would be limited in order to
protect land and open space resources; to reduce unreasonable requirements for
public utility and service expenditures through uneconomic and unwise dispersal
and scatteration of population; to encourage use of the land, where
appropriate, for forestry, grazing, agriculture, mining, wildlife habitat and
recreation; to avoid excessive damage to watershed, water pollution, soil
erosion, danger from brush land fires, damage to grazing, livestock raising and
to wildlife values; and to promote the health, safety, convenience, order,
prosperity and general welfare of the inhabitants of the community.
      2.   Agricultural buildings are not required to obtain a building permit
when used solely in conjunction with agriculture use, and are not for human
occupancy; notwithstanding this and unless otherwise exempted, a site plan is
required and permits for plumbing, electrical and mechanical work will be
required when that work is included in the structure.
 
District  Minimum Lot Size
   MU-440 acres
   MU-880 acres
   MU-1160 acres
 
   B.   Agricultural Districts:
      1.   The purpose of this district is to promote and preserve in
appropriate areas conditions favorable to agriculture and to maintain greenbelt
open spaces. These districts are intended to include activities normally and
necessarily related to the conduct of agriculture and to protect the district
from the intrusion of uses inimical to the continuance of agricultural
activity.
      2.   Agricultural buildings are not required to obtain a building permit
when used solely in conjunction with agriculture use, and are not for human
occupancy; notwithstanding this and unless otherwise exempted, a site plan is
required and permits for plumbing, electrical, and mechanical work will be
required when that work is included in the structure.
 
District Minimum Lot Size
A-20     20 acres
A-40     40 acres
 
   C.   Rural Residential Districts: The purpose of this district is to promote
and preserve in appropriate areas conditions favorable to large lot family
life, the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl, and reduced
requirements for public utilities. These districts are intended to be primarily
residential in character and protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.
 
District Minimum Lot Size
RR-1/2   1/2 acre
RR-1     1 acre
RR-5     5 acres
RR-10    10 acres
 
   (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6A-2: CODES AND SYMBOLS:
In the following sections of this article, uses of land or buildings which are
allowed in the various districts are shown as "permitted uses", indicated by a
"P" in the appropriate column, or as "conditional uses", indicated by a "C" in
the appropriate column. If a use is not allowed in a given district, it is
either not named in the use list or it is indicated in the appropriate column
by a blank cell. If a regulation applies in a given district, it is indicated
in the appropriate column by a numeral to show the linear or square feet, or
acres required, or by the letter "A". If the regulation does not apply, it is
indicated in the appropriate column by a blank cell. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6A-3: USES:  No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be       hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained in the multiple use, agricultural or rural residential districts,
except as provided in this article.
  Multiple Use       Agricultural Rural Residential
  MU-40 MU-80 MU-160 A-20 A-40    RR-1/2 RR-1 RR-5 RR-10
                         Multiple Use       Agricultural Rural Residential
                         MU-40 MU-80 MU-160 A-20 A-40    RR-1/2 RR-1 RR-5 RR-10
Accessory buildings and
uses customarily         P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
incidental to permitted
uses
Accessory uses and
buildings customarily    C     C     C      C    C       C      C    C    C
incidental to
conditional uses
Agriculture and                                                    
forestry:
 Agriculture, business  C     C     C      C    C             C    C    C
  or industry
  Agriculture, except
 grazing and pasturing  P     P     P      P    P             P    P    P
  of animals
  Agriculture, including
 grazing and pasturing  P     P     P      P    P             P    P    P
  of animals
  Animals and fowl for
  recreation or for
 family food production P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
  for the primary use of
  persons residing on
  premises
  Farms devoted to
  raising and marketing
  chickens, turkeys or
 other fowl or poultry, P     P     P      P    P                 C    C
  fish or frogs,
  including wholesale
  and retail sales
  Forest industry, such
 as sawmill, wood       C     C     C                                
  products plant or
  others
 Forestry, except       P     P     P      P    P             P    P    P
  forest industry
 Nursery or greenhouse, C     C     C      C    C             C    C    C
  wholesale or retail
  The tilling of the
 soil, raising of       P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
  crops, horticulture
  and gardening
Apiary                   P     P     P      P    P             C    C    P
Aviary                   P     P     P      P    P             P    P    P
Cluster subdivision of                                             
single-family dwellings:
  Provided, that the
  residential density is
 not increased by more                             C      C    C    C
  than 100 percent for
  the district
  Provided, that the
 area, in acres, of the                            3      5    15   40
  parcel is not less
  than
Dude ranch, family       C     C     C      C    C                     C
vacation ranch
Dwellings:                                                         
 Guesthouse             C     C     C      C    C                      
 Seasonal home or cabin C     C     C      P    P       P      P    P    P
 Single-family          P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
 Two-family             C     C     C      P    P             P    P    P
Home occupation          C     C     C      C    C       C      C    C    C
Household pets           P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
Hydroelectric dam        C     C     C      C    C       C      C    C    C
Kennel                                   C    C             C    C    C
Mine, quarry, gravel
pit, rock crusher,
concrete hatching plant, C     C     C      C    C                     C
or asphalt plant, oil
wells, or steam wells
Petroleum and gas
exploration and          C     C     C      C    C       C      C    C    C
production
Power generation:                                                  
 Large wind energy      C     C     C      C    C       C      C    C    C
  system
 Minor wind energy      P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
  system
 Small wind energy      C     C     C      C    C       C      C    C    C
  system
Private park or
recreational grounds or
private recreational
camp or resort,
including accessory or
supporting dwellings or  C     C     C      C    C                 C    C
dwelling complexes and
commercial service uses
which are owned or
managed by the
recreational facility to
which it is accessory
Public stable, riding
academy or riding ring,  C     C     C      C    C                 C    C
horse show barns or
facilities
Public use, quasi-public
use, essential services,
including private
school, with a
curriculum corresponding
to a public school,      C     C     C      C    C             C    C    C
church; dams and
reservoirs; radio and
television transmitting
stations or towers;
cemetery
Residential accessory
building built
simultaneously or after                             A      A         
residential dwellings
(must have permit for
both if built before)
Short term rentals       C     C     C      C    C                     C
Signs:                                                             
  1 civic sign, not to
 exceed 16 square feet  P     P     P      P    P                 C    C
  in sign area
  1 development sign,
 not to exceed 8 square P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
  feet in area
  1 identification sign,
 not to exceed 16       P     P     P      P    P                     P
  square feet in sign
  area
  1 real estate sign,
 not to exceed 8 square P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
  feet in area
  1 residential sign,
 not to exceed 2 square P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
  feet in area
Solar structures         P     P     P      P    P       P      P    P    P
Temporary buildings for
uses incidental to
construction work,
including living
quarters for a guard or  C     C     C      C    C       C      C    C    C
night watchman, which
buildings must be
removed upon completion
or abandonment of
construction work
 
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017; Ord. 18-10, 5-8-2018)
8-6A-4: AREA, WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD, HEIGHT AND COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
   Multiple Use       Agricultural Rural Residential
   MU-40 MU-80 MU-160 A-20 A-40    RR-1/2 RR-1 RR-5 RR-10
                         Multiple Use       Agricultural Rural Residential
                         MU-40 MU-80 MU-160 A-20 A-40    RR-1/2 RR-1 RR-5 RR-10
Area regulations:                                                  
  The minimum lot area
  in acres for any main
 use in the districts   40    80    160    20   40      1/2    1    5    10
  regulated by this
  article shall be
Width regulations:                                                 
  The minimum width in
  feet for any lot in
  the districts
  regulated by this
 article, except as     660   1,320 1,320  330  660     120    150  200  330
  modified by planned
  unit developments or
  cluster subdivisions,
  shall be
Frontage regulations:                                              
  The minimum frontage
  in feet for any lot in
  the districts
  regulated by this
 article on a public    60    60    60     60   60      25     25   50   60
  street or a private
  street approved by the
  Governing Body shall
  be
Front yard regulations:                                            
  The minimum depth in
  feet for the front
 yard for main          60    60    60     60   60      30     30   60   60
  buildings in districts
  regulated by this
  article shall be
  Accessory buildings
  may have the same
  minimum front yard
  depth as any buildings
  if they have the same
 side yard required for                            A      A         
  any buildings,
  otherwise they shall
  be set back at least 6
  feet in the rear of
  any building
Rear yard regulations:                                             
  The minimum depth in
  feet for the rear yard
 in the districts                                                 
  regulated by this
  article shall be:
  For main buildings   60    60    60     60   60      30     30   50   60
  For accessory        60    60    60     60   60      3      10   20   60
    buildings
Side yard regulations:                                             
  The minimum side yard
  in feet for any
  dwelling other than
 main or accessory      60    60    60     60   60      10     15   20   25
  buildings in districts
  regulated by this
  article shall be
    and a total width in
  feet of the 2        120   120   120    120  120     20     40   40   50
    required side yards
    of not less than
  Except on corner lots,
 2 front and 2 rear     A     A     A      A    A             A    A    A
  yards are required
  Except on corner lots,
 2 front, 1 side and 1                             A               
  rear yard are required
Height regulations:                                                
  The maximum height for
  all buildings and
 structures in                                                    
  districts regulated by
  this article shall be:
  In feet              35    35    35     35   35      25     35   35   35
  In number of stories 2.5   2.5   2.5    2.5  2.5     2.5    2.5  2.5  2.5
Coverage regulations:                                              
  The maximum coverage
  in percent for any lot
 in the districts                                  25     20   10   5
  regulated by this
  article shall be
 
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE B.  RESIDENTIAL AND MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-6B-1: Purposes
8-6B-2: Codes And Symbols
8-6B-3: Uses
8-6B-4: Area, Width, Frontage, Yard, Height And Coverage Regulations
8-6B-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of the residential and multiple residential districts are:
   A.   Residential District R1-40: To provide areas for large lot residential
neighborhoods of essentially rural or estate character. Minimum lot size: Forty
thousand (40,000) square feet.
   B.   Residential District R1-20: To provide areas for very low density,
single-family residential neighborhoods of essentially spacious and uncrowded
character. Minimum lot size: Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   C.   Residential District R1-12: To provide areas for low density, single-
family residential neighborhoods of spacious and uncrowded character. Minimum
lot size: Twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
   D.   Residential District R1-10: To provide areas for medium low density,
single-family residential neighborhoods where medium costs of development may
occur. Minimum lot size: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   E.   Residential District R1-8: To provide areas for medium low density,
single-family residential neighborhoods where low and medium costs of
development may occur. Minimum lot size: Eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
   F.   Residential District R1-6: To provide areas for low density, single-
family residential neighborhoods where low and medium costs of development may
occur. Minimum lot size: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
   G.   Multiple-Residential District RM-7: To provide areas for low
residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles and
character. Maximum density: Seven (7) dwelling units per net acre.
   H.   Multiple-Residential District RM-15: To provide areas for medium
residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles and
character. Maximum density: Fifteen (15) dwelling units per net acre. (Ord. 17-
16, 7-26-2017)
8-6B-2: CODES AND SYMBOLS:
In the following sections of this article, uses of land or buildings which are
allowed in the various districts are shown as "permitted uses", indicated by a
"P" in the appropriate column, or as "conditional uses", indicated by a "C" in
the appropriate column. If a use is not allowed in a given district, it is
either not named in the use list or it is indicated in the appropriate column
by a blank cell. If a regulation applies in a given district, it is indicated
in the appropriate column by a numeral to show the linear or square feet
required, or by the letter "A". If the regulation does not apply, it is
indicated in the appropriate column by a blank cell. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6B-3: USES:  No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be        hereafter structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained in the residential and multiple-residential districts, except as
provided in this article.
   Residential                       Multiple- Residential
   R1-40 R1-20 R1-12 R1-10 R1-8 R1-6 RM-7 RM-15
                        Residential                       Multiple- Residential
                        R1-40 R1-20 R1-12 R1-10 R1-8 R1-6 RM-7 RM-15
Accessory buildings and
uses customarily        P     P     P     P     P    P    P    P
incidental to the
permitted uses
Accessory uses and
buildings customarily   C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
incidental to the
conditional uses
Agriculture, the
tilling of the soil,
the raising of crops,   P     P     P     P     P    P    P    P
horticulture and
gardening
Child daycare or        C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
nursery
Cluster subdivision of
single-family
dwellings; provided,
that the residential                                     
density is not
increased to allow more
than 1 dwelling for
each:
  30,000 square feet  C                                 
  15,000 square feet       C                            
  8,000 square feet             C                       
  7,000 square feet                  C                  
  6,000 square feet                       C             
  4,000 square feet                           C    C    C
  and that the total
  area of the
  subdivision cluster
  be not less than 5
  acres, and that at
  least 1/3 of the
 total area of the     A     A     A     A     A    A    A    A
  subdivision be
  reserved or dedicated
  as permanent open
  space for common use
  of the residents,
  under development
  approval
Dwellings:                                               
 Four-family dwelling                              C    C
  Groups of dwellings
 each approved as a                                C    C
  planned unit
  development
 Multiple-family                                   C    C
  dwelling
 Single-family         P     P     P     P     P    P    P    P
  dwelling
 Three-family dwelling                             C    C
 Two-family dwelling                               P    P
  Two-family dwelling
 on corner lots                                    A    A
  requires 2 front and
  2 rear yards
Home occupation         C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
Hospital; medical or
dental clinic accessory
to a hospital and                                       C
located on the same
premises
Household pets          P     P     P     P     P    P    P    P
Mobile home                                              
developments:
 Mobile home parks                                      
 Mobile home                                            
  subdivisions
Power generation:                                        
 Large wind energy                                      
  system
 Minor wind energy     P     P     C     C     C    C    C    C
  system
 Small wind energy                                      
  system
Private educational
institution having a
curriculum similar to   C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
that ordinarily given
in public schools
Private recreational
grounds and facilities,
not open to the general C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
public, and to which no
admission charge is
made
Public and quasi-public                                  
buildings and uses:
 Cemetery                                               
 Church                C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
 Essential service     C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
  facilities
 Golf course           C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
  Substations or
 transmission lines of C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
  50 kV or greater
  capacity
Quarries, gravel pits,                                   
land excavations
Residential accessory
building built
simultaneously or after A     A     A     A     A    A    A    A
residential dwellings
(must have permit for
both if built before)
Signs:                                                   
  1 civic sign, not to
 exceed 16 square feet P     P                       P    P
  in sign area
  1 development sign,
 not to exceed 8       P     P     P     P     P    P    P    P
  square feet in area
  1 real estate sign,
 not to exceed 8       P     P     P     P     P    P    P    P
  square feet in area
  1 residential sign,
  not to exceed 4
  square feet in area
  for the resident of a
  building, and 1
 residential sign, not P     P     P     P     P    P    P    P
  to exceed 8 square
  feet for name and
  address of a
  multiple-family
  residential building
  All such signs shall
 be located on the     A     A     A     A     A    A    A    A
  property to which
  they pertain
  Civic and residential
  signs may be
  illuminated, but the
  source of
  illumination shall
 not be visible. No    A     A     A     A     A    A    A    A
  flashing or
  intermittent
  illumination shall be
  employed, and the
  other signs shall not
  be illuminated
  Identification sign,
 sign for conditional  C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C
  use
Solar structures        P     P     P     P     P    P    P    P
 
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 18-10, 5-8-2018)
8-6B-4: AREA, WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD, HEIGHT AND COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
   Residential                       Multiple- Residential
   R1-40 R1-20 R1-12 R1-10 R1-8 R1-6 RM-7 RM-15
                        Residential                       Multiple- Residential
                        R1-40 R1-20 R1-12 R1-10 R1-8 R1-6 RM-7 RM-15
Area regulations:                                    
  The minimum lot area
  in square feet for
  any single-family
 dwelling structure in 40    20    12    10    8    6    7    8
  the districts
  regulated by this
  article shall be (in
  thousands)
  The additional lot
  area for each
 additional dwelling                               6    2.5
  unit in a dwelling
  structure shall be
  (in thousands)
  For group dwellings,
  each separate
  dwelling structure
  after the first
 dwelling structure                                5    2.5
  and each additional
  dwelling structure in
  square feet shall
  have (in thousands)
  Minimum lot area for
  all main uses or
 buildings other than  40    20    12    10    10   10   10   10
  dwellings shall be
  (in thousands)
Width regulations:                                   
  The minimum width in
  feet for any lot in
  the districts
  regulated by this
 article, except as    120   100   80    80    70   60   70   70
  modified by planned
  unit developments or
  cluster subdivisions,
  shall be
Frontage regulations:
  The minimum frontage
  in feet for any lot
  in the districts
  regulated by this
 article on a public   60    50    45    45    40   40   45   45
  street or a private
  street approved by
  the Governing Body
  shall be
Front yard regulations:                              
  The minimum depth in
  feet for the front
  yard for main
 buildings in          30    30    30    30    25   25   25   25
  districts regulated
  by this article shall
  be
Rear yard regulations:                               
  The minimum depth in
  feet for the rear
 yard in the districts                              
  regulated by this
  article shall be:
  For main buildings  30    30    30    30    6    20   30   20
  For accessory       3     3     3     3     3    3    3    3
    buildings
  Provided, that on
  corner lots which
  rear on a side yard
 of another lot, all   A     A     A     A     A    A    A    A
  such districts shall
  be located not closer
  than 10 feet to such
  side yard
Side yard regulations:                               
  The minimum side yard
  in feet for any
 dwelling in districts 15    10    10    10    10   10   10   10
  regulated by this
  article shall be
    and the total width
  of the 2 required   30    24    22    18    16   16   18   18
    side yards
    except that in no
    case shall the
    total width of the
  2 side yards be     A     A     A     A     A    A    A    A
    less than the
    height of the
    building
  Other main buildings
 shall have a minimum  20    20    20    15    15   15   20   20
  side yard of
    and a total width
  of the 2 required   40    40    40    30    30   30   40   40
    side yards of not
    less than
  The minimum side yard
 for a private garage  15    10    10    8     6    6    6    6
  shall be
    except that private
    garages and other
    accessory buildings
  located at least 6  3     3     3     3     3    3    3    3
    feet in the rear of
    the main building
    may have a minimum
    side yard of
    provided, that no
    private garage or
    other accessory
  buildings shall be  15    10    10    10    10   10   10   10
    located closer in
    feet to a dwelling
    on an adjacent lot
    than
  On corner lots, the
  side yard in feet
  which faces on a
 street for both main  20    20    20    20    20   20   20   20
  and accessory
  buildings shall be
  not less than
    or the average of
    existing buildings,
  but in no case      15    15    15    15    15   15   15   15
    shall the side yard
    be less in feet
    than
  nor be required to  25    25    25    25    25   25   25   25
    be more than
  Any garage or carport
  opening which faces
 onto a street shall   30    30    30    30    25   25   25   25
  be set back from the
  street line in feet
  at least
Height regulations:
  The maximum height
  for all buildings and
 structures in                                      
  districts regulated
  by this article shall
  be:
  In feet             35    35    35    35    35   35   35   55
  In number of        2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5
    stories
Coverage regulations:
  The maximum coverage
  in percent for any
 lot in the districts  20    20    30    35    35   35   35   50
  regulated by this
  article shall be
 
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE C.  COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-6C-1: Purposes
8-6C-2: Codes And Symbols
8-6C-3: Uses
8-6C-4: Height, Area, Width, Frontage, Yard, Coverage Regulations; Special
Provisions
8-6C-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of the commercial and industrial districts are:
   A.   Neighborhood Commercial District CN: To provide areas in appropriate
locations where convenience buying outlets may be established to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. The regulations of this district are
designed to promote a combination of retail and service facilities which in
character and scale are necessary to meet day to day needs of area residents.
   B.   Shopping Commercial District CS: To provide areas in appropriate
locations where a combination of businesses, commercial, entertainment and
related activities may be established, maintained and protected. The
regulations of this district are designed to promote and encourage the
development of comparison shopping centers.
   C.   Highway Commercial District CH: To provide areas in appropriate
locations adjacent to highways or major streets where activities dependent upon
or catering to thoroughfare traffic and the traveling public may be
established, maintained and protected. The regulations of this district are
designed to encourage harmony between traffic needs and centers for retail
commercial, entertainment, automotive facilities, and other appropriate highway
related activities.
   D.   General Commercial District CG: To provide areas in appropriate
locations where a combination of business, commercial, entertainment and
related activities may be established, maintained, and protected. Regulations
of this district are designed to provide a suitable environment for those
commercial and service uses which are vital to economic life, but some of which
would be intrusive and disruptive in a shopping center type of commercial
development.
   E.   Manufacturing-Distribution District MD: To provide areas in appropriate
locations where light manufacturing, industrial processes and warehousing not
producing objectionable effects may be established, maintained and protected.
The regulations of this district are designed to protect environmental quality
of the district and adjacent areas.
   F.   General Industrial District MG: To provide for areas in appropriate
locations where heavy industrial processes necessary to the economy may be
conducted. The regulations of this district are designed to protect
environmental quality of the district and adjacent areas. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-6C-2: CODES AND SYMBOLS:
In the following sections of this article, uses of land or buildings which are
allowed in the various districts are shown as "permitted uses", indicated by a
"P" in the appropriate column, or as "conditional uses", indicated by a "C" in
the appropriate column. If a use is not allowed in a given district, it is
either not named in the use list or it is indicated in the appropriate column
by a blank cell. If a regulation applies in a given district, it is indicated
in the appropriate column by a numeral to show the linear or square feet
required, or by the letter "A". If the regulation does not apply, it is
indicated in the appropriate column by a blank cell. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6C-3: USES: 
No building, structure or land shall be used, and no building or structure
shall be      hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained
in the commercial and industrial districts except as provided in this article.
   CN CS CH CG MD MG
                                                              CN CS CH CG MD MG
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the    C  C  C  C  C  C
conditional uses
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the    P  P  P  P  P  P
permitted uses
Agriculture:                                                             
 Agricultural industries                                         C  C  C  C
 The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture P  P  P  P  P  P
  and gardening
Automobile sales and services:                                           
  Automatic car wash; automobile and recreation vehicle
 sales, lease, rental or repair, new or used, conducted      C  C  C  P  P  P
  outdoors; automobile repair garage
  Automobile or recreation vehicle sale, service, lease,
 rental and repair, new or used, conducted entirely within     P  P  P     
  an enclosed building; auto parts, indoor
  Parking lot incidental to a use conducted on the premises P  P  P  P  P  P
  Parking lot not incidental to a use conducted on the      C  C  C  C  C  C
    premises
 Automobile service station                                  C  C  C  C  C  C
  Body and fender shop; tire recapping; motor vehicle,
 bicycle and recreation vehicle assembly, painting,              C  C  P  P
  upholstering and rebuilding
Dwellings and other living quarters:                                     
 Hotel; motel                                                  P  P  P     
 Recreational vehicle park                                     C  C  C     
 Yurts                                                         C  C  C     
Power generation:                                                        
 Large wind energy system                                    C  C  C  C  C  C
 Minor wind energy system                                    P  P  P  P  P  P
 Small wind energy system                                    C  C  C  C  C  C
Processing and manufacturing:                                            
 Bag cleaning                                                        P  P
 Baking, ice cream making, and/or candy making               C  C  C  C  P  P
 Blacksmith shop                                                     P  P
 Boiler works                                                        P  P
 Bookbinding                                                   C  C  P  P  P
 Bottling works                                                      P  P
 Breweries                                                     C      C  C
 Cement, mortar, plaster, or paving materials, central                 C
  mixing plant, related to construction industry
 Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the            C  P  P
  premises
 Dairy                                                             C  P  P
 Egg candling, sales or processing                                 P  P  P
  Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacture, processing
 and/or sales, providing only nonanimal products and                 C  C
  byproducts are used
 Forage plant                                                        P  P
 Foundry, casting light weight, nonferrous metal                     C  P
 Hatchery                                                          C  P  P
 Honey extraction                                                  P  P  P
 Incinerator, nonaccessory                                           C  C
 Knitting mill                                                     C  P  P
 Laboratories                                                  C  C  C  C  C
 Laundry                                                         C  P  P  P
 Machine shop                                                      C  P  P
  Manufacture, curing, compounding, processing, packaging and
 treatment of fish, sauerkraut, pickles, vinegar, yeast and            C
  rendering of fat
 Manufacture, curing, compounding, processing, packaging and            
  treatment of the following:
  Baker goods, batteries                                          C  C  C
  Candy, cereal, cosmetics                                        C  C  C
  Dairy products                                                  C  C  C
  Food products (excluding fish, sauerkraut, pickles,             C  C  C
    vinegar, yeast, and rendering of fat)
  Lubrication grease                                              C  C  C
  Meat products                                                   C  C  C
  Oil                                                             C  C  C
  Pharmaceuticals                                                 C  C  C
  Toiletries                                                      C  C  C
  Manufacture, fabrication, assembly, canning, compounding,
 packaging, processing, treatment, storage and/or                       
  maintenance of the following:
  Airplane and parts, automobiles and parts, alcohol                C  P
  Brass                                                             C  P
  Candles, cans, cameras, photo equipment, including film,          C  P
    cast stone products, copper
  Dyestuffs                                                         C  P
  Emery cloth, excelsior                                            C  P
  Glass, glucose, gypsum                                            C  P
  Hair, hardware                                                    C  P
  Ink, iron                                                         C  P
  Lampblack, linoleum, lime                                         C  P
  Machinery, malt, matches, meats, musical instruments              C  P
  Novelties                                                         C  P
  Oilcloth, oiled rubber goods, oxygen                              C  P
  Paper, paint, pulp, pickles, pottery, incidental plaster,         C  P
    plaster of Paris, plastics
  Salt, sheet metal, shellac, shoddy, shoe polish, soap,            C  P
    detergents, soda, starch, steel
  Terra cotta, tile, toys, turpentine                               C  P
  Varnish, vinegar                                                  C  P
  Yeast                                                             C  P
 Manufacture/maintenance of the following:                              
  Boats, business machines                                      C  C  P  P
  Cameras, photo equipment                                      C  C  P  P
  Electric or neon signs, billboards, and/or commercial         C  C  P  P
    advertising structures
    Light sheet metal products including heating and
  ventilation ducts and equipment, cornices and eaves,          C  C  P  P
    venetian blinds, window shades, awning
  Musical instruments                                           C  C  P  P
  Novelties                                                     C  C  P  P
  Rubber and metal stamps                                       C  C  P  P
  Toys                                                          C  C  P  P
  Manufacture of brick, clay, ceramic, cinder, concrete,
  synthetic, cast stone, plastic and pumice stone products,
  including, in addition, manufacture or fabrication of
  building blocks. Tile or pipe from raw materials for use in
 building construction or for sewer or drainage purposes,            C  C
  and excluding rock or gravel crushing of raw materials,
  except that which is incidental to the manufacture or
  fabrication of the above described products, and provided
  that such crushing facilities be located not closer than
  200 feet to any property line
  Manufacturing, compounding, assembling and treatment of
 articles of merchandise from the following previously                  
  prepared materials:
  Bone                                                              C  C
  Cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork                                   C  C
  Feathers                                                          C  C
  Hair, horn                                                        C  C
  Leather                                                           C  C
  Paper, paint, plastics, precious or semiprecious stone,           C  C
    or metals
  Rubber                                                            C  C
  Shell, straw                                                      C  C
  Textiles, tobacco                                                 C  C
  Wood, wool                                                        C  C
 Manufacturing, processing, refining, treatment, distilling,            
  storage, or compounding of the following:
  Acid, ammonia, asphalt, acetylene gas                               C
  Bleaching powder and chlorine, bones                                C
  Chemicals of an objectionable or dangerous nature, coal             C
    creosote
  Disinfectants                                                       C
  Explosives                                                          C
  Fireworks                                                           C
  Gas, gelatin or size, glue, grease or lard                          C
  Hides                                                               C
  Insecticides                                                        C
  Metals crushing                                                     C
  Ore                                                                 C
  Petroleum, plastics, potash, pyroxylin                              C
  Roofing, or waterproofing material, rubber, or gutta-               C
    percha
  Tallow, tar                                                         C
  Wood                                                                C
 Mobile lunch agency                                           C  C  P  P  P
 Monument works                                                    C  P  P
 Motion picture studio                                           C  C  P  P
 Planing mill                                                        C  P
 Printing convenience for drop-in customers                    C  C  P  P  P
 Publishing and contract printing                                C  P  P  P
 Rock crusher                                                        C  C
 Sandblasting                                                        C  C
 Sawmill                                                             C  C
 Tire retreading or vulcanizing                                    C  P  P
 Upholstering, including mattress manufacture, rebuilding or     C  P  P  P
  renovating
 Uses which follow, provided they are located at least 300              
  feet from any district boundary:
  Animal byproducts, plants, offal or dead animal reduction           C
    or dumping
  Blast furnace                                                       C
  Fat rendering, fertilizer and soil conditioner, foundry             C
  Garbage or refuse maintenance or disposal site, gravel              C
    pits, quarries
 Weaving                                                       C  C  C  P  P
 Welding shop                                                    C  C  P  P
Public and quasi-public:                                                 
 Cemetery                                                        C  C  C  C
 Churches                                                    C  C  C  C  C  C
 Parks, golf courses, swimming pools, and other recreation   P  P  P  P  P  P
  areas
 Public buildings                                            C  C  C  C  C  C
 Private schools                                             C  C  C  C  C   
 Radio/television transmitting towers                                C  P
Recreation, commercial:                                                  
 Archery shop/range, if conducted in enclosed building       C  C  C  P  C  C
 Athletic club; health club, athletic goods store            C  P  P  P  P  C
 Bicycle shop                                                P  P  P  P  P   
 Billiards or pool hall, swimming pool, skating rink         C  P  P  P  C  C
 Bowling alley, boxing arena                                     C  C  C  C
 Campground                                                      C  C  C   
 Dance hall, dancing                                           C  C  C  C   
 Drag strip racing                                                   C  C
 Go-cart racing                                                      C  C
 Golf course, miniature golf                                 P  P  P  P  P  P
 Gymnasium                                                   C  P  P  P  P  C
 Nightclub/social club                                         C  C  C  C   
 Recreation center, commercial                               C  C  C  P  C  C
 Recreation vehicles rental-lease, sales and service         C  C  C  P  P  P
 Recreational vehicle parks                                    C  C  C  C   
 Theater, indoor                                             C  C  C  P  C   
 Theater, outdoor                                              C  C  C  C  C
Sales and related services:                                              
 Air conditioning, ventilating equipment, sales/repair         C  C  P  P  C
 Art needlework shop                                         P  P  P  P     
 Art shop and/or supply                                      P  P  P  P     
 Awning sales/repair                                           P  C  P  C  C
 Bakery, retail sales                                        P  P  P  P  C  C
 Beer outlet, Class A, Class B                                 C  C  C     
 Bookstore                                                   P  P  P  P     
 Bookstore, adult                                                    C   
 Building material sales, enclosed                             C  C  C  P  P
  Building material sales yard with sale of rock, sand,
  gravel and the like as an incidental part of the main
 business, but excluding concrete mixing, except as such           C  P  P
  concrete mixing is necessary in preparation and manufacture
  of any products specified in this section
 Cafe, cafeteria, catering establishment                     P  P  P  P  C  C
 Candy, confectionery, nut shop                              P  P  P  P  C  C
 Carbonated water sales                                        P  P  P     
 China and/or silver shop                                    P  P  P  P     
 Clothing store                                              P  P  P  P  C  C
 Coal/fuel sales office                                      C  C  C  P  P  C
 Delicatessen                                                P  P  P  P  C  C
 Department store                                              P  P  P     
 Drapery/curtain store                                       C  P  P  P  C  C
 Drive-ins, refreshment stand, eating and/or drinking place  C  C  C  C  C  C
 Drugstore                                                   P  P  P  P     
 Dry goods store                                             C  P  C  P  C   
 Electrical, heating appliances and fixtures, sales/repair/  C  P  P  P  C   
  service
 Electronics sales and repair                                P  P  C  P  C  C
 Floor covering sales                                        P  P  P  P  C   
 Florist shop                                                P  P  P  P     
 Fountain equipment supply                                         P  P   
 Fruit/fruit juice store, fruit and/or vegetable stand, or   P  P  P  P     
  store
 Fur sales, storage, repair                                    P    P  C   
 Furniture sales, and/or repair                              C  P  C  P  C   
 Gift shop, hobby or crafts shop                             P  P  P  P     
 Greenhouse, nursery, plant materials, soil/lawn service       P  P  P  P   
 Grocery, meat sales                                         P  P  P  P  C  C
 Gunsmith                                                      P  C  P     
 Hardware store                                              C  P  P  P  P   
 Health food store                                           P  P  P  P     
 Hobby and/or craft shop                                     P  P  P  P     
 Hospital supplies                                             C  C  P  P   
 Ice cream shop                                              P  P  P  P  P   
 Ice manufacture, storage, and retail/wholesale sales        C  C  C  P  P  P
 Insulation sales                                                  P  P  P
 Jewelry stores                                              P  P  P  P     
 Laundry, automatic self-help, laundry agency                P  P  P  P  C   
 Leather goods, luggage sales                                P  P  P  P  C  C
 Linen shop                                                  P  P  P  P     
 Liquor and beer sales, places for the drinking of liquor or   C  C  C  C   
  beer
 Lumberyard                                                        C  P  P
 Military surplus store                                      C  C  C  C  C  C
 Milk distributing station, sale of dairy products,          P  P  P  P     
  excluding processing/bottling
 Monument sales, retail                                          P  P  P  P
 Motorboat sales                                             C  C  C  P  P  P
 Music store                                                 P  P  C  P     
 Notions                                                     P  P  P  P     
 Novelty shop                                                  P  P  P     
 Oil burner shop                                               P    P  P   
 Ornamental iron, sales only                                 C  P  C  P  P  C
 Package agency                                                C  C  C  C   
 Painter/paint store                                         C  P  P  P  P   
 Pet shop                                                    P  P    P     
 Photographer or photography shop, sales and service         P  P  P  P     
 Plumbing shop                                               C  P  P  P  P   
 Popcorn and/or nut shop                                     P  P  P  P  C  C
 Radio and television station                                      C  C  P
 Restaurant                                                  P  P  P  P  C  C
 Roofing sales                                               C  P  P  P  P   
 Secondhand shop, antiques, conducted within a building or   C  P  C  P  P   
  enclosure
 Seed/feed store                                                 C  P  P  P
 Sewing machine shop                                         P  P  P  P  C   
 Shoe shop, shoeshine, shoe repair                           P  P  C  P     
 Stationery and greeting card sales                          P  P  P  P     
 Tire shop                                                   C  P  P  P  C  C
 Tobacco shop                                                C  P  P  P     
 Variety store                                               P  P  P  P     
 Wallpaper store                                             C  P  P  P  P   
 Wholesale business                                            C    P  P  P
Service activities:                                                      
 Animal hospital                                                 C  C  C  C
 Baby formula service, baby diaper service, sitter agency    P  P  P  P     
 Bank                                                        P  P  P  P  P   
 Barbershop                                                  P  P  P  P  C   
 Bath and massage                                              P  P  P     
 Beauty shop                                                 P  P  P  P     
 Carpet and/or rug cleaning                                        P  P   
 Clothes cleaning, dyeing, pressing                          P  P  P  P  P  P
 Costume rental                                              C  P  C  P  P   
 Dramatics school                                            C  C  C  C  C   
 Electric appliances and/or electronic instruments service     P    P  P   
 Employment agency or employment office                        P  P  P  P   
 Fix-it shop, repair shop, household items                     P  P  P  P   
 Flooring, floor repair shop                                   P    P  P   
 Frozen food lockers                                           C  C  P  P   
 Household cleaning/repair, house equipment displays           P    P  P   
 Interior decorating store                                   P  P  P  P     
 Janitorial service                                          P  P    P  P   
 Kennel                                                        C    C  C  C
 Key and lock service                                          P  C  P  P   
 Medical/dental clinic, laboratories                         C  P  C  P  C   
 Mortuary                                                      C  C  C  C   
 Nurses' agency                                              P  P    P     
 Office, business or professional                            C  P    P  P   
 Office, supply, office machines sales, repair                 P    P  P   
 Optometrist, and/or oculist                                 P  P    P     
 Pest extermination business                                 C  P    C  C  C
 Printing and small paper reproduction service               P  P  C  P  P   
 Printing, including engraving, photo engraving                  C  P  P   
 Reception center and/or wedding chapel                      C  C  C  C     
 Sign painting shop                                            C    P  P   
 Tailor shop                                                 P  P    P     
 Taxidermist                                                   P    P  P   
 Towel and linen supply service                                P    P  P   
 Travel bureau                                               C  P  P  P  P   
 Upholstery shop                                             C  C  C  P  P   
 Veterinary                                                      C  C  C  C
Signs:                                                                   
 Advertising signs, not exceeding 132 square feet in area or           C
  25 feet in height may be allowed by the Planning Commission
  Business signs, not to exceed a total of 1 square foot of
  sign area for each 1 linear foot of business building
 frontage; no such sign to exceed 50 square feet in area and P  P  P  P  P  P
  not more than 3 signs for any 1 business; all such signs to
  be flat wall or freestanding signs; no such sign to be
  revolving or to have flashing or intermittent lighting
  Business signs permitted above herein may be allowed as
 pole signs not to exceed 25 feet in height and 100 square       C  C  C  C
  feet in total area by the Planning Commission
  The following nonadvertising signs, subject to the
  limitations stated. All such signs may be lighted but shall
  have no flashing or intermittent light and shall not
 revolve or have lighted moving parts. Such signs to be flat            
  wall signs or pole signs but no such signs shall project
  above the eaves or parapet wall of the building on the
  premises to which it is appurtenant. The maximum sign area
  may be used in not more than 3 signs.
  Civic, maximum 14 square feet                             P  P  P  P  P  P
  Development, maximum 40 square feet                       P  P  P  P  P  P
  Other, maximum 8 square feet                              P  P  P  P  P  P
  Real estate, maximum 16 square feet                       P  P  P  P  P  P
  Residential, personal nameplate, maximum 2 square feet    P  P  P  P  P  P
Solar structures                                              P  P  P  P  P  P
Storage and warehousing:                                                 
 Boat and recreational vehicle storage                           P  P     
 Coal, fuel and wood yards                                       C  C  P  P
 Contractors' equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of  C  P  P       
  equipment used by contractors
 Garage, public                                                C  C  P  P  P
 Junkyard                                                            C  C
 Warehouse                                                     C    C  P  P
Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
including living quarters for a guard or night watchman,      C  C  C  C  C  C
which buildings must be removed upon completion or
abandonment of the construction work
Transportation:                                                          
 Bus terminal                                                  C  C  P  P   
 Draying, freighting, or trucking yard or terminal               C  C  P  P
 Express shipping office                                     C  P  P  P  P  P
 Railroad yards, shop and/or roundhouse for railroads                P  P
 Taxi stand                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P
 Terminal, parking and maintenance facilities                C  C  C  C  C  C
 Transfer company                                                C  C  P  P
 Transfer company, provided trucks no larger than 2 tons       C  C  P  P  P
  capacity are used
 Truck stop and service facilities                               P  C  P  P
 
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
8-6C-4: HEIGHT, AREA, WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD, COVERAGE REGULATIONS; SPECIAL
PROVISIONS:
   CN CS CH CG MD MG
                                                              CN CS CH CG MD MG
Height regulations:                                                      
 The maximum height for all buildings and structures in                 
  districts regulated by this article shall be:
  In feet                                                   35 45 45 75 75 75
  In number of stories                                      2  3  3  7  7  7
Area, width, frontage, yard and coverage regulations:                    
  Any parcel larger than 1 acre at the time of passage of
 this article may be divided or developed only under planned A  A  A  A  A  A
  unit development approval
  Regulations as may be required by conditional use permit or
  by planned unit development approval, except that no
 commercial building shall be located closer than 15 feet to A  A  A  A  A  A
  any residential district boundary line or to any street
  line which continues as frontage into a residential
  district
  Except as may be allowed through a planned unit development
 approval, buildings and structures may cover no more        30 30 30 50 50 50
  percentage of the lot area than
Special provisions:                                                      
  Any area outside of a building used for any activity other
  than off street parking and loading shall be completely
 enclosed within a solid fence or wall of a height                   A   
  sufficient to completely screen such activity from the
  street or from adjoining parcels
  All uses shall be conducted from enclosed buildings except
  automobile service stations, automatic car wash, automobile
  and recreational coach or vehicle sales, lease, rental or
 repair, off street parking and loading, plant material      A           
  nurseries, outdoor restaurants, and commercial recreation,
  unless otherwise permitted by planned unit development or
  conditional use permit
 Not more than 20 percent of the building shall be used for  A           
  wholesale business
 
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE D.  CENTRAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT CD
SECTION:
8-6D-1: Purpose
8-6D-2: Permitted Uses
8-6D-3: Conditional Uses
8-6D-4: Special Provisions
8-6D-5: Area, Width, Frontage, Yard, Coverage, Height Regulations
8-6D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide areas in appropriate locations for
high intensity public, quasi- public, commercial, office and multiple-family
uses which may center in harmonious relationships based on planned development
for mutual benefit. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6D-2: PERMITTED USES:
None. All uses require conditional use permits. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
All uses allowed in the CN, CS, CH and CG Districts are conditional uses in the
CD District. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6D-4: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: Any parcel located in a Central Development District that is
larger than one (1) acre at the time of passage of this article may be divided
or developed only under planned unit development approval. No new lot smaller
than one (1) acre may be created.
   B.   Considerations: Every conditional use permit and every planned unit
development approval shall be based primarily on how the development, as
proposed in the application, will contribute to compatibility and mutual
private and public benefit from existing, proposed and potential buildings and
uses in the area; the efficient, effective and aesthetic use of land,
buildings, landscaping and amenities; and the improvements to be made in land
use, building construction and appearance, traffic safety and control,
landscaping and drainage. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-6D-5: AREA, WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD, COVERAGE, HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The area, width, frontage, yard, coverage and height regulations are to be
determined by conditional use permit or planned unit development approval.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
8-7-1: Introduction
8-7-2: Purpose
8-7-3: Defined
8-7-4: Planned Unit Development Permit
8-7-5: Required Conditions
8-7-6: Site Plan Requirements
8-7-7: Planning Commission Action
8-7-8: Construction Limitations
8-7-9: Public Hearing
8-7-10: Fees
8-7-1: INTRODUCTION:
Provision of a planned unit development by this chapter in no way guarantees a
property owner the right to exercise the provisions of the planned unit
development. Planned unit developments shall be approved by the Planning
Commission only if in its judgment the proposed planned unit development fully
meets the intent and purpose and requirements of this title. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the planned unit development is to allow diversification in the
relationship of various uses and structures to their sites and to permit more
flexibility in the use of such sites. The application of planned unit concepts
is intended to encourage good neighborhood, housing or area design, thus
ensuring substantial compliance with the intent of the district regulations and
other provisions of this title related to the public health, safety and general
welfare and, at the same time, securing the advantages of large scale site
planning for residential, commercial, industrial, mountain and recreational
developments, or combinations thereof. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-7-3: DEFINED:
"Planned unit development", for the purpose of this title, shall mean an
integrated design for development of residential, commercial, industrial or
recreational uses, or combination of such uses, in which one (1) or more of the
regulations, other than use regulations of the district in which the
development is to be situated, is waived or varied to allow flexibility and
initiative in site and building design and location, in accordance with an
approved plan and imposed general requirements as specified in this article. A
planned unit development may be:
   A.   The development of compatible land uses arranged in such a way as to
provide desirable living environments that may include private and common open
spaces for recreation, circulation and/or aesthetic uses;
   B.   The conservation or development of desirable amenities not otherwise
possible by typical development standards;
   C.   Creation of areas for multiple use that are of benefit to the
neighborhood or environment of the area. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-7-4: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Required: Planned unit developments may be allowed by Planning
Commission approval of any zoning district. An approved planned unit
development shall consist of an official planned unit form approved by the
Planning Commission and signed by its Chairperson, and an approved site plan
also signed by the Chairperson of the Planning Commission. Denial of a planned
unit development shall also be indicated on the official form. A planned unit
development permit shall not be granted unless the planned unit development
meets the use limitations of the zoning district in which it is to be located
and meets the density and other limitations of such districts.
   B.   Subdivision Provisions Applicable: Compliance with the regulations of
this title in no sense excuses the developer from the application requirements
of the subdivision ordinance, except as modifications thereof are specifically
authorized in the approval of the application for the planned unit development.
   C.   Scope Of Permit: The permit shall be considered in two (2) parts:
      1.   Preliminary approval subject to the public hearing provisions of
this article; and
      2.   Final approval based on construction drawings and specifications in
general accord with the granted preliminary approval. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-7-5: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Area: No planned unit development shall have an area of less than one
(1) acre.
   B.   Uses; Amendment Of Zoning District: A planned unit development which
will contain uses not permitted in the zoning district in which it is to be
located will require a change of zoning district and shall be accompanied by an
application for a zoning amendment, except that any residential use shall be
considered a permitted use in planned unit development which allows residential
use and shall be governed by design and other requirements of the planned unit
development permit. Hotels, motels, lodges, mobile home parks, etc., shall not
be considered residential uses for the purpose of this article.
   C.   Ownership: The development shall be in single, partnership or corporate
ownership, or under option to purchase by an individual or a corporate entity
at the time of application or the application shall be filed jointly by all
owners of the property.
   D.   Arrangement: The Planning Commission shall require such arrangements of
structures and open spaces within the site development plan as necessary to
assure that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected.
      1.   Height and intensity of buildings and uses shall be arranged around
the boundaries of the planned unit development to be compatible with existing
adjacent developments or zones. However, unless conditions of the site so
warrant, buildings located on the periphery of the development shall be limited
to a maximum height of two (2) stories.
      2.   Lot area, lot width, yard and coverage regulations shall be
determined by approval of the site plan.
      3.   Density of dwelling units per acre shall be the same as allowed in
the zone in which the planned unit development is located.
   E.   Required Open Space: Preservation, maintenance and ownership of
required open space within the development shall be accomplished by:
      1.   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system; or
      2.   Granting to the County a permanent, open space easement on or over
the said private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remains
perpetually in recreational use with ownership and maintenance being the
responsibility of the owner or an owners' association established with articles
of association and bylaws which are satisfactory to the County; and
      3.   Complying with the provisions of the Condominium Ownership Act, Utah
Code Annotated title 57, chapter 8, as amended, which provides for the payment
of common expenses for the upkeep of the common areas and facilities.
   F.   Landscaping, Fencing, Screening: Landscaping, fencing and screening
related to the uses within the site and as a means of integrating the proposed
development into its surroundings shall be planned and presented to the
Planning Commission for approval, together with other required plans for the
development.
   G.   Signs; Lighting: The size, location, design and nature of signs, if
any, and the intensity and direction of area of floodlighting shall be detailed
in the application.
   H.   Grading, Drainage Plan: A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission with the application. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-7-6: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant shall submit a planned unit development plan for the total area
within the proposed development. If the planned unit development is to be
developed on a phase basis, each phase shall be of such size, composition and
arrangement that its construction, marketing and operation is feasible as a
unit independent of any subsequent phases. Final approval shall be given to
only one (1) phase at a time. The general site plan shall show where pertinent:
   A.   The use or uses, dimensions, sketch elevations and locations of
proposed structures.
   B.   Dimensions and locations of areas to be reserved and developed for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, parking, public uses, such as schools and
playgrounds, landscaping and other open spaces.
   C.   Architectural drawings and sketches outlining the general design and
character of the proposed uses and the physical relationship of the uses.
   D.   Such other pertinent information, including, but not limited to,
residential density, coverage and open space characteristics shall be included
as may be necessary to make a determination that the contemplated arrangement
of buildings and uses makes it desirable to apply regulations and requirements
differing from those ordinarily applicable under this title. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-7-7: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
In carrying out the intent of this article, the Planning Commission shall
consider the following principles:
   A.   Design: It is the intent of this article that site and building plans
for a planned unit development shall be prepared by a designer or team of
designers having professional competence in planning as proposed in the
application. The commission may require the applicant to engage such a
qualified designer or design team.
   B.   Control Minimum Necessary: It is not the intent of this section that
control of the design of a planned unit development by the Planning Commission
be so rigidly exercised that individual initiative be stifled and substantial
additional expense incurred; rather, it is the intent of this section that the
control exercised be the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of this
article.
   C.   Decision; Appeal: The Planning Commission may approve or disapprove an
application for a planned unit development. In approving an application, the
commission may attach such conditions as it may deem necessary to secure
compliance with the purposes set forth in section
8-7-5 of this chapter. The action of the Planning Commission may be appealed to
the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-7-8: CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS:
   A.   According To Plans, Specifications: Upon approval of a planned unit
development, construction shall proceed only in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the Planning Commission and in conformity with any
conditions attached by the commission to its approval.
   B.   Amendments: Amendments to approved plans and specifications for a
planned unit development shall be approved by the Planning Commission and shown
on the approved plans.
   C.   Permit Issuance: The building inspector or any other department shall
not issue any permit for any proposed building, structure, activity or uses
within the project unless such building, structure, activity or use is in
accordance with the approved development plan and any conditions imposed in
conjunction with its approval.
   D.   Certificate Of Occupancy: The building inspector shall issue a
certificate of occupancy for any building or structure upon its completion in
accordance with the approved development plan. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-7-9: PUBLIC HEARING:
Preliminary development plans, including site plan (buildings, open space,
parking, landscaping, pedestrian and traffic circulation), building elevations
and general drainage and utility layout with topography shall be submitted for
the purpose of public review. A public hearing shall be held after notice as
required by State Statute. Failure of property owners to receive notice of said
hearing shall in no way affect the validity of action taken. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-7-10: FEES:
See fee schedule established by the Board of County Commissioners for the
planned unit development fee, plus subdivision fee as per lot schedule in this
title. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 8
SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE A.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-8A-1: Short Title
8-8A-2: Purpose
8-8A-3: Authority
8-8A-4: Jurisdiction
8-8A-5: Violation; Penalty
8-8A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the DAGGETT COUNTY SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE and may
be identified within this document as "this chapter" or "the subdivision
ordinance". (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8A-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is established to promote the health, safety and welfare of
residents and to provide for the orderly subdivision of land within the
unincorporated area of the County. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8A-3: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted and authorized under the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated title 17, chapter 27a et seq., as amended. Upon adoption by the Board
of County Commissioners, this title repeals the current subdivision ordinance.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8A-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter shall govern and apply to the subdivision,
platting and recording of all lands lying within the unincorporated area of the
County.
   B.   Compliance: No person shall subdivide any land, nor shall any building
permit be issued for any lot or parcel of land which is located wholly, or in
part, within the unincorporated area of the County, except in compliance with
this chapter, the zoning ordinance, and all applicable local, State and Federal
laws.
   C.   Recording Without Approval: Any plat of a subdivision, or any metes and
bounds subdivision, filed or recorded without the approvals required by this
chapter is void, for the purposes of development or the issuance of a building
permit, as required by Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-601 et seq., as
amended. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8A-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation:
      1.   Any owner or agent of the owner of any land located in a
"subdivision", as defined in section
8-2-3 of this title, who transfers or sells any land located within the
subdivision before the subdivision has been approved and recorded, is guilty of
a violation of this chapter and State law at Utah Code Annotated section 17-
27a-611, as amended, for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
      2.   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument or transfer or
other documents used in the process of selling or transferring does not exempt
the transaction from a violation from the penalties or remedies provided by
this chapter or the laws of the State.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of any section of this chapter is a Class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE B.  CONCEPT PLANS
SECTION:
8-8B-1: Concept Plan Required
8-8B-2: Plan Requirements
8-8B-3: Consideration And Effect Of Plan
8-8B-4: Plan Not Application For Subdivision Approval
8-8B-1: CONCEPT PLAN REQUIRED:
To promote efficiency and an understanding of the subdivision review and
approval process and to allow applicants to present their initial subdivision
proposals to the County, applicants for subdivision approval shall present a
concept plan of the proposed subdivision to the Planning Commission and County
staff for initial review. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8B-2: PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
The concept plan is an informal discussion document only, designed to allow the
identification of policies, procedures, standards and other items that may be
considered in the subdivision review process, once a subdivision application is
received. To achieve these objectives, and to promote the identification of all
items necessary for consideration by the applicant, no specific submission
requirements are identified. However, the applicant should provide and the
Planning Commission and County staff may require, information necessary to
identify the relevant issues affecting the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 17-16,
7-26-2017)
8-8B-3: CONSIDERATION AND EFFECT OF PLAN:
The Planning Commission shall discuss the concept plan with the applicant at a
Planning Commission meeting. At this meeting, the Planning Commission and the
applicant may review the procedure anticipated for subdivision approval, the
goals, objectives and policies of the County General Plan, the applicable
standards of the zoning ordinance, this chapter, and all other applicable
local, State and Federal requirements, and any other matters deemed
appropriate. The Planning Commission shall take no action on a concept plan.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8B-4: PLAN NOT APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   A concept plan shall not constitute an application for subdivision
approval and is in no way binding on the County or the applicant. Any
discussion before the Planning Commission, at the meeting when the concept plan
is discussed, shall not be considered any indication of subdivision approval or
disapproval, either actual or implied.
   B.   An application for subdivision approval shall only be considered filed
with the County upon the submission of all information and materials as
required for a preliminary plat or metes and bounds subdivision, as contained
herein. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE C.  MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8-8C-1: Purpose; Applicability; Statute
8-8C-2: Minor Subdivision Defined
8-8C-3: Concept Plan Required
8-8C-4: Application For Minor Subdivision
8-8C-5: Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services
8-8C-6: Suitability Of Area For Subdivision
8-8C-7: Coordination With Service Providers Required
8-8C-8: Engineering Review Fees
8-8C-9: Planning Commission To Determine Complete Application
8-8C-10: Lack Of Application Information; Incomplete Application
8-8C-11: Approval; Procedures
8-8C-12: Building Permits
8-8C-13: Effective Period Of Approval
8-8C-14: Site Preparation Work Prohibited Before Approval And Recording
8-8C-1: PURPOSE; APPLICABILITY; STATUTE:
   A.   The purpose of these requirements is to facilitate the review and
approval of subdivisions with six (6) or fewer lots and where no area of the
proposed subdivision is traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed road or
street, and when the dedication of any land for a road or street or any other
public purpose is not required.
   B.   Subdivisions, proposing more than six (6) lots or where any area of the
subdivision is traversed by a proposed road or street and where land
dedications are proposed or required, shall not be considered as a minor
subdivision.
   C.   Unless otherwise provided, the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 17-27a-605 shall apply. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-2: MINOR SUBDIVISION DEFINED:
A "minor subdivision" is a subdivision containing six (6) or fewer lots and
where no area of the proposed subdivision is traversed by the mapped lines of a
proposed road or street, or the dedication of any land for a road or street, or
any other public purpose, is not proposed or required. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-3: CONCEPT PLAN REQUIRED:
An application for a minor subdivision shall be initiated by presenting a
concept plan, as required by article B of this chapter. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-4: APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION:
The following information is required for all applications for a minor
subdivision. The applicant may be required to provide other information
required by the Planning Commission or County Commission necessary to evaluate
the merits of the proposed minor subdivision and compliance with this chapter:
   A.   Application; Authorized Signature: A minor subdivision application,
completed and signed by the owner, or authorized agent of the owner, of the
land parcels proposed to be divided.
   B.   Record Of Survey Map:
      1.   A metes and bounds description of the parcels or lots proposed to be
created, and as required by Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-605(3), as
amended, accompanied by the boundaries of each lot or parcel created being
graphically illustrated on a record of survey map, at a convenient scale of not
more than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), or at a scale as
approved by the administrative official. The record of survey map shall be
prepared in pen and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one
(1) sheet is used and shall be of such a size as is acceptable for recordation
in the Office of the County Recorder. One (1) mylar copy of the record of
survey map shall be presented, along with five (5) paper copies. The
administrative official may request additional copies if required.
      2.   The record of survey map, as required, shall be prepared by a
professional land surveyor in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 17-
23-17, as amended, and shall show the following information:
         a.   The location of survey by quarter section and township and range;
         b.   The date of survey;
         c.   The scale of drawing and north point;
         d.   The distance and course of all lines traced or established,
giving the basis of bearing and the distance and course to a section corner or
quarter corner, including township and range, or an identified monument within
a recorded subdivision;
         e.   All measured bearings, angles and distances separately indicated
from those of record;
         f.   A written boundary description of the property surveyed;
         g.   All monuments set and their relation to older monuments found;
         h.   A detailed description of monuments found and monuments set,
indicated separately;
         i.   The surveyor's seal or stamp; and
         j.   The surveyor's business name and address.
      3.   The record of survey map shall contain a written narrative that
explains and identifies:
         a.   The purpose of the survey;
         b.   The basis on which the lines were established; and
         c.   The found monuments and deed elements that controlled the
established or reestablished lines.
      4.   If the narrative is a separate document, it shall contain:
         a.   The location of the survey by quarter section and by township and
range;
         b.   The date of the survey;
         c.   The surveyor's stamp or seal; and
         d.   The surveyor's business name and address.
      5.   The map and narrative shall be referenced to each other if they are
separate documents.
   C.   Agriculture Protection Area: If the minor subdivision is located in
whole or in part within three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of an
agriculture protection area, the owner of the proposed minor subdivision shall
provide notice on the metes and bounds description and record of survey filed
with the County Recorder the following notice:
         Agriculture Protection Area
This property is located in the vicinity of an established agriculture
protection area in which normal agricultural uses and activities have been
afforded the highest priority use status. It can be anticipated that such
agricultural uses and activities may now or in the future be conducted on
property included in the agriculture protection area. The use and enjoyment of
this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or
inconvenience which may result from such normal agricultural uses and
activities.
   D.   Information Required: On the record of survey map, or other map, the
following information shall be provided, as applicable:
      1.   Identification of known natural features, including, but not limited
to, wetlands as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, areas which
would be covered in the event of 100-year floods, all water bodies, floodways
and drainageways, slopes exceeding thirty percent (30%), and any other natural
features as required by the Planning Commission or County Commission, for the
property, including a tabulation of the acres in each.
      2.   Identification of known manmade features, including, but not limited
to, high voltage power lines, high pressure gas lines, hard surfaced roads,
road easements, road rights-of- way, bridges, culverts and drainage channels,
field drains, existing water and sewer trunk lines, all easements, irrigation
ditches, canals and canal easements within and adjacent to the property.
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings, existing property
lines and fence lines.
      4.   Other applicable notes, as required by the Planning Commission or
County Commission.
      5.   A tax clearance from the County Treasurer indicating that all taxes,
interest and penalties owing for the property have been paid.
      6.   Stamped, addressed envelopes of all owners of record of real
property adjoining the parcel of land proposed for the minor subdivision.
      7.   Payment of the nonrefundable administrative processing fee, and a
refundable minor subdivision application fee, as established by resolution by
the County Commission. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-5: EVIDENCE OF AVAILABILITY OF NECESSARY SERVICES:
In addition to the information required in section
8-8C-4 of this article, the following information is required to be presented
as part of the minor subdivision application, necessary to establish the
availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision:
   A.   Water Requirements:
      1.   Hauling Water Prohibited: All minor subdivision applications shall
meet the water and sewage treatment requirements of this section. The hauling
of water to a proposed minor subdivision to meet the water and fire protection
requirements of this section is prohibited and shall not be accepted by the
County as a method of providing any minor subdivision with water and fire
protection services.
      2.   Health Department: The Tri-County Health Department shall be
considered the County's expert in evaluating the proposed culinary water supply
system. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide information
and materials as required by the Tri-County Health Department.
      3.   Distance To State Approved System: Connection to a State approved
water system is required if water lines are within three hundred feet (300') of
any part of the property boundary proposed for a minor subdivision. The
applicant for the minor subdivision shall submit a letter of intent for service
from the water supplier at the time of minor subdivision application.
      4.   Information Required: In addition to the requirements of the Tri-
County Health Department, the following information shall be provided,
necessary to evaluate the adequacy of the culinary water system intended to
serve the proposed minor subdivision:
         a.   Evidence of adequate water rights.
         b.   Evidence shall be provided identifying adequate water rights to
serve the proposed minor subdivision.
         c.   Such evidence shall identify a minimum of one (1.0) acre foot of
water right per residential unit, or equivalent, which is not dedicated to any
other use.
      5.   Individual Wells And Springs: If individual on site wells or springs
are proposed as a method of providing culinary water, the well or spring shall
have documentation providing the following information as part of the
application materials for a minor subdivision:
A water quality analysis indicating the quality of water recovered from the
well or spring meets all public health standards for culinary water. Water
samples shall be provided for review by the Tri-County Health Department.
   B.   Sewage Requirements:
      1.   Health Department: The Tri-County Health Department shall be
considered the County's expert in evaluating the proposed sewage treatment
system. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide information
and materials as required by the Tri-County Health Department.
      2.   Distance To State Approved System: Connection to a State approved
sewer system is required if sewer lines are within three hundred feet (300') of
any part of the property boundary proposed for a minor subdivision. The
applicant for the minor subdivision shall submit a letter of intent for service
from the sewer system provider at the time of minor subdivision application.
      3.   Percolation Test: For all proposed minor subdivisions, where on site
wastewater disposal systems are proposed, the minor subdivision application
shall include final percolation test results, meeting the requirements of the
Tri-County Health Department, for each lot proposed. Larger lots than allowed
by the zoning ordinance may be required by the County to assure that each lot
will provide adequate on site sewer treatment. The location of the approved
absorption site shall be shown. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-6: SUITABILITY OF AREA FOR SUBDIVISION:
In addition to the information required in sections
8-8C-4 and
8-8C-5 of this article, the following information is required to be presented
as part of the minor subdivision application, necessary to establish the
suitability of the site for the proposed minor subdivision:
   A.   Endangered Or Threatened Wildlife Habitat: For any minor subdivision
proposed within the area of a Habitat Conservation Plan, the applicant shall
provide a letter from an authorized State or Federal agency identifying
compliance with any Habitat Conservation Plan.
   B.   Fire Control: A letter must be provided from the fire district or Fire
Department responsible for providing fire protection to the proposed minor
subdivision, identifying any items related to providing the proposed
subdivision with adequate fire protection and suppression services. The
proposed minor subdivision shall meet the requirements for fire protection and
suppression as adopted by the County and the fire district or responsible Fire
Department.
   C.   Other Information And Materials: When the County staff, Planning
Commission or County Commission deem necessary, the applicant for a minor
subdivision may be required to provide other information or letters of
feasibility, conduct studies and provide evidence indicating suitability of the
area for the proposed minor subdivision, including, but not limited to,
groundwater protection, plant cover maintenance, geologic or flood hazard,
erosion control, and any other physical or environmental matters necessary to
fully identify the suitability of the area for the proposed minor subdivision.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-7: COORDINATION WITH SERVICE PROVIDERS REQUIRED:
In addition to the information required herein, the following information is
required to promote coordination with affected service providers:
   A.   Location Within Special Service District: If the proposed minor
subdivision is located within the boundaries of a special service district, a
letter from the service district governing board acknowledging the proposed
minor subdivision, which letter may identify any potential impacts resulting
from the proposed subdivision.
   B.   Location Within Irrigation, Canal Company: If the proposed minor
subdivision is located within the boundaries of an irrigation company or canal
company a letter from the governing board, acknowledging the proposed
subdivision, which letter may identify any potential impacts resulting from the
proposed minor subdivision. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-8: ENGINEERING REVIEW FEES:
The applicant for minor subdivision approval shall pay all costs incurred by
the County for the provision of engineering services, provided by a licensed
engineer and appointed by the County, acting as the County engineer, necessary
to review the minor subdivision application. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-9: PLANNING COMMISSION TO DETERMINE COMPLETE APPLICATION:
Prior to considering a minor subdivision application, the Planning Commission
shall determine and find that the minor subdivision application is complete and
contains all the minor subdivision application materials as required herein.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-10: LACK OF APPLICATION INFORMATION; INCOMPLETE APPLICATION:
   A.   Incomplete: The lack of information under any item specified in this
article, or improper information supplied by the applicant, shall cause the
Planning Commission to find the minor subdivision application incomplete.
   B.   Notice: A Planning Commission determination of an incomplete minor
subdivision application shall prohibit the Planning Commission from considering
any material, items or other information related to the proposed minor
subdivision. The Planning Commission shall notify the applicant of the required
information lacking from the minor subdivision application. If the minor
subdivision application remains incomplete after thirty (30) days from date of
notification of an incomplete minor subdivision application, the Planning
Commission shall return the incomplete minor subdivision application to the
applicant. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-11: APPROVAL; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Consideration: Following a determination of a complete minor
subdivision application by the Planning Commission, the minor subdivision
application may be scheduled for consideration by the Planning Commission.
   B.   Public Hearing: The Planning Commission shall schedule a public
hearing, providing at least ten (10) days' public notice, to receive comment on
the proposed minor subdivision, with notice of the public hearing:
      1.   Providing at least ten (10) days public hearing notice to all owners
of record of all property adjoining the proposed minor subdivision;
      2.   Being posted in at least three (3) public places in the County, at
least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing;
      3.   Providing at least ten (10) days' public hearing notice to the
legislative body of each municipality and county whose boundaries are within
one (1) mile of the property that is the subject of the minor subdivision
application.
   C.   Consideration: Following the close of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall consider the application and all materials submitted and input
and comments received. The Planning Commission may recommend approval of the
minor subdivision as presented, recommend approval with conditions, or
recommend denial of the minor subdivision. The Planning Commission may require
on site and off site improvements, facilities and amenities, with findings
determined necessary by the Planning Commission to protect the public health,
safety and welfare of anticipated residents of the subdivision, or the existing
residents of the County, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Road improvements, grading and hard surfacing, bridges, culverts,
curbs, gutters, road signs and lighting.
      2.   Flood control areas and facilities.
      3.   Culinary water facilities.
      4.   Sanitary sewer facilities.
      5.   Parks, trails, open space areas and facilities.
      6.   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities.
      7.   Irrigation facilities.
      8.   Electrical power and telephone facilities.
      9.   Fencing.
   D.   Recommendation: The Planning Commission shall transmit its
recommendation to the County Commission for consideration.
   E.   County Commission Hearing: Following receipt of the Planning
Commission's recommendation, the County Commission shall schedule a public
hearing to receive comment on the Planning Commission's recommendation of the
minor subdivision application, with notice of the public hearing:
      1.   Providing at least ten (10) days' public hearing notice to all
owners of record of all property adjoining the proposed minor subdivision;
      2.   Being posted in at least three (3) public places in the County, at
least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing;
      3.   Providing public hearing notice to the legislative body of each
municipality and county whose boundaries are within one (1) mile of the
property that is the subject of the minor subdivision application.
   F.   Consideration: Following the close of the public hearing, the County
Commission shall consider the application and all materials submitted and input
and comments received. The County Commission may approve the minor subdivision
as presented, approve the minor subdivision with conditions or deny the minor
subdivision application. The County Commission may require on site and off site
improvements, facilities and amenities, with findings determined necessary by
the County Commission to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
anticipated residents of the subdivision, or the existing residents of the
County, including, but not limiting to:
      1.   Road improvements, grading and hard surfacing, bridges, culverts,
curbs, gutters, road signs and lighting.
      2.   Flood control areas and facilities.
      3.   Culinary water facilities.
      4.   Sanitary sewer facilities.
      5.   Parks, trails, open space areas and facilities.
      6.   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities.
      7.   Irrigation facilities.
      8.   Electrical power and telephone facilities.
      9.   Fencing. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-12: BUILDING PERMITS:
After a minor subdivision has been approved by the County Commission and filed
in the Office of the County Recorder, the applicant may apply for building
permits consistent with the approved minor subdivision and the requirements for
a building permit. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-13: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF APPROVAL:
The approval of a minor subdivision shall be effective for a period of one (1)
year from the date the minor subdivision is approved by the County Commission,
at the end of which time such minor subdivision shall have been recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder. If the approved minor subdivision is not
recorded within the one (1) year period of date of approval, the minor
subdivision approval shall be void, and the applicant shall be required to
submit a new subdivision application for review and approval, subject to the
then existing provisions of this chapter and all other applicable County
requirements. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8C-14: SITE PREPARATION WORK PROHIBITED BEFORE APPROVAL AND RECORDING:
No excavation, grading or regrading shall take place on any land, and no
building permits shall be issued, until a proposed minor subdivision has
received approval from the County Commission and the minor subdivision has been
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE D.  MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8-8D-1: Preliminary Subdivision Plat
8-8D-1-1: Application Requirements
8-8D-1-2: Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services
8-8D-1-3: Suitability Of Area For Subdivision
8-8D-1-4: Coordination With Municipalities And Service Providers Required
8-8D-1-5: Engineering Review Fees
8-8D-1-6: Planning Commission To Determine Complete Application
8-8D-1-7: Lack Of Application Information; Incomplete Application
8-8D-1-8: Approval; Procedures
8-8D-1-9: Effect Of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval
8-8D-1-10: Effective Period Of Approval
8-8D-2: Final Subdivision Plat
8-8D-2-1: Application Requirements
8-8D-2-2: Engineering Review Fees
8-8D-2-3: Plat Materials, Size, Copies
8-8D-2-4: Multiple Sheets, Plat Accuracy
8-8D-2-5: County Commission To Determine Complete Application
8-8D-2-6: Lack Of Application Information; Incomplete Application
8-8D-2-7: Final Subdivision Plat Approval
8-8D-2-8: Nature And Effective Period Of Final Subdivision Plat Approval
8-8D-2-9: Site Preparation Work Prohibited Before Approval And Recording
8-8D-1: PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT:
8-8D-1-1: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The following information is required for the subdivision of all lands located
within the County, unless the subdivision qualifies as a minor subdivision, as
provided in article C of this chapter. The applicant may be required to provide
other information required by the County staff, Planning Commission or County
Commission necessary to evaluate the merits of the proposed subdivision.
   A.   General: A preliminary subdivision plat shall be prepared by an
engineer or land surveyor, licensed in the State, at a convenient scale of not
more than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), or at a scale as
approved by the Planning Commission. The preliminary plat shall be prepared in
pen or may be printed and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than
one (1) sheet is used. The preliminary plat should be drawn or printed on
tracing cloth or reproducible mylar. A minimum of ten (10) paper copies shall
be presented to the County, as part of the preliminary plat application. The
County may request additional copies if required.
   B.   Features: The preliminary subdivision plat shall show the following:
      1.   A layout plat to a scale of no more than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100'), or as recommended by the Planning Commission.
      2.   A title block, placed on the lower right hand corner of the plat
showing:
         a.   Proposed name of the subdivision and the section, township,
range, principal median, and county of its location.
         b.   Name and address of owner of record and name and address of
engineer and land surveyor preparing the preliminary plat.
         c.   North arrow, graphic and written scale, basis of bearings used
and date of preparation.
         d.   Tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed subdivision,
showing the total number of lots, and the areas of each lot.
      3.   A vicinity map of the site at a minimum scale of one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100').
      4.   Surveyed boundary of the proposed subdivision, accurate in scale,
dimension and bearing, including all adjoining and contiguous property under
the control of the owner, even if only a portion is to be subdivided, giving
the location of and ties to the nearest horizontal control monument and section
corner, benchmark (acceptable to the County and tied to USGS benchmarks) or
monument. The names of all adjoining property owners of record shall be shown.
This information shall provide data sufficient to determine readily the
location, bearing and length of all lines and the location of all proposed
monuments.
      5.   All existing monuments found during the course of the survey
(including a physical description such as "brass cap").
      6.   Topographic contour intervals of no greater than ten feet (10') for
the entire subdivision site, unless otherwise required by the Planning
Commission.
      7.   Identification of natural features, including, but not limited to,
wetlands as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, floodplains and
floodways, slopes exceeding thirty percent (30%), and threatened or endangered
species habitat for the entire subdivision site, including a tabulation of the
acres in each.
      8.   The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, property
lines and zoning district boundary lines shall be shown, as well as existing
fence lines.
      9.   The location of existing platted lots, and other important features,
including public utility easements, railroads, power lines, culverts, drainage
channels, flood channels, water bodies, irrigation ditches, and areas which
would be covered in the event of 100-year floods within and contiguous to the
subdivision site.
      10.   All lots, rights-of-way and easements created by the subdivision
with their boundary, bearings, heights, widths, name, number or purpose, shall
be given. All lots are to be numbered under a system acceptable to the County
Recorder. All proposed new roads shall be named or numbered acceptable to the
County Commission.
      11.   All proposed roadway locations and dimensions, their proposed
names, numbers and rights-of-way with cross sections of all proposed roads,
showing proposed cuts and fills exceeding three feet (3').
      12.   Location and size of existing and proposed culinary water and sewer
lines and/or the location of all wells and springs used for culinary water and
the location of all septic systems and drain fields, as applicable, and storm
drainage improvements, including location, size, depth and slope, together with
related appurtenances, fire hydrants, valves, manholes, cleanout boxes and
culverts.
      13.   Proposed drainage system for both surface and flood water.
      14.   Layout of proposed power lines, bridges, utilities, utility
easements and any common space or open space areas, including the location and
dimensions of all property proposed to be set aside for public or private
reservation, with designation of the purpose of those set aside, and
conditions, if any, of the dedication or reservation.
      15.   Location of existing springs or water sources within one thousand
feet (1,000').
      16.   Location of all existing and proposed drinking water source
protection zones.
      17.   A development phasing schedule (if applicable) including the
sequence for each phase, approximate size in area of each phase, and proposed
phasing of construction of all private and public improvements.
      18.   Stamped, addressed envelopes of all owners of record of real
property within one thousand feet (1,000') of the parcel of land proposed for
subdivision.
      19.   Payment of the preliminary plat application fee, as established by
resolution by the County Commission. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-1-2: EVIDENCE OF AVAILABILITY OF NECESSARY SERVICES:
In addition to the information required in section
8-8D-1-1 of this article, the following information is required to be presented
as part of the preliminary subdivision plat application, necessary to establish
the availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision:
   A.   Water Requirements:
      1.   Hauling Water Prohibited: All major subdivision applications shall
meet the water and sewage treatment requirements of this section. The hauling
of water to a proposed subdivision to meet the water and fire protection
requirements of this section is hereby prohibited and shall not be accepted by
the County as a method of providing any subdivision with water and fire
protection services.
      2.   Health Department: The Tri-County Health Department shall be
considered the County's expert in evaluating the proposed water supply system.
It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide information and
materials as required by the Tri-County Health Department.
      3.   Distance To State Approved System: Connection to a State approved
water system is required if water lines are within three hundred feet (300') of
any part of the property boundary proposed for a major subdivision. The
applicant for the major subdivision shall submit a letter of intent for service
from the water supplier at the time of major subdivision application.
      4.   Adequate Water Rights: In addition to the requirements of the Tri-
County Health Department and the Utah Department of Environmental Quality, as
applicable, for the provision of culinary water, the following information
shall be provided, as necessary, to evaluate the adequacy of the water system
intended to serve the proposed subdivision:
         a.   Evidence of adequate water rights.
         b.   Evidence shall be provided identifying adequate water rights to
serve the proposed major subdivision.
         c.   Such evidence shall identify a minimum of one (1.0) acre foot of
water right per residential unit, or equivalent for nonresidential uses, which
is not dedicated to any other use.
      5.   Individual Wells And Springs: If individual on site wells or springs
are proposed as a method of providing culinary water, the well or spring shall
have documentation providing the following information as part of the
application materials for a major subdivision.
A water quality analysis indicating the quality of water recovered from the
well or spring meets all public health standards for culinary water. Water
samples shall be provided for review by the Tri-County Health Department.
   B.   Sewage Requirements:
      1.   Health Department: The Tri-County Health Department shall be
considered the County's expert in evaluating the proposed sewage treatment
system. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide information
and materials as required by the Tri-County Health Department.
      2.   Distance To State Approved System: Connection to a State approved
sewer system is required if sewer lines are within three hundred feet (300') of
any part of the property boundary proposed for a major subdivision. The
applicant for the major subdivision shall submit a letter of intent for service
from the sewer system provider at the time of major subdivision application.
      3.   Percolation Test: For all proposed major subdivisions, where on site
wastewater disposal systems are proposed, the major subdivision application
shall include final percolation test results, meeting the requirements of the
Tri-County Health Department for each lot proposed. Larger lots than allowed by
this title may be required by the County to assure that each lot will provide
adequate on site sewer treatment. The location of the approved absorption site
shall be shown. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-1-3: SUITABILITY OF AREA FOR SUBDIVISION:
In addition to the information required in sections
8-8D-1-1 and
8-8D-1-2 of this article, the following information is required to be presented
as part of the preliminary subdivision plat application, necessary to establish
the suitability of the site for the proposed subdivision:
   A.   Soils Suitability: A letter or soils report from the local soil
conservation district identifying the types of soils within the proposed
subdivision area and identifying any soils constraints for a subdivision.
   B.   Endangered Or Threatened Wildlife Habitat: For any subdivision proposed
within the area of a Habitat Conservation Plan, a letter from an authorized
State or local agency identifying compliance with the Habitat Conservation
Plan.
   C.   Fire Control: A letter must be provided from the fire district or Fire
Department, responsible for providing fire protection to the proposed minor
subdivision, identifying any items related to providing the proposed
subdivision with adequate fire protection and suppression services. The
proposed minor subdivision shall meet the requirements for fire protection and
suppression as adopted by the County and the fire district or responsible Fire
Department.
   D.   Other Information And Materials: When the County staff, Planning
Commission or County Commission deem necessary, the applicant may be required
to provide other information or letters of feasibility, conduct studies and
provide evidence indicating suitability of the area for the proposed
subdivision, including, but not limited to, groundwater protection, plant cover
maintenance, geologic or flood hazard, erosion control, and any other physical
or environmental matters necessary to fully identify the suitability of the
area for the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-1-4: COORDINATION WITH MUNICIPALITIES AND SERVICE PROVIDERS REQUIRED:
In addition to the information required in sections
8-8D-1-1 and
8-8D-1-2 of this article, the following information is required to be presented
as part of the preliminary subdivision plat application, necessary to promote
coordination with affected jurisdictions and other service providers:
   A.   Incorporated Municipality: For all proposed major subdivisions within
one-half (1/2) mile of an incorporated Municipality, a letter from the
legislative body of the Municipality acknowledging the proposed subdivision,
which letter may identify any potential impacts resulting from the proposed
subdivision and the Municipality's willingness to annex the proposed
subdivision area.
   B.   State Or Federal Road: If the proposed subdivision is within five
hundred feet (500') of a State or Federal road, a letter from the Utah
Department of Transportation acknowledging the proposed subdivision, which
letter may identify any potential impacts resulting from the proposed
subdivision.
   C.   Special Service District Or Area: If the proposed subdivision is
located within the boundaries of a special service district or a special
service area, a letter from the service district or service area governing
board acknowledging the proposed subdivision, which letter may identify any
potential impacts resulting from the proposed subdivision.
   D.   Irrigation Or Canal Company: If the proposed subdivision is located
within the boundaries of an irrigation company or canal company, a letter from
the governing board, acknowledging the proposed subdivision, which letter may
identify any potential impacts resulting from the proposed subdivision. (Ord.
17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-1-5: ENGINEERING REVIEW FEES:
The applicant for preliminary plat approval shall pay all costs incurred by the
County for the provision of engineering services, provided by a licensed
engineer and appointed by the County, acting as the County engineer, necessary
to review the preliminary plat application. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-1-6: PLANNING COMMISSION TO DETERMINE COMPLETE APPLICATION:
Prior to considering a preliminary plat application, the Planning Commission
shall determine and find that the preliminary plat application is complete and
contains all preliminary subdivision plat application materials as required by
sections
8-8D-1-1 through
8-8D-1-5 of this article. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-1-7: LACK OF APPLICATION INFORMATION; INCOMPLETE APPLICATION:
   A.   The lack of any information required by this section or improper
information supplied by the applicant, shall be cause for the Planning
Commission to find the preliminary subdivision plat application incomplete.
   B.   A Planning Commission determination of an incomplete preliminary
subdivision plat application shall prohibit the Planning Commission from
considering any material, items or other information related to the proposed
preliminary subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall notify the
applicant of the required information lacking from the preliminary plat
application. If the application for preliminary plat approval remains
incomplete after thirty (30) days from date of notification of an incomplete
preliminary plat application, the Planning Commission shall return the entire
incomplete preliminary plat application to the applicant. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-8D-1-8: APPROVAL; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Consideration: Following a determination of a complete preliminary
subdivision plat application by the Planning Commission, the preliminary
subdivision plat application shall be scheduled for consideration by the
Planning Commission.
   B.   Public Hearing: The Planning Commission shall schedule a public
hearing, providing at least ten (10) days' public notice, to receive comment on
the proposed preliminary subdivision plat, with notice of the public hearing:
      1.   Being provided by U.S. mail to all owners of record of real property
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the parcel of land proposed for
subdivision;
      2.   Being posted in at least three (3) public places in the County, at
least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing;
      3.   Providing at least ten (10) days' public hearing notice to the
legislative body of each municipality and county whose boundaries are within
one (1) mile of the property that is the subject of the preliminary plat
application.
   C.   Consideration; Recommendation: Following the close of the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall consider the application and all
materials submitted and input and comments received. The Planning Commission
may recommend approval of the preliminary subdivision plat as presented,
recommend approval of the preliminary subdivision plat with conditions, or
recommend denial of the preliminary subdivision plat. The Planning Commission
may recommend on site and off site improvements, facilities and amenities, with
findings, determined necessary by the Planning Commission to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of anticipated residents of the subdivision, or the
existing residents of the County, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Road improvements, grading and hard surfacing, bridges, culverts,
curbs, gutters, road signs and lighting.
      2.   Flood control areas and facilities.
      3.   Culinary water facilities.
      4.   Sanitary sewer facilities.
      5.   Parks, trails, open space areas and facilities.
      6.   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities.
      7.   Irrigation facilities.
      8.   Electrical power and telephone facilities.
      9.   Fencing.
   D.   Recommendation To County Commission: The Planning Commission shall
transmit its recommendation to the County Commission for consideration.
   E.   County Commission Hearing: Following receipt of the Planning
Commission's recommendation, the County Commission shall schedule a public
hearing, providing at least ten (10) days' public notice, on a County
Commission meeting agenda to consider the Planning Commission's recommendation,
with notice of the public hearing:
      1.   Being provided by U.S. mail to all owners of record of real property
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the parcel of land proposed for
subdivision;
      2.   Being posted in at least three (3) public places in the County, at
least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing;
      3.   Providing at least ten (10) days' public hearing notice to the
legislative body of each municipality and county whose boundaries are within
one (1) mile of the property that is the subject of the preliminary plat
application.
   F.   Consideration: Following the close of the public hearing, the County
Commission shall consider the application and all materials submitted and input
and comments received. The County Commission may approve the preliminary
subdivision plat as presented, approve the preliminary subdivision plat with
conditions, or deny the preliminary subdivision plat. The County Commission may
require on site and off site improvements, facilities and amenities, with
findings, determined necessary by the County Commission to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of anticipated residents of the subdivision, or the
existing residents of the County, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Road improvements, grading and hard surfacing, bridges, culverts,
curbs, gutters, road signs and lighting.
      2.   Flood control areas and facilities.
      3.   Culinary water facilities.
      4.   Sanitary sewer facilities.
      5.   Parks, trails, open space areas and facilities.
      6.   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities.
      7.   Irrigation facilities.
      8.   Electrical power and telephone facilities.
      9.   Fencing. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-1-9: EFFECT OF PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL:
Approval of the preliminary subdivision plat by the County Commission shall not
constitute final acceptance of the subdivision by the County, but allows the
applicant to proceed with the preparation of the final plat and all required
documents. A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development
of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has been approved by the County
Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat
approval. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-1-10: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF APPROVAL:
The approval of a preliminary subdivision plat shall be effective for a period
of one (1) year from the date the preliminary plat is approved by the County
Commissioners, at the end of which time the applicant must have submitted a
final subdivision plat for approval for the entire preliminary plat, or portion
thereof. If a final subdivision plat is not submitted for approval within the
one (1) year period, the preliminary approval shall be void, and the applicant
shall be required to submit a new preliminary subdivision plat application for
review and approval, subject to the existing provisions of this chapter and all
other applicable local, State and Federal requirements. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT:
8-8D-2-1: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the requirements for the preliminary subdivision plat contained
in section
8-8D-1 of this article, all final subdivision plats shall provide the following
information. The final subdivision plat shall be prepared by a licensed
engineer or land surveyor, and conform to current surveying practice and be in
a form acceptable to the County Recorder for recordation and identify the
following:
   A.   General: The final subdivision plat shall be presented in ink on
tracing cloth or reproducible mylar at the same scale and contain the same
information, except for any changes or additions required by the County
Commission, as shown on the approved preliminary plat. All revision dates must
be shown as well as the following:
      1.   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, or other restrictions, if
required by the County Commission in accordance with this chapter.
      2.   Endorsement on the plat by every person having a security interest
in the subdivision property that they are subordinating their liens to all
covenants, servitudes and easements imposed on the property.
      3.   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners or
other points are made shall be noted.
      4.   The owner's certificate of consent including a legal description of
the subdivision's boundaries and the dedication of public ways or spaces. This
certificate shall be signed, dated and notarized. The owner's certificate
should include a reference to any covenants that may be declared and blanks
where the County Recorder may enter the book and page number of their
recording.
      5.   A certificate showing the name and registration number of the
engineer or surveyor responsible for making the plat, and certifying to the
plat's accuracy.
      6.   Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures of the Planning
Commission Chair, County Commission Chair, County Engineer, County Recorder,
County Attorney and County Treasurer.
      7.   Final design and construction drawings of all required public
improvements consistent with the requirements of the County.
      8.   A tax clearance from the County Treasurer, indicating that all
taxes, interest and penalties owing for the property have been paid.
      9.   Payment of the final plat application fee as established by
resolution by the County Commission. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2-2: ENGINEERING REVIEW FEES:
An applicant for final subdivision plat approval shall pay all costs incurred
by the County for the provision of engineering services, provided by a licensed
engineer and appointed by the County, acting as the County engineer, necessary
to review the final plat application materials, as required herein, for
conformity to the requirements of this section and accepted engineering
standards and practice. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2-3: PLAT MATERIALS, SIZE, COPIES:
Final subdivision plats shall be prepared on linen or on a stable base
polyester film (mylar). Ten (10) paper copies shall be submitted along with the
linen or film copy. An eleven inch by fourteen inch (11" x 14") black line
original shall also be provided. A computer disk copy, in a computer format
acceptable to the County, shall also be provided. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2-4: MULTIPLE SHEETS, PLAT ACCURACY:
Multiple sheet plats may be used. All sheets shall be numbered and referenced
to an index map, and all required certificates shall appear on a single sheet
(along with the index and vicinity maps). Bearings shall be shown to the
nearest second; lengths to the nearest hundredth foot; areas to the nearest
hundredth acre. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2-5: COUNTY COMMISSION TO DETERMINE COMPLETE APPLICATION:
Prior to considering a final plat application, the County Commission shall
determine and find that the final plat application is complete and contains all
application materials as required herein. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2-6: LACK OF APPLICATION INFORMATION; INCOMPLETE APPLICATION:
   A.   Incomplete: The lack of information under any item specified in this
section, or improper information supplied by the applicant, shall cause the
County Commission to find the application incomplete.
   B.   Return To Applicant: A County Commission determination of an incomplete
final subdivision plat application shall prohibit the County Commission from
considering any material, items or other information related to the proposed
final subdivision plat. If the application for final plat application remains
incomplete after thirty (30) days from date of notification of an incomplete
final plat application, the County Commission shall return the incomplete final
subdivision plat application to the applicant. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2-7: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL:
It is the intent of this section that approval of a final subdivision plat be a
ministerial action by the County Commission, assuring compliance with all
applicable requirements of this chapter and any conditions imposed by the
County Commission for preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2-8: NATURE AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   Building Permits: After a final subdivision plat has been approved by
the County Commission and recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, the
applicant may apply for building permits consistent with the approved final
subdivision plat and the requirements for a building permit.
   B.   Approval Period: The approval of a final subdivision plat shall be
effective for a period of one (1) year from the date the final plat is approved
by the County Commission, at the end of which time such final subdivision plat
shall have been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder. If the approved
final subdivision plat is not recorded within the one (1) year period of date
of approval, the final subdivision plat approval shall be void, and the
applicant shall be required to submit a new preliminary plat for review and
approval subject to the then existing provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable local, State and Federal requirements. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8D-2-9: SITE PREPARATION WORK PROHIBITED BEFORE APPROVAL AND RECORDING:
No excavation, grading or regrading shall take place on any land, and no
building permits shall be issued, until a proposed subdivision has received
final plat approval from the County Commission and the final subdivision plat
has been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE E.  CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8-8E-1: Purpose And Intent
8-8E-2: Use Regulations
8-8E-3: General Requirements
8-8E-4: Development Standards
8-8E-5: Farm Area And Open Space Provision And Maintenance
8-8E-6: Application For Cluster Subdivision
8-8E-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The cluster subdivision option is provided and designed to encourage creativity
in subdivision layout and to allow for the protection of the natural features
and amenities of the County. Full compliance with all the provisions of this
title, and all other applicable County, State and Federal requirements is
required. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8E-2: USE REGULATIONS:
The cluster subdivision option may be permitted in all zoning districts of the
County, at the discretion of the County Commission, and following the receipt
of a Planning Commission recommendation. An application for a cluster
subdivision shall be considered concurrently with an application for
subdivision approval. All use requirements of the zoning district in which the
cluster subdivision is located shall apply, and the requirements for either a
subdivision plat or minor subdivision, as applicable, shall apply. (Ord. 17-16,
7-26-2017)
8-8E-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Number Of Dwelling Units: The total number of dwelling units allowed in
a cluster subdivision shall be the same as the number allowed by the minimum
lot area requirements of the zoning district in which the proposed cluster
subdivision is located. Any land used for other uses shall not be included in
the area for determining the total number of permitted dwelling units. The
total number of permitted dwelling units must also recognize any critical area
requirements that may be applicable as identified in this title.
   B.   Ownership: The land proposed for a cluster subdivision shall be in a
single ownership or the application for a cluster subdivision shall be filed
jointly by the owners. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8E-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area may be reduced below the minimum
lot area required by the zoning district requirements in which the cluster
subdivision is located, as recommended by the Planning Commission, and as
approved by the County Commission.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width And Minimum Yard Requirements: The minimum lot width,
side yard, front yard and rear yard requirements of the zoning district in
which the cluster subdivision is located may be reduced as recommended by the
Planning Commission and as approved by the County Commission.
   C.   Use And Height Requirements: All cluster subdivisions are required to
comply with the use and height requirements of the zoning district in which
they are located. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8E-5: FARM AREA AND OPEN SPACE PROVISION AND MAINTENANCE:
All areas to be preserved for farm use and/or open space areas, as a result of
a cluster subdivision approval, shall be preserved and restricted by way of a
condition of approval, with a deed restriction recorded, assuring the long term
use of such areas. These areas shall only be used and shall be maintained in
accordance with a condition of cluster subdivision approval, as recommended by
the Planning Commission, and approved by the County Commission. (Ord. 17-16, 7-
26-2017)
8-8E-6: APPLICATION FOR CLUSTER SUBDIVISION:
An application for a cluster subdivision approval shall be submitted to the
County in accordance with the requirements for a preliminary plat application,
or a minor subdivision application, as applicable, and as required by this
title. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
ARTICLE F.  PLAT AMENDMENTS AND AMENDMENTS TO SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8-8F-0: Statute Applicable
8-8F-1: Amendment To Recorded Plats And Subdivisions Created By Record Of
Survey
8-8F-2: Appeal Of Plat Amendment And Record Of Survey Subdivision Amendment
Decisions
8-8F-3: Lot Line Adjustments Within Recorded Plat Or Subdivision
8-8F-0: STATUTE APPLICABLE:
The Planning Commission shall act as the Land Use Authority. Unless otherwise
provided, the provisions of Utah Code 17-27a-608 and 17-27a-609 et seq., are
applicable to this article. (Ord. 17-16,7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
8-8F-1: AMENDMENT TO RECORDED PLATS AND SUBDIVISIONS CREATED BY RECORD OF
SURVEY:
The Board of County Commissioners may, with or without a petition, consider a
vacation, alteration or amendment of a recorded final subdivision plat or
subdivision created by record of survey, any portion of a subdivision plat or
subdivision created by record of survey, or any road or lot, contained in a
subdivision plat or subdivision created by record of survey by following and
complying with all the requirements for vacating or changing a subdivision
plat, as identified at Section 17-27a-608, Utah Code, as amended and Section
17-27a-609, Utah Code. (Ord. 17-16,7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
8-8F-2: APPEAL OF PLAT AMENDMENT AND RECORD OF SURVEY SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT
DECISIONS:
An aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the County Commission concerning
a subdivision amendment to District Court, as provided in Utah Code 17-27a-801,
as amended. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
8-8F-3: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS WITHIN RECORDED PLAT OR SUBDIVISION:
   A.   An application for a lot line adjustment shall be submitted when:
      1.   Any of the lots being adjusted are part of a subdivision.
   B.   Conditions For Petition: Petitions to adjust lot lines between
adjoining properties may be executed upon the recordation of an appropriate
deed that has been approved by the Zoning Administrator and cleared for taxes
by Daggett County Treasurer, if:
      1.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit results from the lot line
adjustment;
      2.   To be filed jointly by the owners of subject properties;
      3.   The lot line adjustment does not result in a remnant piece of land
that did not previously exist;
      4.   The lot line adjustment does not result in the violation of any
applicable zoning district requirements.
   C.   Requirements Prior To Recordation: Prior to recordation of the
appropriate deed, the County Recorder shall ensure the requirements of this
section are met. The County Recorder shall review the materials presented for a
lot line adjustment prior to recordation. (Ord. 17-16,7-26-2017)
   D.   The plat shall be recorded as an amendment to the recorded subdivision
(s) in which the lots are located. (Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
ARTICLE G.  RECORDING AND CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
8-8G-1: Construction Of Required Subdivision Improvements
8-8G-2: Proceeding With Subdivision Construction
8-8G-3: As Built Drawings
8-8G-4: Guarantees And Escrow Bond
8-8G-1: CONSTRUCTION OF REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS:
Construction of any subdivision improvements, including infrastructure and
facilities, necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter, and any
conditions required by the County Commission for final subdivision approval,
shall comply with the requirements as established by ordinance by the County
Commission. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8G-2: PROCEEDING WITH SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION:
Following the recording of the approved subdivision in the Office of the County
Recorder, the landowner may proceed with construction of the approved
subdivision. However, no improvements shall be installed until their location
and "cut sheets" have been approved by the County engineer. Water mains, sewer
lines, laterals, drainage facilities and fire hydrants shall be installed and
tested prior to the surfacing of roads and the installation of road base. A
preconstruction meeting shall be held either prior to recording of the final
subdivision plat or as directed by the County engineer. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8G-3: AS BUILT DRAWINGS:
At the completion of subdivision construction (and prior to final escrow
release) the subdivider shall deliver to the County engineer three (3) sets of
"as built" drawings. These drawings shall show all approved changes made during
construction and provide physical ties for all water lines, valves, sewer
lines, manholes, etc. All bonds held by the County will not be released until
the as built drawings are received by the County engineer. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-8G-4: GUARANTEES AND ESCROW BOND:
The County may require guarantees and bonding necessary to ensure the
installation of all public improvements. Any required guarantee of bonding
shall be recommended by the County engineer and approved by the County Attorney
consistent with the established procedures of the County. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
ARTICLE H.  BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
8-8H-1: Legal Lot Required
8-8H-2: Water, Sewage And Road Requirements
8-8H-1: LEGAL LOT REQUIRED:
The building inspector shall not issue any permit for a proposed building, use
or structure, excluding agricultural buildings, as exempt by State law, on a
lot within the County unless:
   A.   The lot is within a subdivision and the lot was legally created
pursuant to this chapter, or the County subdivision ordinance adopted January
19, 1994.
   B.   The lot is a legal lot of record, created prior to January 19, 1994.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-8H-2: WATER, SEWAGE AND ROAD REQUIREMENTS:
As required by this section, all applications for a building permit, excepting
agricultural buildings as exempt by State law, shall comply with the following
requirements for the provision of basic infrastructure and service:
   A.   Water Requirements:
      1.   The hauling of water to meet the water and fire protection
requirements of this chapter for the issuance of a building permit is
prohibited and shall not be accepted by the County as a method of providing any
building or structure with water and fire protection services.
      2.   The Tri-County Health Department shall be considered the County's
expert in evaluating the proposed water supply system. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to provide information and materials as
required by the Tri- County Health Department.
      3.   In all cases where a proposed building, use or structure will
require culinary water and the proposed building, use or structure will not be
connected to an existing and approved public water supply, approval for the
culinary water system must be obtained from the Tri-County Health Department.
   B.   Sewage Requirements:
      1.   The Tri-County Health Department shall be considered the County's
expert in evaluating the proposed sewage treatment system. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to provide information and materials as
required by the Tri- County Health Department.
      2.   For all buildings, uses and structures, where on site wastewater
disposal systems are proposed, the building permit application shall include
final percolation test results, meeting the requirements of the Tri-County
Health Department.
   C.   Road Requirements:
      1.   All proposed buildings, uses and structures are required to provide
direct access to a publicly dedicated road, improved to the minimum
requirements for road improvements as established by the County.
      2.   For all building permit applications providing direct access to
publicly dedicated roads, but not improved to the minimum requirements for road
improvements, the Board of County Commissioners may issue a building permit, on
a case by case basis, by requiring the applicant for a building permit to sign
an agreement with the County agreeing to the following:
         a.   Acknowledging the required road improvements; and
         b.   Indicating voluntary participation, running with the property, in
the establishment of an improvement district, service district or other
mechanism necessary for the installation of the required road and street
improvements, at a time determined necessary by the County Commission. (Ord.
17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 9
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Effect
8-9-2: Lots In Separate Ownership
8-9-3: Yard Space For One Building Only
8-9-4: Dwelling Requirements
8-9-5: Private Garage With Side Yard; Reduced Yards
8-9-6: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space
8-9-7: Sale Of Lots Below Minimum Space Requirements
8-9-8: Area Of Accessory Buildings
8-9-9: Yards Unobstructed; Exceptions
8-9-10: Additional Height Allowed
8-9-11: Exceptions To Height Limitations
8-9-12: Maximum Height Of Accessory Buildings
8-9-13: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
8-9-14: Animals And Fowl
8-9-15: Water And Sewage Requirements
8-9-16: Effect Of Official Map
8-9-17: Setbacks From State And Federal Highways
8-9-18: Public Dumping Grounds
8-9-19: Excavations
8-9-20: Conservation Of Values
8-9-21: Temporary Buildings And Uses
8-9-22: Location Of Recreational Vehicles, Aircraft, Boats, Camping Trailers,
Truck Campers And Motor Homes For Living Purposes
8-9-23: Occupancy Permits
8-9-24: Administrative Determination As To Uses Not Listed
8-9-25: Maintenance Of Property For Safety And Prevention Of Public Nuisance
8-9-26: Airport Area Special Regulations
8-9-27: Storage Containers As Accessory Buildings
8-9-28: Tension Membrane Structures
8-9-29: Residential And Accessory Buildings
8-9-1: EFFECT:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord.
17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-2: LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:
The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not be
construed to prevent the use for a single- family dwelling of any lot or parcel
of land; provided, that such lot or parcel of land is located in a zone which
permits single-family dwellings and is a legally divided lot held in separate
ownership at the time such requirements became effective for such lot or parcel
of land. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-3: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon
a building is to be erected or established. This section shall be so construed
to mean only one main building may be permitted on one lot unless otherwise
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-4: DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
All single-family and multi-family dwellings shall have a minimum of four
hundred (400') square feet. The minimum rental permitted shall be thirty (30)
days unless allowed otherwise per Title 8, Chapter 15 of this code. Every
dwelling shall be located and maintained on a "lot," as defined in section
8-2-3 of this title.  (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
8-9-5: PRIVATE GARAGE WITH SIDE YARD; REDUCED YARDS:
On any interior lot where a private attached garage, containing a sufficient
number of parking spaces to meet the requirements of this title has a side yard
equal to the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same zone, the
width of the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal that of
the minimum required side yard. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-6: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this title for lot or building may be sold or leased away from
such lot or building. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-7: SALE OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements
for the zone in which it is located may be cut off from a larger parcel of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building or development as a
lot. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-8: AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any residential zone
shall cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard. (Ord. 17-16,
7-26-2017)
8-9-9: YARDS UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed, except
for canopies which might be allowed under any provision contained herein,
accessory buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projections of skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, chimney, flues and other ornamental features
which project into a yard not more than three feet (3'), and open or lattice
enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and balconies upon fire
towers which project into a yard not more than five feet (5'). (Ord. 17-16, 7-
26-2017)
8-9-10: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED:
Public and semipublic utility buildings, when authorized in a zone, may be
erected to a height not exceeding seventy five feet (75') if the building is
set back from each otherwise established building line at least one foot (1')
for each additional foot of building height above the normal height limit
required for the zone in which the building is erected. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-11: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles,
chimneys, smoke stacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater
lofts, silos or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
herein prescribed, but no space above the height limit shall be allowed for the
purpose of providing additional floor space. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-12: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No building which is accessory to a one-family, two-family, three-family or
four-family dwelling shall be erected to a height greater than one (1) story or
thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-13: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of
two feet (2') in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular
area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them at points
forty feet (40') from the intersection of the street lines, except a reasonable
number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to automobile
drivers and pumps at gasoline service stations. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-14: ANIMALS AND FOWL:
No animals or fowl shall be kept or maintained closer than forty feet (40')
from any dwelling. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-15: WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS:
In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve the use of
sewage facilities and a sewer, as defined by the Tri-County Health Department,
is not available and in all cases where a proposed supply of piped water under
pressure is not available, the sewage disposal and the domestic water supply
shall comply with requirements of said Tri-County Health Department and the
application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of
approval from said Tri-County Health Department. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-16: EFFECT OF OFFICIAL MAP:
Wherever a front yard is required for a lot facing on a street for which an
official map has been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, the depth
of such front yard shall be measured from the mapped street line provided by
the official map. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-17: SETBACKS FROM STATE AND FEDERAL HIGHWAYS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, all buildings abutting from
highways having a State or Federal designation (except nonaccess highways)
shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from the highway right-of-way line,
except for small temporary fruit and vegetable stands. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-18: PUBLIC DUMPING GROUNDS:
Public dumping grounds shall be maintained in accordance with standards of the
State Department of Health and shall be located at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from any building used for human occupancy. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-19: EXCAVATIONS:
The banks of all gravel, sand, clay and topsoil pits and similar excavations
located within five hundred feet (500') from any street or dwelling shall be
smoothed and reconditioned so as not to be hazardous or unsightly at the
termination of operation or use. Before a permit for a gravel, sand, clay or
topsoil pit or similar excavation shall be issued, a bond or other assurance
shall be furnished to the County in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) for each acre from which such material is taken as a guarantee
that the reconditioning will be done in a manner and to such extent that the
pit will not depreciate the surrounding property for its primary use or will
impair the beauty of the landscape. Upon the completion of the reconditioning,
as approved by the Board of County Commissioners, the bond or other assurance
shall be returned to the owner; provided, that in the event the reconditioning
has not been completed within one (1) year from the date of abandonment of said
pit, the Governing Body may declare the bond or other assurance forfeited and
may do the required reconditioning with proceeds from said bonds or assurances.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-20: CONSERVATION OF VALUES:
Any use which emits noise, smoke, dust, odor or vibrations in amounts
sufficient to substantially depreciate values of surrounding buildings or
lands, or which deprives the owners of adjoining property of the full use of
their land, shall be prohibited. This shall include the prohibition against the
industrial and commercial use of land in areas zoned for residential use. (Ord.
17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-21: TEMPORARY BUILDINGS AND USES:
Temporary buildings and uses are permitted as follows:
   A.   Buildings, Homes, Recreational Vehicles: Temporary buildings, mobile
homes and recreational vehicles used in conjunction with construction work only
during the period of such construction, subject to securing a use permit and
the following:
      1.   Any use permit approved for such temporary building, mobile home or
recreational vehicle shall be limited to a period of time not to exceed two (2)
years from the date of such approval, but said permit may be renewed for like
periods thereafter upon the property owner submitting to the Planning
Commission having jurisdiction satisfactory evidence indicating the need for
such temporary building, mobile home or recreational vehicle continues to
exist.
      2.   Unless such use permit is renewed, such temporary building, mobile
home or recreational vehicle shall be removed from the property upon the
expiration of the previously approved use permit or within ten (10) days after
completion of the construction work, whichever occurs first.
   B.   Building, Construction Equipment: Temporary uses such as the cutting
and storage of lumber or the storage of building materials and construction
equipment conducted or used in conjunction with construction work only during
the period of such constructions, subject to securing a use permit and the
following:
      1.   Any use permit approved for such temporary use shall be limited to a
period of time not to exceed two (2) years from the date of such approval, but
said permit may be renewed for like periods thereafter upon the property owner
submitting to the Planning Commission having jurisdiction satisfactory evidence
indicating that the need for such temporary use continues to exist.
      2.   Unless such use permit is renewed, such temporary use shall cease
and desist upon the expiration of the previously approved use permit or within
ten (10) days after completion of the construction work, whichever occurs
first.
   C.   Real Estate Office: Temporary real estate offices, subject to securing
a use permit and the following:
      1.   Such office shall be located on the property being subdivided for
sale as individual lots and its use shall be limited to the sale of these lots.
      2.   Such office shall be subject to the height, yard, intensity of use
and parking regulations for the zoning district in which it is located and
shall meet minimum water and sanitary standards as required by the Tri-County
Health Department.
      3.   Any use permit approved for such office shall be limited to a period
of time not to exceed two (2) years from the date of such approval, but said
permit may be renewed by the Planning Commission for like periods thereafter if
lots in the property being subdivided have not been sold.
   D.   Special Events: Temporary uses such as circuses, carnivals, Christmas
tree sale lots, revivals, horse shows, rodeos and charity events, subject to
securing a use permit. Any use permit approved for such use shall be limited to
a period of time not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date of such approval.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
8-9-22: LOCATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, AIRCRAFT, BOATS, CAMPING TRAILERS,
TRUCK CAMPERS AND MOTOR HOMES FOR LIVING PURPOSES:
Unless permitted under the regulations set forth in chapters 7 and 12 of this
title, or unless permitted by the use regulations for a specific zoning
district, the location or storage of mobile homes and recreational vehicles
outside of mobile home parks, recreational vehicle parks and the location or
storage of aircraft, boats, camping trailers, truck campers and motorhomes
shall be subject to the following:
   A.   Recreational Vehicle Regulations Within Residential Zones:
      1.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to this section:
         a.   Occupied: to fill, exist in, or use as a dwelling, to reside in
as an owner or tenant, habitat.
      2.   Scope: In order to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the residents of the county this section shall apply only to recreational
vehicles located within residential (R1), rural residential (RR) and multiple
residential (RM) zones. Agriculture 20,40; and Multiple Use 40,80 and 160 zones
and lots in any RR zone that are twenty (20) acres or larger in total size are
exempt.
      3.   Occupied Recreational Vehicles:
         a.   No occupied recreational vehicle shall be located in any RR
(Rural Residential), Rl (Residential District) or RM (Residential District)
zone anywhere within the county except as follows or as an allowable use by the
zoning district as identified in the Table of Uses:
            (1)   As allowed per Title 8 Chapter 12, Mobile Home Parks and
Recreational vehicle park;
            (2)   As allowed per Title 8 Chapter 7, A Planned Unit Development;
            (3)   Designated Camping Area;
            (4)   As allowed per Title 8 Chapter 9-21, Supplementary and
Qualifying Regulations;
            (5)   As allowed per this section.
      4.   Storage and Use of Recreational Vehicle:
         a.   The property owner is allowed to store recreational vehicle(s)
they own, so long as the recreational vehicle is not utilized as a dwelling.
Recreational vehicles shall not be stored on property so as to obstruct the
view of traffic, or to create a nuisance for adjoining property owners.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles On Vacant Lots:
      1.   It is unlawful to occupy a Recreational Vehicle on any unimproved
vacant lot in Residential (R1), Rural Residential (RR) and Multiple Residential
(RM) zones.
      2.   It is unlawful to occupy a Recreational Vehicle on any Residential
(RR, R1, RM) lot except during the active construction of a home or cabin and
then only for a period not to exceed twenty-four (24) months.
   C.   Recreational Vehicles On Lots With Homes Or Cabins:
      1.   Occupation of recreational vehicle(s) by a guest(s) of a property
owner on his homesite shall be permitted for no more than fourteen (14)
consecutive days.
      2.   For the purpose above, a group of contiguous lots under the same
ownership shall be considered to be one lot.
      3.   Recreational Vehicles placed on a lot as allowed above shall comply
with the required setbacks for the zone;
      4.   No rent or other form of payment is charged or received;
      5.   The recreational vehicle is self-contained using potable water or
connected to the culinary water system;
      6.   The power is connected in accordance with all applicable safety
standards;
      7.   The holding tanks and any wastewater are emptied in accordance with
state and federal law and at an approved facility or using an approved site
septic system; no more than two (2) recreational vehicles shall be hooked up to
a single septic system;
      8.   The recreational vehicle when unoccupied is stored according to this
article;
      9.   Individual lots may belong to homeowners association or have
restrictive covenants which have greater restrictions regarding recreational
vehicles. Nothing in this article shall be construed as to prevent private
enforcement of any restrictive covenants or HOA rules.
      10.   At no time shall a recreational vehicle be used for permanent human
habitation.
   D.   Miscellaneous Requirements:
      1.   Any recreational vehicle that has fallen into disrepair, collapsed,
or is otherwise uninhabitable shall constitute a nuisance and shall be removed
from the property within sixty (60) days of notice by the Daggett County
Clerk's Office. Failure to remove recreational vehicles deemed a nuisance
herunder after notice shall be a violation of this article.
      2.   Trash, refuse, or waste generated from use, storage or occupancy of
a recreational vehicle must be contained and disposed of properly at all times.
      3.   Any violation of this article is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor
and shall be subject to penalties as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every violation shall be deemed a separate offense for each
day such violation is permitted to exist after official County notice has been
given.  (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
8-9-23: OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
Land, buildings and premises in any zone shall hereafter be used only for the
purpose listed herein as permitted in that zone and in accordance with the
regulations herein established in that zone. The building inspector shall
inspect the premises and determine whether it meets the requirements and if so,
issue the permit of occupancy. Such a permit shall also be required whenever
the character or use of any building or land is proposed to be changed from one
(1) use to another use. Upon written request from the owner, such a permit may
also be issued covering any lawful use of a building or premises existing on
the effective date hereof, including nonconforming buildings and uses. (Ord.
17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-24: ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATION AS TO USES NOT LISTED:
Determination as to the classification of uses not specifically listed in
chapter 6 of this title, shall be made by the Planning Commission and shall be
subject to appeal to the Board of Adjustment. Such appeal shall be filed in
writing within ten (10) days after written notification to applicant of the
Planning Commission's determination. The procedure shall be as follows:
   A.   Written Request: A written request for such a determination shall be
filed with the building inspector. The request shall include a detailed
description of the proposed use and such other information as may be required.
   B.   Investigation: The building inspector shall thereupon make such
investigations as are deemed necessary to compare the nature and
characteristics of the proposed use with those of uses specifically listed in
this title and to make a determination of its classification.
   C.   Determination: The determination of the building inspector shall be
rendered in writing within a reasonable time, but not to exceed thirty (30)
days, unless with the written consent of the applicant. The determination shall
state the zone classification in which the proposed use will be permitted, as
well as the findings which establish that such use is of the same character as
uses permitted in that zone classification. Upon making his decision, the
building inspector shall forthwith notify the applicant and the Planning
Commission.
   D.   Effect: The determination and all information pertaining thereto shall
become a permanent public record in the office of the building inspector. Such
use shall thereafter become a permitted or conditional use in the class or
district specified in the determination and shall have the same status as a
permitted or conditional use specifically named in the regulations for the zone
classification. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-25: MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY FOR SAFETY AND PREVENTION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Property owners shall maintain their property free of nuisances as provided in
title 4, chapters 2 and 3 of this Code. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-26: AIRPORT AREA SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The following regulations contained in this section are
established to avoid or lesson hazards resulting from the operation of
aircraft, to avoid creation of new hazards, and to protect the lives of people
who use aircraft facilities.
   B.   Airport Zones Defined: For the purpose of this chapter, the following
airport zone terms shall have the following meanings:
      1.   Main Airport Approach Zones:
         a.   East approach: An area that begins two hundred feet (200') east
from the east end of the landing strip, broadening from a width of two hundred
fifty feet (250') (125 feet each side of centerline) at the beginning point, to
a width of four hundred fifty feet (450') (225 feet each side of centerline) at
a distance of one thousand feet (1,000'), the centerline being a continuation
of the centerline of the landing strip.
         b.   West approach: An area that begins two hundred feet (200') west
from the west end of the landing strip, broadening from a width of two hundred
fifty feet (250') (125 feet each side of centerline) at the beginning point, to
a width of four hundred fifty feet (450') (225 feet each side of centerline) at
a distance of one thousand feet (1,000'), the centerline being a continuation
of the centerline of the landing strip.
      2.   Airport Transition Zones: The rectangular areas that run full length
of the existing airport property and parallel to the east/west landing strips
at a distance beginning one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the
centerlines of the east/west landing strips to a distance of one thousand five
hundred fifty feet (1,550') from the centerlines of the landing strip.
      3.   Airport Turning Zone: A circular area having the radius points at
the east and west end points of the landing strip surrounding an airport
encompassing all of the land lying within a radius of two (2) miles distance
from the landing strip of an airport, except that area covered by the airport,
the transition zones, and the approach zone.
   C.   Airport Regulations:
      1.   Height Limits Near Airport:
         a.   In the main runway approach zones, no building or structure shall
be erected which is more than one foot (1') in height for each twenty feet
(20') said building or structure is distant from the beginning points of the
north and south approach zones.
         b.   In the Airport Transition Zone, no building or structure shall be
erected which is more than one foot (1') in height for each seven feet (7')
said building or structure is distant from the inside Airport Transition Zone
boundary. The inside Airport Transition Zone boundary begins at a point one
hundred twenty five feet (125') distant from the centerline of the main runway.
         c.   In the Airport Turning Zone, no building or structure shall be
erected to a height greater than one hundred fifty feet (150').
      2.   Use Regulations:
         a.   Uses Causing Interference: Notwithstanding any other provision of
this title, no uses may be made of land or buildings within the County which
will create electrical interference with radio communications between the
airport and aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between
airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the
airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or otherwise
endanger the landing or taking off of aircraft.
         b.   Structures Requiring FAA Approval: Plans for proposed structures
to be located within two thousand feet (2,000') of the main or cross wind
runway and within the approach or transition zones, may be required to be
submitted to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for their review and
recommendation regarding the proposed structure's impact on the airport. (Ord.
17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-27: STORAGE CONTAINERS AS ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Regulations: Storage containers, as defined in section
8-2-3 of this title, may be used as accessory buildings, only in accordance
with the following:
      1.   Permitted: Storage containers fabricated for the purpose of
transporting freight or goods on a truck, railroad or ship shall be allowed to
be set up as a residential storage structure or accessory building.
      2.   Building Permit Required: Purchasers, owners or users of storage
containers shall obtain a building permit from the County for each container
prior to placing or moving the container onto their property.
      3.   Setback Requirements: Placement of the storage container shall meet
all setback and hold down requirements for the zone in which it will be
located.
      4.   Exterior Appearance: The exterior of the storage container shall be
painted or altered to cover any advertising, lettering or numbers.
      5.   Stacking Prohibited: No stacking of storage containers shall be
allowed.
      6.   Ground Level Location; Permanent Foundation: All storage containers
shall be located at ground level for safety. Any storage container located on a
permanent foundation must meet all Building Code requirements.
      7.   Dwelling Use Prohibited: Storage containers shall not be used as a
dwelling unit.
      8.   Ventilation: Storage containers shall provide adequate ventilation
for personal safety.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be punishable as set forth
in this title or under the applicable State Building Code. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-9-28: TENSION MEMBRANE STRUCTURES:
   A.   When Permitted: Tension membrane structures are prohibited except as
provided below. Tension membrane structures shall only be allowed in the
following situations:
      1.   Tension membrane structures are allowed in all commercial and
industrial districts as accessory structures and must meet all zoning
regulations.
      2.   Tension membrane structures are allowed in all other districts as an
accessory structure and must comply with all other requirements applicable to
accessory structures.
      3.   A tension membrane structure is allowed for a period of not more
than sixty (60) days in connection with a temporary special event, such as a
circus, carnival or fair; provided, that the tension membrane structure
complies with all other applicable ordinances (see section
8-9-21 of this chapter).
   B.   Yurts: Tension membrane structures known as yurts are allowed as
follows:
      1.   In Zones CS, CH, CG as other living quarters, with a conditional use
permit and must meet all zoning regulations.
      2.   In Zones MU-40, MU-80, MU-160, A-20, A-40 and RR-10 as dude ranch;
family vacation ranch with a conditional use permit and must meet all zoning
regulations.
   C.   Code Compliance: All tension membrane structures must meet current IBC,
IRC and IFC Codes.
   D.   Application: A County membrane structure permit application must be
completed with an acceptable engineered set of plans, and turned into the
building inspector, with all pages and data as described below:
      1.   Plot Plan: Plot plan drawn to scale showing:
         a.   Property lines with dimensions.
         b.   All existing and proposed structures with dimensions.
         c.   Proposed or existing wastewater system.
         d.   Twenty feet (20') minimum distance between all membrane
structures and all other structures and property lines.
         e.   Name and address of property owner.
      2.   Building Plans:
         a.   Intended use, the type of construction and the occupant load of
each structure.
         b.   NFPA 701 documentation (yurts-fabric flame resistance
certificate).
         c.   Snow and wind load requirements.
         d.   Water/sewer connection or Wastewater Permit Verification Form, if
applicable. If a well is to be used for water source, applicant must have
appropriate Tri-County Health Department approval.
         e.   Authorization from the building inspector stating that all zoning
and setback requirements have been met.
   E.   Extension: Projects not completed within two (2) years of issuance must
contact the building inspector for a building permit extension.
   F.   Inspections: Permittee must contact the building inspector for
inspections. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-9-29: RESIDENTIAL AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
This section sets forth the permitting requirements and permitted sequence for
the building of a home, garage, accessory building or combination home and
garage, and residential accessory buildings in new first time construction or
replacement construction in the following zones: RR-1, RR-1/2, R1-40, R1-20,
R1-12, R1-10, R1-8, R1-6, RM-7, RM-15.
   A.   Building Permit:
      1.   Permit For Residential Accessory Building: No building permit for
any residential accessory building will be approved by either the Daggett
County Planning Commission or the Daggett County building inspector on a lot
which either does not already have a home residence, or a concurrent or
existing application for building permit for a home residence. A building
permit must be obtained for a home either prior to, or at the same time as, a
permit for a residential accessory building or garage. No application for a
permit for an unattached garage or any type of residential accessory building
will be accepted or approved under the parameters of this section without the
issuance of a permit for a home being first approved or applied for
simultaneously thereto.
      2.   Start Of Construction: The permit for a home, garage or residential
accessory building shall allow for construction to begin within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. An extension of time may be allowed upon
evidence of valid need by application to the Daggett County Planning
Commission.
      3.   Completion Of Construction: Home, garage or residential accessory
building construction must be completed under the parameters of the building
permit within two (2) years from the date of the original permit or date of
extension.
      4.   Second Permit Application: A second application for a garage or
residential accessory building construction permit may be submitted to the
Daggett County Planning Commission only after or simultaneously with the
initial application for a permit for home construction. A properly submitted
second application shall be subject to approval by the Planning Commission or
building inspector upon submission of appropriate plans, drawings, application,
and payment of fees.
      5.   Home And Garage Combination: The Daggett County Planning Commission
may authorize and approve an application for a permit for the construction of a
home and garage combination when both are attached and housed under the same
roof and constructed within the time fame of permit and completion.
      6.   Constructing Accessory Building First: Once a permit is issued for
both a home and a residential accessory building or garage, the garage or
residential accessory building may be built first.
      7.   Habitation Of Accessory Building Prohibited: Habitation of a garage
or any type of residential accessory building or otherwise using a garage or
accessory building as a dwelling is strictly prohibited.
      8.   Non-Compliance: Non-compliance with any subsection of this section
shall be considered justification for refusal of any residential accessory
building permit application. Successful resubmission of an application for a
construction permit must meet all of the conditions set forth herein.
      9.   Exemptions: Agriculture buildings are not required to obtain a
building permit when used solely for, or in conjunction with agricultural use
and are not for human occupancy. Nothing in this section is intended to alter
the existing permitting requirements and procedures for agricultural buildings.
   B.   Enforcement And Penalties: It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate the provisions of this section. Penalties shall be as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every violator shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each day such violation is permitted to exist after official County notice
has been given.
In addition to the refusal to accept an application for construction permit in
violation of this section, the Daggett County Commission may maintain an action
in a court of competent jurisdiction for an order to enjoin, injunction,
mandamus, and/or abate any violation of this section. (Ord. 18-10, 5-8-2018)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Continuation Of Existing Uses
8-10-2: Expansion Of Nonconforming Use
8-10-3: Repairs And Alterations
8-10-4: Restoration Of Damaged Buildings
8-10-5: One Year Occupancy
8-10-6: Continuation Of Use
8-10-7: Occupancy Within One Year
8-10-8: Change Of Use Not To Be More Intensive
8-10-9: Change Of Building Or Structure To Conforming Use
8-10-10: Expansion Of Use Permitted
8-10-11: Nonconforming Use Of Land
8-10-12: Abandonment
8-10-1: CONTINUATION OF EXISTING USES:
Any use of land, building or structure lawfully existing at the time the
ordinance codified herein, or amendments thereto, became effective, may be
continued, even though such use does not conform with the regulations of this
title or amendments thereto for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-2: EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   A nonconforming use of land, or noncomplying building or structure,
shall not be enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered unless such
enlargement, extension, reconstruction or structural alteration, and further
use of such property, conform with the regulations of this title for the zoning
district in which such property is located.
   B.   A building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use or a building
or structure noncomplying as to height and area of yard regulations may be
added to or enlarged or moved to a new location on the lot upon a permit
authorized by the Board of Adjustment, which may issue; provided, that the
Board of Adjustment, after the hearing, shall find:
      1.   The addition to, enlargement of, or moving of the building will be
in harmony with one (1) or more of the purposes of this title as stated in
chapter 1 of this title, and shall be in keeping with the intent of this title.
      2.   The proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden upon the
lands and residents located or residing in the vicinity of the nonconforming
use or noncomplying structure. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-3: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a noncomplying building or to
a structure housing a nonconforming use. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-4: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
A nonconforming building or structure or a building or structure occupied by a
nonconforming use which is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind,
earthquake or other calamity or act of God or the public enemy, may be restored
and the occupancy or use of such building, structure, or part thereof, which
existed at the time of such damage or destruction, may be continued or resumed;
provided, that such restoration is started within a period of one (1) year and
is diligently prosecuted to completion. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-5: ONE YEAR OCCUPANCY:
A building or structure, or portion thereof, occupied by a nonconforming use,
which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied by a
nonconforming use for a continuous period of one (1) year, except for
dwellings, shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to
the use regulations of the zone in which it is located. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-6: CONTINUATION OF USE:
The occupancy of a building or structure by a nonconforming use, existing at
the time the ordinance became effective, may be continued. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-10-7: OCCUPANCY WITHIN ONE YEAR:
A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building
or structure was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one (1)
year after the use became nonconforming. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-8: CHANGE OF USE NOT TO BE MORE INTENSIVE:
A nonconforming use may be changed to any use allowed in the most restrictive
zone where such nonconforming use is allowed, provided the Planning Commission
finds that such use would not be more intensive than the most recent existing,
legal nonconforming use.
   A.   Buildings shall not be enlarged, removed, reconstructed or otherwise
changed except for interior remodeling and exterior restoration or renewal that
will make the appearance of the building more nearly conform to the character
of the area in which it is located.
   B.   The existing lot or parcel shall not be enlarged upon or modified
except to create landscaping, fencing, curb, gutter and sidewalk, road widening
or minimum off street parking that will provide a safer and more compatible
facility.
   C.   Any change of a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use shall be
a conditional use and subject to provisions of chapter 11 of this title, except
that the proposed nonconforming use need not conform to the County Master Plan.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-9: CHANGE OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE TO CONFORMING USE:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the nonconforming use of a
building or structure may not be changed except to a conforming use; but where
such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a
nonconforming use. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-10: EXPANSION OF USE PERMITTED:
A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the
existing building in which it is conducted at the time the use became
nonconforming. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-11: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time the ordinance became
effective, may be continued; provided, that no such nonconforming use of land
shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining
property; and provided, that if such nonconforming use of land or any portion
thereof is abandoned or changed for a period of one (1) year or more, any
future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
title. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-10-12: ABANDONMENT:
A nonconforming use shall be deemed abandoned if said use has not been applied
to the premises during any twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 11
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
8-11-1: Purpose
8-11-2: Conditional Use Permit
8-11-3: Special Requirements
8-11-4: Landscape Requirements Pertaining To Site Approval Of Commercial,
Industrial, Residential Planned Unit Development And Cluster (Open Space Only)
Subdivisions
8-11-5: Appeals
8-11-6: Inspection
8-11-7: Time Limit
8-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow the proper integration into the County
of uses which may be suitable only in certain locations in the County or zoning
district, or only if such uses are designed or laid out on the site in a
particular manner. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-11-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional
uses in the district regulations or elsewhere in this title. A conditional use
permit may be revoked upon failure in compliance with conditions precedent to
the original approval of the permit.
   A.   Application: Application for a conditional use permit shall be made by
the property owner or certified agent thereof to the Planning Commission.
   B.   Accompanying Documents: Detailed site plans drawn to scale and other
drawings necessary to assist the Planning Commission in arriving at an
appropriate decision shall accompany the application.
   C.   Fee: The fee for any conditional use permit shall be as specified by
the Board of County Commissioners, no part of which shall be refunded.
   D.   Public Hearing: No public hearing need be held; however, a hearing may
be held when the Planning Commission shall deem such a hearing to be necessary
and in the public interest.
      1.   The Planning Commission may hold the hearing.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall have a record of the hearing, together
with a report of findings and recommendations relative thereto, for its
consideration of the proposed conditional uses.
      3.   Such hearing, if deemed necessary, shall be held not more than sixty
(60) days from the date of application. The particular time and place shall be
established by the Planning Commission.
      4.   The Planning Commission shall publish a notice of hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the County not less than ten (10) days
prior to date of said hearing. Failure of property owners to receive notice of
said hearing shall in no way affect the validity of action taken.
   E.   Determination:
      1.   The Planning Commission may permit a conditional use to be located
within any zone district in which the particular conditional use is permitted
by the zoning district regulations of this title. In authorizing any
conditional use, the Planning Commission shall impose such requirements and
conditions as required by law and any additional conditions as may be necessary
for the protection of adjacent properties and the public welfare.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall establish policies regarding
landscaping, fencing, lighting, ingress-egress, the height of buildings, etc.,
to ensure consistency in the issuance of conditional use permits.
      3.   The Planning Commission shall not authorize a conditional use permit
unless the evidence presented is such as to establish:
         a.   The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or
desirable to provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general
well being of the neighborhood and the community; and
         b.   The proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions
specified in this title for such use; and
         c.   The proposed use will conform to the intent of the County Master
Plan; and
         d.   Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case
and conditions imposed, be detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of
persons, not injurious to property and improvements in the community, but will
be compatible with and complementary to the existing surroundings, uses,
buildings and structures when considering the following zones:
            (1)   Residential and rural zones:
               (A) Will the proposed use generate enough traffic to be
detrimental to the immediate neighborhood?
               (B) Will the proposed development overload the carrying capacity
for which local streets were designed?
               (C) Will internal traffic circulation adversely affect adjacent
residential properties?
               (D) Will the proposed signs adversely affect the development
itself or the overall aesthetics or the general area?
               (E) Will the proposed landscaping be sufficient to enhance the
aesthetic acceptability of the development?
            (2)   Commercial zones:
               (A) Will traffic ingress and egress adversely affect the general
traffic patterns in the area?
               (B) Will building location create a pedestrian traffic hazard by
causing blind approaches for pedestrians?
               (C) Will building design be compatible with or complementary to
already established adjacent structures?
               (D) If the development is adjacent to a residential zone or use,
will the building location, lighting, parking or traffic circulation adversely
affect the adjacent residential use or zone?
            (3)   Manufacturing zones:
               (A) Will heavy vehicle traffic adversely affect adjacent
residential or commercial properties?
               (B) If the proposed use emits tolerable pollution of any type,
will the prevailing breezes and winds direct the pollutant toward residential
or commercial properties in the immediate area?
               (C) Will landscaping add aesthetic acceptance to the proposed
development?
               (D) Will proposed signs be in good taste and not create adverse
effects on adjacent residential or commercial properties? (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-
2017)
8-11-3: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The Planning Commission may establish conditions in addition to those outlined
in this chapter to meet the concerns of safety for persons and property, health
and sanitation, environment, master plan proposals, and neighborhood needs,
performance and administration. More specifically, the Planning Commission may
require:
   A.   Conditions Relating To Safety For Persons And Property:
      1.   Building elevations and grading plans which will prevent or minimize
floodwater damage, where property may be subject to flooding.
      2.   The relocation, covering or fencing of irrigation ditches, drainage
channels and other potentially attractive nuisances existing on or adjacent to
the property.
      3.   Increased setback distances from lot lines where the Planning
Commission determines it to be necessary to ensure the public safety and to
ensure compatibility with the intended characteristics of the district as
outlined in this title.
      4.   Appropriate design, construction and location of structures,
buildings and facilities in relation to property and limitations and/or
restrictions of the use and/or location of uses due to special site conditions,
including, but not limited to, geologically hazardous areas, floodplains, fault
zones, landslide areas.
      5.   Limitations and control of the number, location, color, size,
height, lighting and landscaping of outdoor advertising signs and structures in
relation to the creation of traffic hazards and appearance and harmony with
adjacent development.
      6.   Plans for the location, arrangement and dimensions of truck loading
and unloading facilities.
      7.   Construction of curbs, gutters, drainage culverts, sidewalks,
streets, fire hydrants and streetlighting.
   B.   Conditions Relating To Health And Sanitation:
      1.   A guarantee of sufficient water to serve the intended land use and a
water delivery system meeting standards adopted by the County.
      2.   Construction of water mains, sewer mains and drainage facilities
serving the proposed use, in sizes necessary to protect existing utility users
in the district and to provide for an orderly development in the County.
      3.   Other requirements ensuring the health, safety and welfare of
residents within the County.
   C.   Conditions Relating To Environmental Concerns:
      1.   Limitations and/or restrictions on the use and/or location of uses
in sensitive areas due to soils capabilities, wildlife and plant life.
      2.   Processes for the control, elimination or prevention of land, water
or air pollution; the prevention of soil erosion and the control of
objectionable odors and noise.
      3.   The planting of ground cover or other surfacing to prevent dust and
erosion.
      4.   Restructuring of the land and planting of the same, as directed by
the Planning Commission, when the conditional use involves cutting and/or
filling the land and where such land would be adversely affected if not
restructured.
   D.   Conditions Relating To Compliance With Intent Of Comprehensive Plan And
Characteristics Of Vicinity (Or Neighborhood):
      1.   The removal of structures, debris or plant materials, incompatible
with the intended characteristics of the district outlined in this title.
      2.   The screening of yards or other areas as protection from obnoxious
land uses and activities.
      3.   Landscaping to ensure compatibility with the intended
characteristics of the district as outlined in this title.
      4.   Limitations or controls on the location, height and materials of
walls, fences, hedges and screen plantings to ensure harmony with adjacent
development or to conceal storage areas, utility installations or other
unsightly development.
      5.   Provision of or construction of recreational facilities necessary to
satisfy needs of the conditional use.
      6.   Population density and intensity of land use limitations where land
capability and/or vicinity relationships make it appropriate to do so to
protect health, safety and welfare.
      7.   Other improvements which serve the property in question and which
may compensate in part or in whole for possible adverse impacts to the district
from the proposed conditions use.
   E.   Conditions Relating To Performance: A bond or other valuable assurance
in favor of the County in an amount of said bond or other valuable assurance
shall not exceed the amount calculated by the developer's engineer and approved
by the local engineer as necessary to assure compliance with all conditions.
   F.   Specific Short And Long Range Plans Of Development:
      1.   Will the building location adversely affect adjacent residential and
commercial property?
      2.   Will ingress and egress be sufficient to handle intended traffic and
will internal traffic circulation adversely affect the general area traffic
circulation?
      3.   Will the proposed use comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in this title for such use?
      4.   Will the proposed use conform to the goals, policies and governing
principles of the Master Plan for the County? (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-11-4: LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO SITE APPROVAL OF COMMERCIAL,
INDUSTRIAL, RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT AND CLUSTER (OPEN SPACE ONLY)
SUBDIVISIONS:
The Planning Commission will require commercial, industrial and residential
planned unit development and cluster (open space only) subdivisions be included
on a site plan of a scale appropriate to the project of the following:
   A.   Where appropriate, a performance bond will be required to ensure
compliance with approved site plans.
   B.   Plant material locations with names.
   C.   Size and location and type of construction of all walkways and
landscaping.
   D.   Final grading plan, including areas of berming.
   E.   A plant list which specifies the names, number of each, and size of
each to be planted.
   F.   A sprinkling system engineered to maintain the landscaped areas. (Ord.
17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-11-5: APPEALS:
Any person shall have a right to appeal to the Board of Adjustment any decision
rendered by the Planning Commission by filing, in writing and in triplicate,
the reasons for said appeal with the Board of Adjustment at any regular meeting
thereof within thirty (30) days following the date upon which the decision from
which appeal is being taken is made by the Planning Commission. After receiving
said appeal, the Board of Adjustment may reaffirm the Planning Commission's
decision or set a date for a public hearing.
   A.   Notification Of Planning Commission: The Board of Adjustment shall
notify the Planning Commission of the date of said review in writing at least
seven (7) days preceding the date set for hearing so that the Planning
Commission may prepare the record for the hearing.
   B.   Determination Of Board Of Adjustment: The Board of Adjustment, after
proper review of the decision of the Planning Commission, may affirm, reverse,
alter or remand for further review and consideration, any action taken by the
Planning Commission. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-11-6: INSPECTION:
Following the issuance of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission,
the building inspector shall approve an application for a building permit
pursuant to this title and shall ensure that development is undertaken and
completed in compliance with the permits. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-11-7: TIME LIMIT:
Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within a
maximum period of one (1) year of its issuance, the conditional use permit
shall expire. The Planning Commission may grant a maximum extension of six (6)
months under exceptional circumstances. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 12
MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Placement Of Recreational Vehicles And Mobile Homes
8-12-2: Mobile Home Park Regulations
8-12-3: Recreational Vehicle Park Regulations
8-12-4: Additional Regulations
8-12-1: PLACEMENT OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   Recreational Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to place any recreational
vehicle on any lot or parcel of land in the County and to use the same for
permanent (hooked up to utilities) human habitation, except when located in a
recreational vehicle park.
   B.   Mobile Homes: It shall be unlawful to place a mobile home on any lot or
parcel of land in the County, and to use the same for human habitation, except
in compliance with one (1) or more of the following conditions:
      1.   Temporary: When temporarily located on a lot for which a building
permit has been issued, and a building is being constructed, and is connected
to approved water and sewer facilities, but not to exceed one (1) year;
      2.   Licensed Park: When placed in a licensed mobile home park;
      3.   Lot; Compliance Required: When placed on a lot that complies with
all the regulations of the zone in which the mobile home is located, provided:
         a.   Residential dwellings are a permitted use in the zone, and the
mobile home is connected to an approved water supply and domestic sewage
disposal facility;
         b.   The mobile home is placed upon a permanent foundation and is
skirted with brick, masonry, or a continuation of the facing material of the
mobile home;
         c.   Will be entered upon the tax rolls of the County as real
property, as evidenced by a letter or other proof from the County Assessor;
         d.   The mobile home is certified by the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD), or the State of Utah, that it has been inspected
and has attached to the mobile home a HUD or State of Utah inspection shield.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-12-2: MOBILE HOME PARK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted: The owners of a tract of land not less than eight (8) acres,
which land lies in a location which is suitable and appropriate, taking into
consideration existing conditions, may construct a mobile home park thereon,
upon compliance with regulations and restrictions, as hereinafter set forth,
and after approval of such mobile home park by the County Commission.
   B.   Application: Application for a mobile home park shall be submitted with
the following:
      1.   Topography: The topography represented by contours shown at not
greater intervals than two feet (2'), when required by the Planning Commission.
      2.   Layout: The proposed street and mobile home space layout.
      3.   Reserved Spaces: Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and
open spaces.
      4.   Tabulations: Tabulations showing percent of area to be devoted to
parks, playgrounds and open space, number of mobile homes, and total area in
the mobile home park.
      5.   Parking: Proposed location and number of parking spaces.
      6.   Landscaping: Generalized landscaping plan, including water, electric
and gas lines, fire hydrant locations, and sewer lines.
      7.   Stormwater: Storm drainage facilities and disposal plan for
stormwater runoff.
      8.   State, County Approval: Written approval of the State Division of
Health and Tri-County Health Department.
      9.   Applicant Information: Name, address, telephone number of applicant.
      10.   Other: Any other data that the Planning Commission may require.
   C.   Construction Drawings: Three (3) copies of detailed construction
drawings shall be supplied to and approved by the County engineer, prior to
final approval by the County Commission. Such construction drawings shall be
drawn by a licensed engineer, and shall show the following:
      1.   Water, Sewer Lines: Profile and location of water and sewer lines.
      2.   Water Valves, Hydrants: Location of water valves and fire hydrants.
      3.   Water Meters: Location and size of water meters.
      4.   Sewer Manholes: Location and size of sewer manholes.
      5.   Stormwater: Stormwater disposal plan.
   D.   Standards And Requirements: The development of a mobile home park shall
conform to the following standards and requirements:
      1.   Ownership: The area shall be in one (1) ownership, or, if in several
ownerships, the application for the approval of the mobile home park shall be
filed jointly by all owners of the property included in the plan.
      2.   Density: The density of a mobile home park shall not exceed seven
(7) units per acre. Mobile homes may be clustered within the mobile home park;
provided, that no single mobile home space shall be smaller in area than four
thousand (4,000) square feet.
The remaining land not contained in individual lots, roads or parking, shall be
set aside and developed as parks, playgrounds and service areas for the common
use and enjoyment of the occupants of the development and visitors thereto.
      3.   Open Space: Not less than ten percent (10%) of the gross area of the
mobile home park shall be set aside as playground, or recreation area for the
joint use of occupants. The land covered by vehicular roadways, sidewalks, off
street parking, or areas not suitable for playground use, shall not be
construed as part of the area required for parks and playgrounds. Ten percent
(10%) of the lot area shall also be set aside for recreational vehicle storage
area.
      4.   Distance: No mobile home or add on shall be located closer than
fifteen feet (15') from the nearest portion of any other mobile home or add on.
      5.   Landscaping: All areas not covered by mobile homes, hard surfacing,
buildings, off street parking space or driveways, shall be planted in lawns,
trees and shrubs, or otherwise landscaped, except that natural drainageways may
be left in the natural state.
      6.   Surfacing: All off street parking spaces and driveways shall be
surfaced before the adjacent mobile home spaces may be occupied.
      7.   Perimeter Space; Fencing: A strip of land at least fifteen feet
(15') wide on the sides, and thirty feet (30') in the front and rear of the
mobile home park, shall be left unoccupied by mobile homes, and shall be
planted and maintained in lawns, shrubs and trees designed to afford privacy to
the development. A six foot (6') chainlink or other approved fence around the
mobile home park shall be required.
      8.   Receptacles: All storage and solid waste receptacles outside of the
confines of a mobile home must be housed in a closed structure or closed
container.
      9.   Roadways: Roadways shall be surfaced, and of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic as follows:
         a.   For one-way with no parking: Minimum eighteen feet (18') in
width.
         b.   For two-way traffic with no parking: Minimum thirty feet (30') in
width, or larger, as may be required by the County Commission.
         c.   For entrance streets: Minimum of thirty six feet (36') in width.
There shall be no more than two (2) entrances from the park onto any one (1)
street. Entrances shall be no closer than twenty five feet (25') from each
other, nor closer than twenty five feet (25') to the corner of an intersection,
or as otherwise required by the Planning Commission.
      10.   Access: Access shall be provided to each mobile home stand by means
of an accessway reserved for maneuvering mobile homes from interior private
roads.
      11.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be provided at the
rate of two (2) parking spaces per mobile home space contained within the
mobile home park. In no case shall the parking space be located greater than
one hundred feet (100') away from the mobile home space it is designed to
serve.
      12.   Code Compliance: In addition to meeting the above requirements and
conforming to the other laws of the County, all mobile home parks shall also
conform to requirements set forth in the Code of Camp Trailer Court, Hotel,
Motel and Resort Sanitation Regulations adopted by the Utah State Board of
Health, and to the Fire Prevention Code, which codes are hereby adopted by
reference, and all restrictions, regulations and notations contained therein
shall be made a part of this chapter as fully set forth herein. In event of any
conflict between said regulations or codes and this chapter, this chapter shall
take precedence.
   E.   Utilities And Other Services: Utility lines and equipment shall be
located and constructed in conformity with good engineering and construction
practices, and shall be in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances or
codes of the State:
      1.   Sewer: The mobile home park shall be served by a private sewer
system, or served by an approved sewage disposal system. Main sewer collector
lines shall not be installed in areas (such as underneath mobile home pads)
that will limit their access in designated utility easement areas.
      2.   Water:
         a.   A public supply of water shall be obtained from an approved
public water system.
         b.   An adequate amount of water shall be piped to each mobile home
space through a private system of a design acceptable to the County engineer.
      3.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants of a design and in sufficient numbers,
as approved by the County engineer and/or Fire Department, shall be installed
according to the County specifications.
      4.   Electric, Telephone: All electric, telephone and other service lines
to each mobile home lot shall be underground and shall comply with all
currently adopted State and local laws and regulations.
      5.   Liquid Or Gaseous Fuels:
         a.   Any liquid fuel storage shall be located in tanks at a distance
away from any mobile home lot, as determined safe by the building inspector
and/or Fire Chief.
         b.   All fuel lines shall be underground, and, if metered, said meters
shall be arranged in a uniform manner.
      6.   Streetlighting: Streetlighting shall be provided in sufficient
number and intensity to permit safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at
night.
      7.   Refuse Handling And Receptacles: The storage, collection and
disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall be managed so as to create no
health hazards, rodent harborage or accident hazards. All refuse shall be
stored in containers provided in sufficient number and capacity to prevent any
refuse from overflowing or blowing away. Satisfactory container racks or
dumpsters shall be provided at permanent locations convenient to mobile home
spaces.
   F.   Planning Commission And County Commission Approval: The Planning
Commission shall review the plan and make a recommendation for approval,
disapproval or approval with conditions to the County Commission. In
considering the plan, the Planning Commission, among other things, shall make
sure that such development shall constitute a residential environment of
sustained desirability and stability, and that it will not adversely affect
amenities in the surrounding area. The Planning Commission may recommend
changes to be made in the plan and development standards in excess of the
minimum standards contained in this chapter, such as walls, fences, buffers,
setbacks, greater amounts of landscaping or parking spaces, etc. Such changes
may be imposed as conditions of approval where it is determined by the County
Commission that such standards are necessary to ensure that the mobile home
park will mix harmoniously with adjoining or nearby uses.
   G.   Guarantees:
      1.   Required: Adequate and reasonable guarantees shall be required for
installation of the landscaping, including grass and other required
improvements, as set forth in this section. Guarantees may be in the form of a
bond, a mortgage on real estate or other acceptable form in the sum to be
determined by the County Attorney.
      2.   Agent For Service Of Process: In any case, when a mobile home park
is owned by more than one (1) natural person, the developer shall establish and
appoint an agent for the purpose of service of process, which the agent shall
be authorized to receive, process and represent fully the interests of the
owners in respect to continuing management and maintenance of the mobile home
park.
      3.   License: Prerequisite to the operation of any mobile home park in
the County shall be the obtaining of an annual license. It shall be unlawful to
operate a mobile home park without first obtaining a license, and said license
shall be refused or revoked upon failure of the owner and/or operator to
maintain the park in accordance with the standards and requirements as herein
set forth.
   H.   Record Final Plat: After receiving final approval of the mobile home
plat by the County Commission, the approved plat shall be recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder. The final plat shall be prepared by a registered
engineer, architect or landscape architect. No building permit shall be issued
for said mobile home park until final plans have been approved by the County
Commission and recorded with the County Recorder and a financial guarantee
posted guaranteeing that required improvements will be installed without cost
to the County. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-12-3: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Recreational vehicle parks are a conditional use in
the CS, CH and CG Zones. All such installations shall be allowed only after
approval of the County Commission and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, subject to the restrictions and conditions contained in this
chapter.
   B.   Plan Required: Before a permit shall be issued for a recreational
vehicle park, the overall plan of the park must be submitted to the Planning
Commission for its review. The plan shall show:
      1.   Layout: Proposed road layout and recreational vehicle space.
      2.   Open Space: Proposed reservation for parks, playgrounds and other
open space.
      3.   Landscaping: A generalized landscaped plan.
      4.   Other: Any other data that the Planning Commission may require.
   C.   Standards And Requirements: The recreational vehicle park shall conform
to the following standards and requirements:
      1.   Minimum Size: Recreational vehicle parks shall be minimum of four
(4) acres in size.
      2.   Entrances, Exits: Entrances and exits from the recreational vehicle
park shall be by forward motion only.
      3.   Mobile Homes Prohibited: Mobile homes, as defined in section
8-2-3 of this title, shall not be allowed in recreational vehicle parks.
      4.   Location Of Exits And Entrances: No exit or entrance from the
recreational vehicle park shall be through a residential zone, and no entrance
or exit shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to the intersection of
two (2) streets.
      5.   Setbacks: All recreational vehicles shall be set back at least
thirty feet (30') from any public street right-of-way, except for State or
Federal highways, where setbacks shall be fifty feet (50').
      6.   Roadways: All one-way roadways shall be at least twelve feet (12')
in width and all two-ways at least twenty feet (20') in width, and all roadways
shall be surfaced.
      7.   Landscaping: All areas within the park which are not surfaced,
including the thirty foot (30') setback space, shall be landscaped and
maintained with lawns, trees and shrubs, and designed to provide privacy and
noise containment.
      8.   Space Size: Each recreational vehicle space shall be at least twenty
five feet (25') in width and at least fifty feet (50') in length. No
recreational vehicle or add on shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15')
from another recreational vehicle or add on.
      9.   Perimeter Fencing: A minimum six foot (6') high chainlink or other
approved fence shall be installed around the perimeter of the recreational
vehicle park.
      10.   Open Space: At least twenty percent (20%) of the total area shall
be maintained in open green space.
      11.   License Required: Prerequisite to the operation of any recreational
vehicle park in the County shall be the obtaining of a business license. The
license shall be issued only after inspection by the building inspector. It
shall be unlawful to operate a recreational vehicle park without first
obtaining a license, and said license shall be refused or revoked upon failure
of the owner and/or operator to maintain the park in accordance with the
standards and requirements of the County.
      12.   Code Compliance: In addition to meeting the above requirements, all
recreational vehicle parks shall conform to the requirements set forth in the
Code of Camp, Trailer Court, Hotel, Motel and Resort Sanitation Requirements,
adopted by the State Board of Health, and shall also conform to the Fire
Prevention Code, which codes have been adopted by the County. (Ord. 17-16, 7-
26-2017)
8-12-4: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Storage Of Recreational Vehicles: Nothing in this chapter shall be
interpreted to prohibit storage of a recreational vehicle when not in use on
property of the owner, so long as the recreational vehicle is not utilized as a
dwelling. Recreational vehicles shall not be stored on property so as to
obstruct the view of traffic, or to create a nuisance for adjoining property
owners.
   B.   Storage Setback: All recreational vehicles shall be stored at least
thirty feet (30') back from any public street in any residential zone.
   C.   Add On Or Addition Requires Consent: No add on or additions shall be
allowed in any recreational vehicle or mobile home park without prior consent
of the building inspector.
   D.   Existing, Nonconforming Recreational Vehicle Parks: Existing
recreational vehicle parks not in compliance with this chapter shall constitute
a nonconforming use, but shall be subject to health and sanitary requirements,
as provided for in section
8-12-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 13
WIND SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Purpose
8-13-2: Definitions
8-13-3: Minor Wind Energy Systems
8-13-4: Small Wind Systems
8-13-5: Large Wind Energy Systems And Projects
8-13-6: Temporary Meteorological Towers (Met Towers)
8-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum requirements and
regulations for the placement, construction and modification of large wind
energy systems, small wind energy systems, minor wind energy systems and wind
metering towers and equipment, as defined herein, while promoting the safe,
effective and efficient use of such systems. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED: A wind energy system or project shall be considered abandoned when,
once installed, fails to operate for twenty four (24) months.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: A person designated by the Board of County Commissioners to
assume certain duties of said Board.
HEIGHT: The height of a wind turbine measured from natural grade to the tip of
the rotor blade at its highest point.
LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: All equipment, machinery and structures utilized in
connection with the conversion of wind to electricity. This includes, but is
not limited to, storage, electrical collection and supply equipment,
transformers, service and access roads, and one (1) or more wind turbines,
which has a rated nameplate capacity greater than one hundred (100) kilowatts
(kW).
METEOROLOGICAL TOWER (MET TOWER): A temporary tower, housing or supporting wind
measuring equipment for the purpose of establishing the viability of the wind
generated energy by measuring and monitoring wind velocity, direction, shear,
duration, intensity and regularity.
MINOR WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system consisting of one (1)
permanent structure, including a wind turbine and tower and associated control
and/or conversion electronics which have a rated capacity of less than twenty
(20) kilowatts and providing wind generated electrical power to be used
primarily for on site consumption.
PERMIT GRANTING AUTHORITY: The permit granting authority shall be the Board of
County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners may, at their
discretion, designate the Planning Commission or building inspector as the
permit granting authority, as designated by this title, or by law for the
issuance of permits, or by this chapter for the issuance of permits to
construct and operate small wind energy systems.
RATED NAMEPLATE CAPACITY: The maximum rated output of electric power production
equipment. This output is typically specified by the manufacturer with a
"nameplate" on the equipment rated in watts (W) or British thermal units
(Btus).
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: All equipment, machinery and structures utilized in
connection with the conversion of wind to electricity. This includes, but is
not limited to, storage, electrical collection and supply equipment,
transformers, service and access roads, and one (1) or more wind turbines,
which has a rated nameplate capacity of one hundred (100) kilowatts or less.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: A permit provided by the permitting authority for
nonconforming small wind systems (e.g., a small wind system that does not meet
the criteria for small wind systems set forth by this chapter).
ZONING: Ordinances and bylaws adopted by a county to regulate the use of land,
buildings and structures to the full extent of the independent constitutional
powers of states to protect the health, safety and general welfare of its
present and future inhabitants. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-13-3: MINOR WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Design Standards:
      1.   Height: The height of minor wind energy systems shall not exceed one
hundred feet (100').
      2.   Setbacks: Small wind energy systems shall be set back at a distance
equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the total height of the system from
all overhead utility lines, property lines and public roads or public rights-
of-way.
      3.   Setback Waivers: The building inspector may reduce the minimum
setback distance if written permission is granted by the permit granting
authority, or with a signed agreement from abutting neighbors, on the condition
that public rights- of-way and power lines are not impacted by the location.
      4.   Minimum Blade Height: The minimum height of the lowest extent of a
turbine blade shall be fifteen feet (15') above the ground.
      5.   Color And Finish: The wind energy system shall be a neutral color
that blends with the environment.
      6.   Lighting: Minor wind energy systems shall be lighted only if
required by the Federal Aviation Administration. Obstacle collision avoidance
systems shall be used to minimize the time lights remain on when they are
required, subject to FAA approval. Lighting of other parts of the minor wind
energy system shall be limited to that required for safety and operational
purposes.
      7.   Signage And Advertising: Signs and advertising shall be restricted
to reasonable identification of the manufacturer, operator of the minor wind
energy system, utility and safety signs.
      8.   Access: No tower shall have a climbing apparatus within ten feet
(10') of the ground. All access doors or accessways to towers and electrical
equipment shall be inaccessible by the public.
      9.   Sound: The minor wind energy system and associated equipment shall
not exceed sixty (60) dBA as measured from the nearest neighboring inhabitable
structure.
   B.   Siting Conditions And Property Maintenance:
      1.   Land Clearing, Soil Erosion And Habitat Impacts: If the permit
granting authority adopts standards for land clearing, soil erosion control and
habitat impact mitigation and/or habitat reclamation, by ordinance or
resolution, those same standards shall apply.
      2.   Minimum Lot Size: Minimum lot size for minor wind energy systems
shall be determined pursuant to the setback requirements of subsection A2 of
this section.
      3.   System Conditions: The applicant shall maintain the minor wind
energy system in good condition. Maintenance shall include, but not be limited
to, painting, mechanical/electrical repairs, structural repairs and security
measures.
      4.   Removal And Decommissioning Requirements: Any minor wind energy
system, which has reached the end of its useful life or has been abandoned,
shall be removed. A minor wind energy system shall be considered abandoned when
it fails to operate for twenty four (24) months. Upon a notice of abandonment
issued by the building inspector, the minor wind energy system owner will have
sixty (60) days to provide sufficient evidence that the system has not been
abandoned, or the permit granting authority shall have the authority to enter
the owner's property and remove the system at the owner's expense.
   C.   Permit Granting Authority Issued Permits:
      1.   Building Permits: Minor wind energy systems shall be constructed as
provided in this section by first obtaining a building permit, or by first
applying for and receiving a waiver, from the appropriate permit granting
authority. Primary demand for power produced by minor wind energy systems
herein must be on site consumption.
      2.   Modifications: Any physical modification to an existing and
permitted wind energy system that materially alters the size and/or type of
wind turbines or other equipment shall require a permit modification under this
section. Replacement of an already permitted turbine with a similar size and
height will not require a permit modification.
      3.   Expiration: A permit issued pursuant to this section shall expire
if: a) the minor wind energy system is not installed and functioning within
twenty four (24) months from the date the permit is issued; or b) the minor
wind energy system is abandoned.
      4.   Violations: It is unlawful for any person to construct, install or
operate a minor wind energy system that is not in compliance with this section
or with any condition contained in a building permit issued pursuant to this
section.
      5.   Administration And Enforcement:
         a.   This section shall be administered and enforced by the building
inspector or other official as designated by the permit granting authority.
         b.   The building inspector may enter any property for which a
building permit has been issued under this section to conduct an inspection to
determine whether the conditions stated in the permit have been met.
      6.   Penalty: Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this
section or a building permit issued pursuant to this section, shall be subject
to enforcement and penalties as allowed by applicable law.
   D.   Compliance With Laws, Ordinances And Regulations: The construction and
operation of all such proposed small wind energy systems shall be consistent
with all applicable local, State and Federal requirements, including all
applicable safety, construction, environmental, electrical, communications and
FAA aviation requirements. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-13-4: SMALL WIND SYSTEMS:
   A.   Design Standards:
      1.   Height: The height of small wind energy systems shall not exceed two
hundred feet (200') without prior approval from the permit granting authority.
      2.   Setbacks: Small wind energy systems shall be set back at a distance
equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the total height of system from all
inhabited structures, overhead utility lines, property lines and public roads
or public rights-of-way.
      3.   Setback Waivers: The building inspector may reduce the minimum
setback distance if written permission is granted by the permit granting
authority, or with a signed agreement from abutting neighbors, on the condition
that public rights- of-way and power lines are not impacted by the location.
      4.   Minimum Blade Height: The minimum height of the lowest extent of a
turbine blade shall be thirty feet (30') above the ground.
      5.   Color And Finish: The wind energy system shall be a neutral color
that blends with the environment.
      6.   Lighting: Small wind energy systems shall be lighted only if
required by the Federal Aviation Administration. Obstacle collision avoidance
systems shall be used to minimize the time lights remain on when they are
required, subject to FAA approval. Lighting of other parts of the small wind
energy system shall be limited to that required for safety and operational
purposes.
      7.   Signage And Advertising: Signs and advertising shall be restricted
to reasonable identification of the manufacturer, operator of the small wind
energy system, utility, and safety signs.
      8.   Access: No tower shall have a climbing apparatus within ten feet
(10') of the ground. All access doors or accessways to towers and electrical
equipment shall be inaccessible by the public.
      9.   Sound: The small wind energy system and associated equipment shall
not exceed sixty (60) dBA as measured from the nearest neighboring inhabitable
structure.
   B.   Siting Conditions And Property Maintenance:
      1.   Land Clearing, Soil Erosion And Habitat Impacts: If the permit
granting authority adopts standards for land clearing, soil erosion control and
habitat impact mitigation and/or habitat reclamation, by ordinance or
resolution, those same standards shall apply. If the permit granting authority
does not adopt more specific standards, the following shall apply. Clearing of
natural vegetation shall be limited to that which is necessary for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the small wind energy system and is
otherwise prescribed by applicable laws, regulations and ordinances. Once the
system is operational, any land that has been disturbed and is not necessary
for the functioning of the system shall be reclaimed with natural vegetation
immediately. Soil erosion is to be mitigated by the use of silt fencing, the
captured product of which can be used in the vegetation reclamation.
      2.   Minimum Lot Size: Small wind energy systems that are less than
eighty feet (80') in height may be constructed on lots one (1) acre or less. If
the small wind energy system is greater than eighty feet (80') in height, the
system must be constructed on a lot greater than one (1) acre.
      3.   System Conditions: The applicant shall maintain the small wind
energy system in good condition. Maintenance shall include, but not be limited
to, painting, mechanical/electrical repairs, structural repairs and security
measures.
      4.   Removal And Decommissioning Requirements: Any small wind energy
system, which has reached the end of its useful life or has been abandoned,
shall be removed. A small wind energy system shall be considered abandoned when
it fails to operate for twenty four (24) months. Upon a notice of abandonment
issued by the building inspector, the small wind energy system owner will have
sixty (60) days to provide sufficient evidence that the system has not been
abandoned, or the permit granting authority shall have the authority to enter
the owner's property and remove the system at the owner's expense.
      5.   Reclamation: Once the system has been removed, the owner is then
responsible for land reclamation using the natural vegetation that was removed
or disturbed upon construction of the project. To the greatest extent possible,
the land shall be fully returned to its natural state within five (5) years of
the removal and decommissioning of the project.
   C.   Permit Granting Authority Issued Permits:
      1.   Building Permits: Small wind energy systems shall be constructed as
provided in this section by first obtaining a building permit from the
appropriate permit granting authority. Demand for the power produced by wind
energy systems herein must be demonstrated prior to issuance of any building
permit. Demand should be demonstrated by providing the permit granting
authority with a contract for sale of the power produced or a memorandum of
understanding between the applicant and a buyer, or demonstration that a
majority of the power produced will be used by the applicant or some other
reasonable form demonstrating demand.
      2.   Modifications: Any physical modification to an existing and
permitted wind energy system that materially alters the size and/or type of
wind turbines or other equipment shall require a permit modification under this
section. Replacement of an already permitted turbine with a similar size and
height will not require a permit modification.
      3.   Conditional Use Permits (CUP): A conditional use permit may be
granted in the case where a proposed small wind energy system or project does
not satisfy the standard criteria of the building permit set forth under this
section. The applicant must then seek review and petition the permit granting
authority for a conditional use permit. This CUP variance from the standard
building permit criteria will only be applicable to that specific nonconforming
project.
      4.   Expiration: A permit issued pursuant to this section shall expire
if: a) the small wind energy system is not installed and functioning within
twenty four (24) months from the date the permit is issued; or b) the small
wind energy system is abandoned.
      5.   Violations: It is unlawful for any person to construct, install or
operate a small wind energy system that is not in compliance with this section
or with any condition contained in a building permit issued pursuant to this
section. Small wind energy systems installed prior to the adoption of the
ordinance codified herein are exempt.
      6.   Administration And Enforcement:
         a.   This section shall be administered and enforced by the building
inspector or other official as designated by the permit granting authority.
         b.   The building inspector may enter any property for which a
building permit has been issued under this section to conduct an inspection to
determine whether the conditions stated in the permit have been met.
      7.   Penalty: Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this
section or a building permit issued pursuant to this section shall be subject
to enforcement and penalties as allowed by applicable law.
   D.   Compliance With Laws, Ordinances And Regulations: The construction and
operation of all such proposed small wind energy systems shall be consistent
with all applicable local, State and Federal requirements, including all
applicable safety, construction, environmental, electrical, communications and
FAA aviation requirements. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-13-5: LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS AND PROJECTS:
   A.   Design Standards:
      1.   Height: The height of large wind energy systems shall not exceed
four hundred fifty feet (450') without prior approval from the permit granting
authority.
      2.   Setbacks: Large wind energy systems shall be set back a distance
equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the total height of system from all
inhabited structures, overhead utility lines, property lines and public roads
or public rights-of-way.
      3.   Setback Waivers: The building inspector may reduce the minimum
setback distance if written permission is granted by the permit granting
authority.
      4.   Minimum Blade Height: The minimum height of the lowest extent of a
turbine blade shall be thirty feet (30') above the ground surface.
      5.   Color And Finish: The large wind energy system shall be a neutral
color that blends with the environment.
      6.   Lighting: Large wind energy systems and projects shall be lighted
only if required by the Federal Aviation Administration. Obstacle collision
avoidance systems shall be used to minimize the time lights remain on when they
are required, subject to FAA approval. Lighting of other parts of the large
wind energy system shall be limited to that required for safety and operational
purposes.
      7.   Signage And Advertising: Signs and advertising shall be restricted
to reasonable identification of the manufacturer, operator of the large wind
energy system, utility, and safety signs.
      8.   Access: No tower shall have a climbing apparatus that is external of
the pole, within ten feet (10') of the ground. All access doors or accessways
to towers and electrical equipment shall be kept locked for safety purposes.
      9.   Sound: The large wind energy system and associated equipment shall
not exceed sixty (60) dBA as measured from the nearest neighboring inhabitable
structure.
   B.   Siting Conditions And Property Maintenance:
      1.   Land Clearing, Soil Erosion And Habitat Impacts: If the permit
granting authority adopts standards for land clearing, soil erosion control and
habitat impact mitigation and/or habitat reclamation, those same standards
shall apply. If the permit granting authority does not have previously
prescribed standards, the following shall apply. Clearing of natural vegetation
shall be limited to that which is necessary for the construction, operation and
maintenance of the large wind energy system and as otherwise prescribed by
applicable laws, regulations and ordinances. Once the system is operational,
any land that has been disturbed and is not necessary for the functioning of
the system shall be reclaimed with natural vegetation immediately. Soil erosion
is to be mitigated by the use of silt fencing, the captured product of which
can be used in the vegetation reclamation.
      2.   Minimum Lot Size: Large wind energy systems that are less than
eighty feet (80') in height may be constructed on lots one (1) acre or less. If
the large wind energy system is greater than eighty feet (80') in height, the
system must be constructed on a lot greater than one (1) acre.
      3.   System Conditions: The applicant shall maintain the large wind
energy system and/or project in good condition. Maintenance shall include, but
not be limited to, painting, structural repairs and security measures.
      4.   Removal And Decommissioning Requirements: Any large wind energy
system and/or project, which has reached the end of its useful life or has been
abandoned, shall be removed. A large wind energy system shall be considered
abandoned when it fails to operate for twenty four (24) months. Upon a notice
of abandonment issued by the building inspector, the large wind energy system
owner will have sixty (60) days to provide sufficient evidence that the system
has not been abandoned, or the permit granting authority shall have the
authority to enter the owner's property and remove the system at the owner's
expense.
      5.   Reclamation: Once the system has been removed, the owner is then
responsible for land reclamation using the natural vegetation that was removed
or disturbed upon construction of the project. To the greatest extent possible,
the land shall be fully returned to its natural state within five (5) years of
the removal and decommissioning of the project.
   C.   Permit Granting Authority Issued Permits:
      1.   Building Permits: Large wind energy systems shall be constructed as
provided in this section by first obtaining a building permit from the
appropriate permit granting authority. Permit applications for project
expansions shall be based on the total nameplate capacity including the
existing project. Demand for the power produced by wind energy systems herein
must be demonstrated prior to issuance of any building permit. Demand should be
demonstrated by providing the permit granting authority with a contract for
sale of the power produced or a memorandum of understanding between the
applicant and a buyer or demonstration that a majority of the power produced
will be used by the applicant or some other reasonable form demonstrating
demand.
      2.   Modifications: Any physical modification to an existing and
permitted wind energy system that materially alters the size and/or type of
wind turbines or other equipment shall require a permit modification under this
section. Replacement of an already permitted turbine with a similar size and
height will not require a permit modification.
      3.   Conditional Use Permits (CUP): A conditional use permit may be
granted in the case where a proposed large wind energy system or project does
not satisfy the standard criteria of the building permit set forth under this
section. The applicant must then seek review and petition the permit granting
authority for a conditional use permit. This CUP variance from the standard
building permit criteria will only be applicable to that specific nonconforming
project.
      4.   Expiration: A permit issued pursuant to this section shall expire
if: a) the large wind energy system is not installed and functioning within
twenty four (24) months from the date the permit is issued; or b) the large
wind energy system is abandoned.
      5.   Violations: It is unlawful for any person to construct, install or
operate a large wind energy system that is not in compliance with this section
or with any condition contained in a building permit issued pursuant to this
section. Large wind energy systems installed prior to the adoption of the
ordinance codified herein are exempt.
      6.   Administration And Enforcement:
         a.   This section shall be administered and enforced by the building
inspector or other official as designated by the permit granting authority.
         b.   The building inspector may enter any property for which a
building permit has been issued under this section to conduct an inspection to
determine whether the conditions stated in the permit have been met.
      7.   Penalty: Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this
section or a building permit issued pursuant to this section shall be subject
to enforcement and penalties as allowed by applicable law.
   D.   Compliance With Laws, Ordinances And Regulations: The construction and
operation of all such proposed large wind energy systems shall be consistent
with all applicable local, State and Federal requirements, including all
applicable safety, construction, environmental, electrical, communications and
FAA aviation requirements. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-13-6: TEMPORARY METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS (MET TOWERS):
   A.   Permitted Use By Rule: Met tower installations shall be considered a
permitted use in all zoning districts where the following criteria are met:
      1.   Applicants shall submit the following information to the permit
granting authority prior to commencing any installation or construction:
         a.   A site plan drawn at an appropriate scale with the following
information:
            (1)   The perimeter and dimensions of the property;
            (2)   The names and locations of all streets, roads or highways on
or contiguous to the property;
            (3)   The locations of all easements or rights-of-way on the
property;
            (4)   The names and locations of all rivers, streams or waterways
on or contiguous to the property;
            (5)   The use, location and dimension of all structures on the
property (include distance from all proposed structures to the property lines);
            (6)   A scale; and
            (7)   A north arrow.
      2.   In addition to other applicable provisions set forth in these
regulations, approval of met tower applications shall be subject to the
following requirements:
         a.   All necessary zoning certificates and building permits shall be
applied for and issued, and all structural reviews shall be completed by the
permit granting authority prior to construction.
         b.   The met tower shall be constructed in conformity with all
applicable FAA regulations and all FAA notices and approvals shall be received
and submitted to the permit granting authority prior to any construction.
         c.   Applicants shall furnish evidence that applicable rights- of-way
have been granted for access to the met tower across any private, State or BLM
lands. For BLM right-of-way grants, applicants may furnish a copy of the signed
BLM right-of-way grant application, together with evidence that applicable fees
have been tendered to the BLM.
         d.   The met tower shall be in place for a period not exceeding three
(3) years. Applicants shall provide the permit granting authority with ninety
(90) days prior written notice before removal of the tower.
         e.   In the event the applicant desires to relocate the met tower, the
applicant shall receive prior written approval from the permit granting
authority and furnish coordinates for the new tower location.
         f.   If the applicant desires to extend the tower usage period, a
request for an extension must be submitted in writing ninety (90) days prior to
the expiration of this permit to the permit granting authority for
consideration.
         g.   The met tower shall not physically obstruct or encumber any road,
power line or pipeline easement. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 14
SOLAR ELECTRICITY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8-14-1: Purpose
8-14-2: Definitions
8-14-3: Allowed Uses
8-14-4: Freestanding Solar Panels
8-14-5: Structurally Attached Solar Panels
8-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow the use of solar panels within the
County. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
specified herein:
COMMERCIAL SOLAR PANEL: A solar panel from which electricity is produced for
resale.
FREESTANDING SOLAR PANEL: A solar panel that is not permanently attached to any
other structure and one that does not rely upon any other structure for support
and/or stability.
NONCOMMERCIAL SOLAR PANEL: A solar panel from which electricity is produced for
on site consumption.
SOLAR PANEL: A device that converts light into electricity.
STRUCTURALLY ATTACHED SOLAR PANEL: A solar panel that is permanently attached
to any other structure and one that relies upon another structure for support
and/or stability. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-14-3: ALLOWED USES:
Solar structures shall be a permitted use in all zones, subject to all
applicable limitations in each respective zone, including, but not limited to,
setbacks, height restrictions and local Building Code requirements. (Ord. 17-
16, 7-26-2017)
8-14-4: FREESTANDING SOLAR PANELS:
Freestanding solar panels shall be considered an accessory building and shall
be subject to the requirements for such, together with all other applicable
building codes and ordinances. (Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
8-14-5: STRUCTURALLY ATTACHED SOLAR PANELS:
Structurally attached solar panels shall be a permitted accessory use in all
zones, subject to the requirements for such, together with all other applicable
building codes and ordinances. Structurally attached solar panels installed on
a building with a sloped roof shall not project vertically above the peak of
the roof. Structurally attached solar panels installed on a building with a
flat roof shall not project vertically more than five feet (5') above the roof.
(Ord. 17-16, 7-26-2017)
CHAPTER 15
SHORT TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
8-15-1: Title
8-15-2: Definitions
8-15-3: Conditional Use Permit Required
8-15-4: Application Requirements
8-15-5: Conditions For Approval
8-15-6: Parking Regulations
8-15-7: Maintenance Standards
8-15-8: Prevention Of Noise, Trespass; Prohibited Activities
8-15-9: Required Posting
8-15-10: Owner, Property Manager Responsibilities
8-15-11: Renewal Of Conditional Use Permit
8-15-12: Revocation Or Modification Of Permit; Valid Objection
8-15-13: Violations; Penalty
8-15-1: TITLE:
The rules and regulations and process contained within this chapter shall be
known as the SHORT TERM RENTAL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the definitions and meanings set
forth below. If any words or phrases are defined elsewhere in this Code, and
there is a contradiction as to their meaning, the definitions set forth in this
section shall control this chapter.
APPLICATION: The application for a short term rental shall be a conditional use
permit for a short term rental.
COMPLETE APPLICATION: An application that has satisfied all of the submittal
requirements set forth in this chapter and otherwise complies with all of the
criteria required for the issuance of a short term rental conditional use
permit.
FLOOR PLAN: A level by level plan of the rental property with labeling of all
enclosed spaces within the structure and dimensions, including, without
limitation, all sleeping areas.
GUESTROOM: A room which is designed for occupancy by one (1) or more guests for
sleeping purposes, but having no cooking facilities and not including
dormitories.
NIGHTLY/SHORT TERM RENTAL: The rental of a dwelling unit or a portion thereof
for less than thirty (30) days to a single person. Nightly rental does not
include the use of a dwelling for commercial uses.
OWNER: The owner of record, recorded in the Daggett County Recorder's Office,
of the residence for which a short term rental conditional use permit is sought
or has been issued to. The owner may be a person or any form of business entity
recognized by the State of Utah. If the owner is a form of business entity, the
business entity shall maintain current registration with the Utah Department of
Commerce.
PARKING SPACE: An area with a width of not less than nine feet (9') and a
length of not less than eighteen feet (18') located within the designated
garages, or on impermeable surfaces such as asphalt, concrete or gravel.
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT COMPANY: The owner's agent for renting the property, if
any.
PROPERTY OR SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPERTY: All such residences or dwelling units
used for short term rental purposes.
SLEEPING AREA: Any room that has a bed, bunk beds, daybed or other furniture
for sleeping, including, and without limitation, a pull out couch or futon. To
be a valid sleeping area, the sleeping area shall have appropriate exits,
ceiling heights and windows. A sleeping area shall require a minimum of one
hundred (100) square feet of floor space.
TRANSIENT: Occupancy of a dwelling unit or sleeping unit for not more than
thirty (30) days.
USE WITH CRITERIA: The land use approval process contained in the Daggett
County ordinances; provided, however, if there are any conflicts,
contradictions or differences between the process and requirements set out in
the County ordinances and the process and requirements set out in this chapter,
the terms and conditions in this chapter shall control.
VALID OBJECTION: An objection based on:
   A.   The owner's objective failure to file a complete application; or
   B.   The owner's failure to meet any of the required criteria for the
issuance of a short term rental conditional use permit. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-3: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to rent for less than thirty (30) days a
residence without possessing and maintaining a conditional use permit as
required by this chapter. For this chapter, the word permit shall mean the same
as conditional use permit. Only the owner(s), as defined in section
8-15-2 of this chapter, shall be allowed to hold a permit. A residence
providing short term rentals, when allowed as a conditional use, shall be
approved only in accordance with this title, and the conditions for this use as
stated in this chapter.
   A.   Term Of Permit: All permits issued for short term rentals shall be good
for one (1) year from the date of issue and must be renewed annually.
   B.   Additional Permits Not Permitted: The owner of a single- family
dwelling for which a short term rental permit is sought shall not hold a permit
to operate another short term rental unit within the County boundaries.
   C.   Issuance To Owner: Conditional use permits shall only be issued to the
owner(s) of the property.
   D.   Maintenance: Each owner and his agent renting or leasing a short term
residential rental unit shall maintain that unit in a condition fit for human
habitation and in accordance with this chapter and the rules of the Tri-County
Health Department. Each short term residential rental unit shall have
electrical systems, heating, sanitation plumbing, and hot and cold water.
   E.   Safety Inspection; Fees: Each unit shall pass a safety inspection by
the County building inspector and pay the appropriate fees for said inspection.
   F.   Sale Or Transfer Of Property: In the event of a sale or other transfer
of any property containing a permit as a short term rental unit, the purchaser
or transferee of the property shall be required to apply for a new license
within forty five (45) days of the date of purchase or transfer. In the event
that the purchaser or transferee fails to apply for a new license within said
forty five (45) days, the conditional use permit will be forfeited and the
owner must reapply for a short term conditional use permit.
   G.   Register Of Guests Required: Each short term residential rental
property owner shall keep a register of guests. Such registration or list shall
include the names and addresses of all guests and be available for inspection
by the building inspector or law enforcement at any time.
   H.   Homeowners' Associations: Owners must comply with all Homeowners'
Association (HOA) Rules and Regulations. If short term rentals are not allowed,
then said HOA rules shall apply.
   I.   Zones Permitted: Short term rental units are a conditional use in MU-
40, MU-80, MU-160, AG-20, AG-40 and RR-10 Zones. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-4: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Required; Fees: The application for a conditional use
permit for short term rental of residential property must be filled out
completely and all required fees paid before the application will be
considered.
   B.   Conditions For Approval Stated On Application: The conditions for
approval will be questioned on application and must be met in order to be
considered for a conditional use permit.
   C.   Initial Safety Inspection; Fees: An initial safety inspection of the
property by the building inspector shall be a part of this application. Said
safety inspection must be completed and applicable fees for said inspection
must be paid before the application can be considered.
   D.   Proof Of Ownership: Proof of ownership for said unit.
   E.   Unit Insurance: Proof of valid insurance for each unit being licensed
for short term rentals.
   F.   Liability Insurance: Proof of valid liability insurance for the
following: owner, property management company or any other entity.
   G.   Floor, Site Plans: Floor plan and site plan, including the parking area
with each parking space mapped out, drawn to scale with dimensions.
   H.   Zone, Address: Zone designation and street address for each unit.
   I.   Business License: A County business license is required.
   J.   State Tax Number: The application must include a valid State tax number
for remittance of transient lodging taxes.
   K.   Acknowledgment: A signed acknowledgment on the application, that the
owner, property management company and/or owner's agent, if any, have read all
of the County's regulations and ordinances pertaining to the operation of a
short term rental.
   L.   Certification: The owner shall sign the application certifying the
accuracy of the information submitted and agreeing to comply with all
regulations. If there is a property management company or other agent of the
owner managing the short term rental, the agent or authorized officer of the
property management company, or both, shall also sign the application
certifying the accuracy of the information submitted and agreeing to comply
with all regulations. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-5: CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Business License Required; Taxes: A County business license shall be
obtained before occupancy and after approval of the conditional use permit.
Sales and transient room taxes must be collected and remitted to the proper
authority.
   B.   Occupancy: No more than four (4) occupants per room shall be allowed,
and total occupants of the dwelling cannot exceed the number allowed by the
International Building Code.
   C.   Fire Escape Plan: A fire escape plan shall be developed in accordance
with the International Residential Code.
   D.   Passage Of Safety Inspection: Passage of safety inspection by the
County building inspector.
   E.   Notification To Guests: A notification to guests shall be prepared and
shall contain the residence rules and the fact that the residence is being
rented under a conditional use permit that may be revoked if guest actions lead
to complaints from neighbors of the residence.
   F.   Notification To Real Property Owners: Upon receipt of a completed short
term residential conditional use permit application, the Planning Commission
shall notify all persons with real property within three hundred feet (300') of
the proposed short term residential rental unit location.
   G.   Denial With Valid Objections: The application may be denied by the
Planning Commission with valid objections.
   H.   Public Hearing: No public hearing need be held; however, a hearing may
be held when the Planning Commission shall deem a hearing to be necessary and
in the public interest.
      1.   The Planning Commission may hold the hearing.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall have a record of the hearing, together
with a report of findings and recommendations relative thereto, for its
consideration of the proposed conditional uses.
      3.   Such hearing, if deemed necessary, shall be held not more than sixty
(60) days from the date of the application. The particular time and place shall
be established by the Planning Commission.
      4.   The Planning Commission shall publish a notice of hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the County not less than ten (10) days
prior to date of said hearing. Failure of property owners to receive notice of
said hearing shall in no way affect the validity of action taken. (Ord. 17-18,
8-8-2017)
8-15-6: PARKING REGULATIONS:
The owner of any property permitted as a short term rental unit shall provide
off street parking for the guests in accordance with the following:
   A.   Generally: Required parking areas and access to parking areas shall be
maintained and available for use at all times. All vehicles belonging to
overnight occupants shall be parked on the property and shall not be parked on
any adjacent property, street or public rights-of-way. Vehicles, including all
motorized vehicles and such vehicles' trailers, RVs, boats, motorhomes, etc.,
shall be parked in a designated parking area. Each trailer parked at a licensed
property shall be considered a vehicle.
   B.   Number Required:
      1.   Parking shall be provided, at a minimum, of one (1) vehicle per
bedroom. Tandem spaces on a driveway may be used.
      2.   The number of vehicles allowed by the occupants of a short term
rental home shall be restricted to the number of parking spaces provided by the
owner.
   C.   Spaces Available; Obstructions: All parking spaces shown on site plan
shall be available for parking and shall not be blocked or otherwise
unavailable due to storage of materials or for any other reasons. Snow shall be
removed as outlined in State and local codes. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-7: MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
Any property that contains a dwelling which is permitted as a short term rental
shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Requirements Generally: Structures shall be properly maintained,
painted and kept in good repair, and grounds and landscaped areas shall be
properly maintained and grass watered in order that the use in no way detracts
from the general appearance of the neighborhood;
   B.   Appearance Of Dwelling: The use of a dwelling as a short term rental
does not in any way change the appearance of the dwelling or property for
residential purposes;
   C.   Residential Code Applicability: Each sleeping room must meet the
current International Residential Code for egress and be equipped with smoke
and CO detectors; and
   D.   Trash: Trash collection which ensures that trash containers are not
left at the curb for any period in excess of twenty four (24) hours and the
property must be kept free of all accumulated garbage, refuse and weeds. All
large boxes must be collapsed and trash bagged and placed in the appropriate
receptacles. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-8: PREVENTION OF NOISE, TRESPASS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
The owner of any dwelling permitted as a short term rental property shall be
responsible to ensure that guests or occupants of the short term rental do not:
   A.   Noise: Create noises that by reason of time, nature or intensity of
duration are out of character with noises customarily heard in the surrounding
residential neighborhood.
   B.   Privacy: Interfere with the privacy of surrounding residents or
trespass onto surrounding residential properties.
   C.   Pets, Animals: Allow pets or animals to create noise, roam the streets,
trespass on neighboring properties or create a mess that is not cleaned up by
the owner or custodian of the pet or animal.
   D.   Disorderly, Illegal Conduct: Engage in any disorderly or illegal
conduct, including illegal consumption of drugs and alcohol.
   E.   Exceed Occupancy: Occupancy beyond the specified number allowed in the
permit.
   F.   Outdoor Sleeping: Outdoor sleeping of individuals, which exceeds the
occupancy permitted.
   G.   Sales Of Alcohol: No alcoholic beverages shall be sold on the premises.
   H.   Cooking In Guestrooms: No cooking facilities shall be allowed in
guestrooms.
   I.   Signs: All signs shall be in accordance with County ordinances. (Ord.
17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-9: REQUIRED POSTING:
The following information must be posted in a clear, concise and unambiguous
manner and in a conspicuous location inside any dwelling permitted as a short
term rental unit:
   A.   Business License: A copy of the rental unit business license;
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: A copy of the conditional use permit;
   C.   Owner, Property Manager Information: The name, address, and phone
number of the owner or property manager;
   D.   Fire Extinguishers Location: The location of all fire extinguishers;
   E.   Fire Escape Plan: A fire escape plan shall be developed and graphically
displayed in each guestroom;
   F.   List Of Rules: A list of all rules applicable for short term rental
property;
   G.   Maximum Occupancy: The maximum occupancy of the short term rental
property and the maximum number of vehicles allowed;
   H.   Nameplate Sign: One (1) nameplate sign not to exceed twelve inches by
eighteen inches (12" x 18") made of durable weather resistant material
containing the name and telephone number of the owner or the owner's designated
agent, as defined herein, who will be responsible for receiving and resolving
complaints regarding activities on the property and the conduct of its
occupants and guests, who can be contacted twenty four (24) hours a day, shall
be permanently and conspicuously attached to the building near the front
entrance. Such nameplate shall not contain any advertising. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-
2017)
8-15-10: OWNER, PROPERTY MANAGER RESPONSIBILITIES:
The following rules and regulations shall apply to any dwelling for which a
short term rental property conditional use permit has been issued:
   A.   Requested Information To Personnel; Complaints: The owner or property
manager shall provide information on current occupants to police, emergency,
City or County personnel as requested. The owner or other person designated as
the property manager shall respond to complaints and concerns within one (1)
hour of any phone call or other notification. Failure of the owner or property
manager to respond in a timely manner may result in a violation and possible
fines to the conditional use permit holder and property owner.
   B.   Effect Of Requirements: The requirements of this section shall be in
effect throughout the time a short term rental property conditional use permit
is in effect on the property, regardless of whether the property is occupied by
the owner, nonpaying guest of the owner or paying guests of the owner. The
County finds that, given the practical difficulty of determining whether or not
the occupants are paying guests, enforcement of the requirements contained in
this section shall be based on whether the property is permitted as a short
term rental unit.
   C.   Inspections: An inspection of a short term rental property for
compliance with these regulations will be performed at the time of conditional
use permit review. Additional inspections may be performed with a twenty four
(24) hour notice to the permit holder/property manager if deemed necessary by
the County.
   D.   Collection Of Taxes: The owner of any dwelling licensed as a short term
rental property shall be required to collect and remit on a timely basis
transient lodging taxes. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-11: RENEWAL OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Business License: A copy of the current County business license shall
be included with the conditional use permit renewal application.
   B.   Taxes: Sales taxes and transient room taxes must have been collected
and remitted in a timely manner to the proper authorities.
   C.   Complaints: Documented complaints must be minimal and must have been
successfully addressed by the owner in a timely manner. Original complaints
should be reported and/or documented to the owner at the time of violation
using the County form available from the Planning Commission. A copy must be
submitted to the Planning Commission within thirty (30) days by the aggrieved
party. In the case of a complaint involving immediate health or safety
concerns, 911 should be called before contacting the owner. Recurring and/or
unresolved complaints could instigate an investigation and/or revocation of the
conditional use permit.
   D.   List Maintained: Owner must maintain a list of rental dates, renters
and their addresses.
   E.   Annual Application; Time For Submittal: Applications for renewal are
due annually and must be submitted two (2) months prior to expiration. No
property shall be rented on a short term basis without a current conditional
use permit.
   F.   Compliance; Inspection: The short term residential rental unit shall
meet all conditions of this chapter and other applicable ordinances and laws.
There shall be an initial inspection of the premises by the County building
inspector and one (1) follow up if necessary.
   G.   Exception: The Planning Commission may deem it unnecessary for the
owner of the short term rental property to renew the conditional use permit if
all ordinances, rules and regulations have been complied with and there have
been no complaints filed against said property for a period of two (2)
consecutive years. All other regulations must be complied with on an annual
basis. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
8-15-12: REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF PERMIT; VALID OBJECTION:
   A.   Public Meeting: If there is cause to believe that grounds exist for
revocation or modification of an approved conditional use permit for a short
term rental, the Planning Commission shall hold a public meeting and question
of modification or revocation of a conditional use permit granted under the
terms and the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Findings, Conditions: A conditional use permit may be modified or
revoked if the Planning Commission finds that one (1) or more of the following
conditions exist:
      1.   The conditional use permit was obtained in a fraudulent manner.
      2.   The use which the conditional use permit was granted has now ceased
for at least twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.
      3.   One (1) or more of the conditions of the conditional use permit have
not been met.
      4.   Upon discovery of an immediate health hazard to renters, the Code
Enforcement Officer can suspend the short term rental conditional use permit
until the hazard has remedied and the property has been inspected.
   C.   Nuisance: Additionally, the Planning Commission, without the consent of
the owner, may modify the conditions under which a conditional use permit was
originally approved, if the Planning Commission finds that the use or related
development constitutes or is creating a demonstrated nuisance. (Ord. 17-18, 8-
8-2017)
8-15-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any owner of any dwelling in a residential, rural or
agriculture zone within the County who allows or permits occupation of said
dwelling as a short term rental, as defined herein, without having first
obtained a business license and a conditional use permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every violator shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each day such violation is permitted to exist after official notice has
been given.
   B.   Separate Offense: Violation of any provision of this chapter regulating
short term rental unit shall constitute a separate offense for each day said
violation occurs or continues.
   C.   Guest Violators: Any person who occupies a short term rental property
as a guest and who violates any local ordinance or State law shall be subject
to arrest, issuance of a citation or other criminal process in accordance with
all State, Federal or local statutes, rules or ordinances.
   D.   Multiple Violations; Revocation: In the event of three (3) or more
violations of this chapter are committed by any owner or guest, or any
combination of the two (2), within any twelve (12) month period, the Planning
Commission may, depending on the nature or extent of the violation, proceed
with revocation of the conditional use permit for any short term rental unit in
accordance with the provisions of the conditional use permit legislation and
this chapter.
   E.   Imposition: The procedures for imposition of penalties for violations
shall be as per section
8-3-8, "Violations And Penalty", of this title. (Ord. 17-18, 8-8-2017)
