COUNTY CODE
of
DUCHESNE COUNTY, UTAH
2010
Code current through:
Ord. 25-424, passed 7-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This county code of Duchesne County, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including Ordinance 25-424, passed July 7, 2025. Ordinances of the County
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the County
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
DUCHESNE COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1:   Title
1-1-2:   Acceptance
1-1-3:   Amendments
1-1-4:   Alterations
1-1-5:   References
1-1-6:   Construction
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of county commissioners, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of
Duchesne County. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
DUCHESNE COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of
county commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1998 Code §1.01.020; amd. 2010
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2010 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the county code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the county
code. (2010 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
board of county commissioners. The county clerk/auditor shall see that the
replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in
the office of the county clerk/auditor. Any person having custody of a copy of
the county code shall make every effort to maintain said code current as to the
most recent ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion
of new or replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such
person through the office of the county clerk/auditor. Said code books, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the office of the
county clerk/auditor when directed so to do by order of the board of county
commissioners. (2010 Code)
1-1-5: REFERENCES:
   A.   Amendments, Corrections: Whenever a reference is made to this code as
the Duchesne County code, or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the
county codified herein, the reference shall apply to all amendments,
corrections, and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made. (1998 Code
§1.01.030)
   B.   Specific Ordinances: The provisions of this code shall not in any
manner affect matters of record which refer to or are otherwise connected with
ordinances which are therein specifically designated by number, or otherwise
are included within the code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to
the corresponding provisions contained within this code. (1998 Code §1.01.050)
1-1-6: CONSTRUCTION:
The provisions of the ordinances of the county, and all proceedings under them,
are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
(1998 Code § 1.04.070)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the county passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2010 Code)
   C.   Repeal Does Not Revive: The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the
repealing clause of an ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been
repealed thereby. (1998 Code § 1.04.080)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as the county code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2010 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2010 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The board of county commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the board of county commissioners may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time:
      1.   Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done in a
certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which
such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted in computing the
time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall be counted. (2010
Code)
      2.   Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is
required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in which case, it
shall also be excluded. (1998 Code § 1.04.060)
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other county officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall, Must: The word "may" is permissive; the words "shall" and
"must" are mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees: Whenever any officer or employee is referred by
title, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of
Duchesne County".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
county has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2010
Code)
   M.   Acts By Agents: When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being
such that it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts performed by an
authorized agent. (1998 Code § 1.04.040)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of the county of Duchesne. "All its
members" or "all board members" means the total number of board members holding
office.
CODE: The county code of Duchesne County.
COUNTY: Duchesne County, state of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the county for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to county regulation,
authorization or limitation.
LAW: Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the state
of Utah, the ordinances of the county and, when appropriate, any and all rules
and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the county, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the county.
OATH: Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING AND FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Means and includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Means and includes all streets, highways, avenues, lands, alleys,
courts, places, squares, curbs, or other public ways in the county which have
been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public
property so designated in any law of this state.
TENANT, OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer", as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1998 Code § 1.04.010; amd. 2010 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1998
Code § 1.01.040; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Specified: Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to
comply with any of the mandatory requirements of the ordinances of the county
shall be guilty of an infraction, unless the violation is made a misdemeanor by
ordinance.
      2.   Authority: The county legislative body may enforce obedience to
ordinances by punishment, not to exceed the maximum fine for a class B
misdemeanor under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301, imprisonment, or by
both fine and imprisonment.
      3.   Traffic; Parking:
         a.   Except as specifically authorized by statute, the county
legislative body may not impose a civil penalty for the violation of a county
traffic ordinance.
         b.   Subsection A3a of this section does not apply to an ordinance
regulating the parking of vehicles on a highway.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the county, or for an
offense defined outside of this code over which this county has jurisdiction,
for which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount
fixed by the court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (1998 Code § 1.12.010; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17-53-223.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this county shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date hereof which involve an
offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance with this
chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this county when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this county, or which is expressly designated an infraction and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this county which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING:
Whenever in the ordinances of the county any act or omission is made unlawful,
it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or
concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1998 Code § 1.04.050)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Regular Meetings Established
1-5-2: Past Actions Ratified
1-5-1: REGULAR MEETINGS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The Board of County Commissioners shall hold regular meetings of the
Board of Commissioners at the County seat of Duchesne City, Utah. The regularly
scheduled meetings of the Board of County Commissioners shall be held on the
day of the week established each year by the Board of County Commissioners by
ordinance.
   B.   In the absence of resolution, the regular meeting shall continue to be
held on the day established by the last ordinance subsequent to this chapter;
or, in the absence of any subsequent ordinance, as established by this chapter.
   C.   Regular meetings shall be held on the same day each week, except that
the Board of County Commissioners, by ordinance, can change the day of the week
for the regularly scheduled meeting to some other day of the week to
accommodate the schedules of the County Commissioners and holidays; provided,
that said change is duly voted at a prior regularly scheduled meeting and that
appropriate notice is given as required by law. (1998 Code § 2.04.010; amd.
2010 Code)
1-5-2: PAST ACTIONS RATIFIED:
All actions taken by the Board of County Commissioners at past meetings not
held pursuant to the schedule established by ordinance, are ratified and
confirmed. (1998 Code § 2.04.020)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: General Fidelity Bond Or Theft Or Crime Insurance Required, Amounts,
Faithful Performance Blanket Position Bond Allowed, And Premiums Paid
1-6-2: Offices Of County Clerk And County Auditor Combined
1-6-1: GENERAL FIDELITY BOND OR THEFT OR CRIME INSURANCE REQUIRED, AMOUNTS,
FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE BLANKET POSITION BOND ALLOWED, AND PREMIUMS PAID:
   A.   No fidelity bonds are required under this section, unless an individual
bond is required under a contract entered into by the County or by State law.
All other officers shall be covered by theft or crime insurance secured by the
County.
   B.   Before entering upon the discharge of their respective offices, the
following officers shall be covered by theft or crime insurance with a per
occurrence limit of not less than the amounts listed or required by State law,
as follows:
Office Penalty/Coverage
Office                                              Penalty/Coverage
Assessor                                            $5,000.00
Attorney                                            5,000.00
Clerk/Auditor                                       5,000.00
Commissioners                                       5,000.00
Constable                                           5,000.00
Deputies/assistants (if determined necessary by the 2,500.00
Legislative Body)
Justice Court Judge                                 5,000.00
Recorder                                            5,000.00
Office                                              Penalty/Coverage
Sheriff                                             5,000.00
Surveyor (engineer)                                 5,000.00
Treasurer (as set by the State Money Management Council)    
 
   C.   If any of the offices listed are combined in accordance with section
17-16-3 of the Utah Code, the combined office shall not require multiple
policies of insurance and the coverage limit for theft or crime insurance for
the combined office shall not be less than the highest requirement of the
offices so combined.
   D.   If any of the offices listed are held by an appointed officer under
contract with the County, the limit of coverage for theft or crime insurance
required shall be as agreed to under such contract.
   E.   Theft or crime insurance covering County officials under this section
shall be provided by an admitted or surplus lines insurance carrier or an
interlocal cooperative agency acting as a public agency insurance mutual, or
Joint Reserve Fund. Any bonds required under contract shall be approved by the
County Legislative Body, recorded by the County Recorder, and filed and kept in
the Office of the County Clerk. Any theft or crime insurance secured for the
purpose of complying with this section shall be approved by the County
Legislative Body.
   F.   County officials and personnel of this County, except any officials who
may be required by State Statutes to give an individual bond or be covered by
theft or crime insurance to qualify for office, may be covered by blanket theft
or crime insurance coverage rather than separate individual policies or
coverage. Said theft or crime insurance shall provide a minimum coverage limit
of the maximum coverage required by State Statute or County ordinance of any
person covered by such blanket theft or crime insurance.
   G.   As required by section 17-16-11 of the Utah Code, the premium of any
bond or theft or crime insurance referred to herein, shall be paid from County
funds. (Ord. 18-367, 12-17-2018)
1-6-2: OFFICES OF COUNTY CLERK AND COUNTY AUDITOR COMBINED:
   A.   County Clerk/Auditor: The Offices of County Clerk and County Auditor
shall be combined pursuant to this section, to be the Office of County Clerk/
Auditor.
   B.   Duties: The duties of the County Clerk/Auditor shall be the same duties
as set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 19, duties of the County
Auditor, and Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 20, duties of the County
Clerk.
   C.   Authority: Said consolidation of the offices is made pursuant to Utah
Code Annotated section 17-16-3, as amended.
   D.   Salary: The salary of the combined Office of County Clerk/Auditor shall
be that set forth by the County Legislative Body in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 17-16-20, as amended. (1998 Code § 2.08.060)
ARTICLE A. ACCIDENT REVIEW BOARD
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Established
1-6A-2: Report Of Accident
1-6A-3: Evaluation Of Accident By Board
1-6A-4: Determination Of Cause By Board
1-6A-5: Written Report Of Findings
1-6A-6: Department Head Responsibility For Corrective Measures
1-6A-7: Disciplinary Action
1-6A-8: Appeals
1-6A-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an accident review board for the county. The
accident review board shall consist of five (5) members, the county attorney or
his designee, the county sheriff or his designee, the risk management manager,
the safety officer and the personnel director. The accident review board shall
review each vehicular accident involving county employees, vehicles and/or
properties, with the employee and the respective department head of the
employee involved in the accident. The accident review board shall forward its
conclusions and recommendations to the board of commissioners and to the
department head of the employee involved in said accident. (1998 Code §
2.12.010)
1-6A-2: REPORT OF ACCIDENT:
Each accident involving a county vehicle shall be reported to the local police,
sheriff or highway patrol in accordance with Utah Code Annotated. Each and
every accident shall be reported immediately to the personnel director. The
initial written report shall be turned in within forty eight (48) hours of the
accident to the risk management manager so a timely report to the county
insurance company may be made. If a death occurs due to an accident, the risk
management manager shall be notified immediately so that the county insurance
company may be notified. The initial written report need not be the final
investigative report. The supervisor of the employee involved in the accident
shall also investigate the accident. Each employee involved in an accident with
a county vehicle shall submit a signed, detailed report to his or her
supervisor on forms to be supplied by the county. The supervisor shall retain a
copy of the report for the department files and shall forward the original
report to the personnel director and the risk management manager. (1998 Code §
2.12.020)
1-6A-3: EVALUATION OF ACCIDENT BY BOARD:
The accident review board shall evaluate the accident and shall determine as
far as possible the cause of the accident and whether the accident was
preventable. A "preventable accident" is herein defined as a accident in which
the driver failed to exercise every reasonable precaution to prevent the
accident. The accident review board shall consider any or all of the following
information:
   A.   Written evidence presented by the driver concerned, the supervisor and
the police report of the accident investigation;
   B.   Maintenance records of the vehicle or other information available
concerning the vehicle both before and after the accident, including motor pool
estimates of the cost of repair;
   C.   Laboratory tests on vehicle parts;
   D.   The driver's past driving record;
   E.   Diagrams, photographs and other evidence;
   F.   Testimony of other drivers and witnesses present. (1998 Code §
2.12.030)
1-6A-4: DETERMINATION OF CAUSE BY BOARD:
The accident review board shall determine, as far as possible, the cause of the
accident and whether the accident was preventable. A "preventable accident" is
herein defined as an accident in which the driver failed to exercise every
reasonable precaution to prevent the accident. (1998 Code § 2.12.040)
1-6A-5: WRITTEN REPORT OF FINDINGS:
The accident review board shall prepare a written report of their findings and
recommendations to the respective or appropriate department head. The report
shall be kept by the county accident review board with copies of the findings
being distributed to:
   A.   The employee involved in the accident;
   B.   The respective department head of the employee involved;
   C.   The county commission;
   D.   The personnel director, to be placed in the employee's personnel file;
and
   E.   The risk management manager, to be placed in the accident file. (1998
Code § 2.12.050)
1-6A-6: DEPARTMENT HEAD RESPONSIBILITY FOR CORRECTIVE MEASURES:
In the event that the accident review board findings and recommendations
include corrective measures to be taken by the department head, the department
head shall implement those corrective measures as soon as practical. (1998 Code
§ 2.12.060)
1-6A-7: DISCIPLINARY ACTION:
   A.   If the accident involved the violation of established policies
associated with preventing injuries and incurring liability, the accident
review board shall recommend corrective disciplinary action which shall be
taken as soon as practical by the appropriate official. Appropriate
disciplinary action may include loss of county driving privileges, county
required approved defensive driving courses, reassignment or termination of
employment.
   B.   Recommended disciplinary action may be as follows:
      1.   A written warning, if the accident was found to be preventable and
the repair/replacement or medical expenses incurred is less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00).
      2.   A written warning, completion of a defensive driving course, within
sixty (60) days of the accident review board decision, and possible suspension
without pay for up to ten (10) days, if the accident was found to be
preventable, and the repair/replacement or medical expenses incurred exceeds
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      3.   Loss of county driving privileges and reassignment to a nondriving
position at the current rate of pay for that position, if an employee has had
two (2) preventable accidents within a six (6) month period. If the employee is
reinstated to the former position, such reinstatement shall be back to the
employee's salary at time of demotion.
      4.   Termination, if an employee has had three (3) preventable accidents
within a twelve (12) month period, if there is a finding that the accident was
a result of illegal or intentional acts or gross irresponsibility. (1998 Code §
2.12.070)
1-6A-8: APPEALS:
In the event the employee disagrees with the findings of the accident review
board or with the action taken by his or her department head, the employee may
file an appeal to the county commission. In order for the appeal to be
considered, the employee must follow the grievance procedure as outlined in the
policy and procedures manual section 15. (1998 Code § 2.12.080)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC RECORDS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Government Records Access And Management Act Adopted By Reference
1-7-2: Compliance With GRAMA
1-7-3: Official Record Copy
1-7-4: Electronic Record Management And Transactions
1-7-5: Authority
1-7-6: Implementation
1-7-7: Format Of Records; Fee
1-7-8: Rules And Policies Submitted
1-7-1: GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah government records access and management act, Utah Code
Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the
county. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered class B violations
of this section and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (2010 Code)
1-7-2: COMPLIANCE WITH GRAMA:
Duchesne County shall manage and maintain the records of the county and
establish and implement information practices such as classification,
designation, access, denials, segregation, appeals, management, retention and
amendment of records in a manner consistent with the legislative intent of the
government records and management act (GRAMA) as set forth in chapter 2, title
63G et seq., as amended and as codified herein by the county in section
1-7-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-303, 8-13-2012)
1-7-3: OFFICIAL RECORD COPY:
Duchesne County shall adopt as its official record copy of a designated county
record an electronic format of a record either originally created
electronically or created through the process of scanning or otherwise
digitally imaging records.
   A.   Definitions:
    ELECTRONIC: Relating to technology having electrical, digital, magnetic,
wireless, optical, electromagnetic, or similar capabilities.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD: A record consisting of data and information which is
input, created, generated, sent, communicated, received, or stored by
electronic means.
   GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY: An executive, legislative, or judicial agency,
department, board, commission, authority, institution, or instrumentality of
the federal government or of a state or of a county, municipality, or other
political subdivision of a state.
   IMAGING: Electronic or "digital" imaging; the ability to capture, store,
retrieve, display, process, distribute, and manage data and information as a
digitized representation of the original.
   INFORMATION: Data, text, images, sounds, codes, computer programs, software,
databases, or the like.
   OFFICIAL RECORD COPY: Such original copy of a record maintained by the
creating agency, either as a permanent record retained by the agency, or as a
record copy retained by the agency until the administrative need ends or the
record retention schedule has been met; then transferred to Utah state archives
with authority to weed.
   RECORD: Information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored
in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
   RECORD RETENTION SCHEDULE: Such retention schedule established and based
upon a record's administrative, fiscal, legal or historical value, including
agency specific schedules specifying the approved disposition of a record
unique in purpose and function to its creating agency. (Ord. 12-303, 8-13-2012)
1-7-4: ELECTRONIC RECORD MANAGEMENT AND TRANSACTIONS:
Duchesne County shall implement the requirement of electronic file format and/
or digital imaging of Duchesne County records to facilitate electronic record
management and transactions consistent with other applicable law; to be
consistent with reasonable practices concerning electronic management and
transactions and with the continued expansion of those practices; and to
effectuate its general purpose to make uniform the law with respect to the
subject of this chapter. (Ord. 12-303, 8-13-2012)
1-7-5: AUTHORITY:
Nothing herein shall be interpreted to interfere or otherwise impede the
authority of a county office, officer, elected official, department head,
employee, agency representatives or other authority in the full discharge and
performance of the duties of the office or department under such authority
provided by law, subject to the compliance with this chapter, GRAMA, and all
other applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations pertaining to
records management and access. (Ord. 12-303, 8-13-2012)
1-7-6: IMPLEMENTATION:
All county offices, officers, employees, agencies shall take all steps
necessary to timely implement and maintain an electronic file format creation
and/or digital imaging system in accordance with record retention schedules and
indexing requirements established according to the standards developed by the
division of archives under Utah Code Annotated 63A-12-101(2)(e); and shall
ensure approval of those schedules from the state records committee as required
by Utah Code Annotated 63G-2-502(1)(b); timely implementation and maintenance
of electronic file format creation and/or digital imaging systems shall be
defined herein as an implementation date not later than January 1, 2013. (Ord.
12-303, 8-13-2012)
1-7-7: FORMAT OF RECORDS; FEE:
All records, data, and information which is properly classified, in accordance
with GRAMA and this chapter, as a public record shall be stored, maintained and
made available in an electronic file format and/or digital imaging either
solely or in addition to the original nondigital format of such record, subject
to each county office, officer, elected official, or department head's
authority and implementation as custodian over records in their respective
offices or departments in compliance with this chapter, GRAMA and other
applicable state, federal or local law. If the law requires that a record be
retained, stored, maintained or made available, the requirement is satisfied by
retaining an electronic file format and/or digital imaging of such record that
accurately reflects the information set forth in the record after it was first
generated in its final form as an electronic file format and/or digital imaging
record or otherwise; and the same remains accessible for later reference.
Nothing herein shall limit or otherwise impede each county office, officer,
elected official or department head from imposing and collecting a reasonable
and lawful fee for the cost of duplicating, compiling or otherwise providing an
electronic file format and/or digital imaging of a requested record or of a
record required by law to be made available. (Ord. 12-303, 8-13-2012)
1-7-8: RULES AND POLICIES SUBMITTED:
Duchesne County shall submit copies of all rules and policies developed,
adopted and promulgated under this chapter to the Utah state division of
archives and records service within thirty (30) days of effective date of such
rules and policies to ensure the Utah state archive's continued assistance to
Duchesne County in its records management, retention, storage and formatting
responsibilities and compliance with the county's responsibility under Utah
Code Annotated 63A-12-103 to work with the state archives in the "care,
maintenance, scheduling, disposal, classification, designation, access, and
preservation of records". (Ord. 12-303, 8-13-2012)
CHAPTER 8
LIBRARY SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-8-1: Established
1-8-2: Board Of Directors
1-8-3: Library Director
1-8-4: Meetings
1-8-5: Committees
1-8-6: Library Funds; Donations
1-8-1: ESTABLISHED:
The county has established and maintains a public library and ancillary sites
for public library purposes. For more efficient management and in keeping with
state legislative mandates as set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 9, chapter
7, the county adopts and codifies the following provisions. (Ord. 07-255, 3-12-
2007; amd. Ord. 21-384, 3-22-2021)
1-8-2: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Established:
      1.   The Duchesne County Library Board shall be constituted and appointed
in accordance with Utah Code Heritage, Arts, Libraries, and Cultural
Development, Library Development Chapter, Utah Code Annotated sections 9-7-502
and 9-7-503.
      2.   The county commissioner who is appointed as a member of the Board is
exempt from the two (2) consecutive term limit and may serve as long as they
are in office and are appointed annually by the County Commission.
      3.   The Commission is encouraged to consider geographical area as a
factor when making Board appointments.
      4.   A trustee that fills a vacancy is eligible to fill two (2) more full
terms upon completion of a two (2) year or shorter partial term with Commission
approval. A term longer than two (2) years is considered a full term.
      5.   Any appointed board member may resign from such position by
providing written notification of such resignation to the chairperson of the
Board. The chairperson shall thereupon notify the County Commission of such
resignation.
   B.   Officers:
      1.   Officers of the Board shall be as follows: a chairperson, vice-
chairperson, and secretary. Officers shall be elected by the Board at its July
meeting. Their term of office shall be for one year, commencing with their
election. The Board shall establish bylaws that specify board officers' duties.
The Board shall also establish a schedule for a systematic review of the board
bylaws and policies.
   C.   Authority And Responsibility Of Board: The Board is hereby granted
authority and responsibility to:
      1.   Fulfill duties and responsibilities of the Board outlined in Utah
Code Annotated sections 9-7-504, 9-7-505, 9-7-506, 9-7-507 and 9-7-510.
      2.   Establish policies for the operation, maintenance, and care of the
library.
      3.   Make recommendations on the purchasing, leasing, exchanging, and/or
selling of property or buildings.
      4.   Establish policies for acquiring, maintaining, and accessing library
collections, information resources, and electronic resources.
      5.   Establish policies to exclude from the use of the library any person
who willfully violates library policies, federal laws, state laws, or county
ordinances. The Board may extend privileges and use of the library system to
persons residing outside of Duchesne County upon the terms and conditions that
may be outlined by the Board.
      6.   Develop with the library director, and approve the library system's
strategic plan.
      7.   Establish and revise library policies in cooperation with the
library director, subject to consistency with state and federal law and county
ordinance and policies. These policies shall be reviewed by the county
attorney's office, as requested by the County Commission.
      8.   Work cooperatively with the County Commission and others in the
community to provide, improve, and advocate quality library services to the
residents of the county and western Uintah County.
      9.   Encourage citizen involvement in the development of long-range plans
for library service and facilities.
      10.   Hear and resolve relevant library issues brought before the Board.
      11.   Annually evaluate the library director based on progress towards
the library system's strategic plan and of the library system overall.
      12.   Attend orientations, conferences, workshops, and other training to
remain educated on library trends, issues, and services.
      13.   Recommend to the County Commission the removal of a board member
for misconduct or neglect of duty. (Ord. 07-255, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 21-384,
3-22-2021)
1-8-3: LIBRARY DIRECTOR:
The library director shall:
   A.   Serve as the executive officer for the Board.
   B.   Be responsible for the administration of the county library system
under the policies and strategic plan adopted by the Board and applicable
policies of the county.
   C.   Recommend such policies and procedures to the Board that will improve
service to library patrons and promotes the efficiency of the library without
sacrificing the quality of service to library patrons.
   D.   Be accountable to the County Commission on complying with library
policy, applicable county policy, county ordinance, and state and federal laws.
   E.   Be responsible for the protection, maintenance, and operation of county
library property and equipment.
   F.   Regularly submit reports to the Board on the progress, activities, and
finances of the library.
   G.   Ensure the appropriate collection, receipting, and reporting of nontax
library fees/fines, income collection, and the appropriate expenditure and
reporting of budgeted resources of all county library funds.
   H.   Regularly train, communicate with, and correct branch management and
other library staff.
   I.   Pursue grants and other funding opportunities for the library system.
   J.   Demonstrate vision and initiative for improved library service and
environment, and build partnerships with other community organizations.
   K.   Perform other duties as established in the director's official job
description. (Ord. 07-255, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 21-384, 3-22-2021)
1-8-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Required Meetings: The Board shall have no less than four (4) regular
meetings during a calendar year with a quorum present and shall have at least
one meeting held in the last quarter of each year.
   B.   Quorum: A quorum shall be that number of directors that represents a
simple majority of the total number of board members appointed at that time.
   C.   Open And Public Meetings; Special Meetings: Meetings shall comply with
all requirements of state law, including, but not limited to, the Utah Open and
Public Meetings Act. Special meetings may be called at any time by the
chairperson, providing notice thereof is given to the public and all directors
at least twenty four (24) hours in advance. Emergency meetings may be held in
the case of a bona fide emergency by following the same procedure even if
notice is given less than twenty four (24) hours in advance. A majority of
Trustees must approve the meeting.
   D.   Alternate Commission Member: If the county commission member is unable
to attend any board meeting, he/she may designate an alternate commissioner to
act in his/her place. The alternate's presence shall count as a board member
for the purpose of constituting a quorum for voting.
   E.   Records Maintained: Records of all board meetings shall be kept,
managed, classified, and disclosed as required by county ordinance and state
law, including, but not limited to, the government records access and
management act. (Ord. 07-255, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 21-384, 3-22-2021)
1-8-5: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Ad Hoc Committees: The chairperson may appoint ad hoc committees for
the study and/or investigation of library issues or other library matters. The
ad hoc committees shall be in existence until the completion of the work for
which they were established.
   B.   Other Necessary Committees: The Board may establish any committee it
deems necessary for the operation of the library system within the county.
(Ord. 07-255, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 21-384, 3-22-2021)
1-8-6: LIBRARY FUNDS; DONATIONS:
   A.   Custody Of Funds: The County Treasurer shall have legal custody of all
library funds in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 9-7-504(3). (Ord.
07-255, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 21-384, 3-22-2021)
CHAPTER 9
PROCUREMENT CODE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Statutory Authority
1-9-2: Purpose of Provisions
1-9-3: Definitions
1-9-4: Requisition, Purchasing Policy And Authority
1-9-5: Invitation For Bids Procedure
1-9-6: Requests For Proposals
1-9-7: Change Orders
1-9-8: Interlocal Cooperation
1-9-9: Exceptions To The Standard Procurement Procedures
1-9-10: Emergency Procurement
1-9-11: Collusion Among Bidders, Advance Disclosures
1-9-12: Bonds Of Bidders
1-9-13: Attorney Review Of Invitation For Bids, Request For Proposals, Or
Contract Documents
1-9-14: Retention And Access Of Procurement Documents
1-9-15: Assignment Of Contracts
1-9-16: Protests
1-9-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The statutory authority for enacting this chapter is Utah Code Annotated
sections 17-36-20, 17-50-302, 17-53-223, 17-53-307, and 63G-6a-106 as amended.
Accordingly, all procurement of goods or services by Duchesne County shall be
solely governed by this code and shall not be governed by Utah Code Annotated
Section 63G-6a-101, et al., as amended. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-2: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the procuring of supplies,
equipment or services by departments and agencies of Duchesne County in a
manner that promotes the best interests of the public and establishes the
duties, obligations, and procurement procedures of the department head or
supervised department head, as defined herein. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
CHANGE      An agreed-upon written modification to any material term of the contract, such
ORDER:      as specifications, period of performance, price, and quantities.
COMPETITIVE A process of price-checking two or more vendors to determine the best possible
PRICING:    price for the goods or services being purchased.
DEPARTMENT  An elected official who is the head of any County Department(s) (or his/her
HEAD:       authorized agent).
INVITATION  A process of soliciting sealed written bids for goods and/or services.
FOR BIDS:
            A person, partnership, corporation, or association, or other business entity
            that at the time of the submission of the bid or proposal has been transacting
LOCAL       business in Duchesne County or thirty-five (35) miles outside the boundaries
VENDOR:     of Duchesne County and has its principal place of business in Duchesne County
            or thirty-five (35) miles outside of the boundaries of Duchesne County. For
            purposes of this provision, the principal place of business shall be where the
            chief executive offices are located.
PERSON:     An individual or a partnership, corporation, association, or other business
            entity.
REQUEST FOR A process of soliciting proposals for goods and/or services to accomplish some
PROPOSAL:   stated purpose or plan set forth by Duchesne County.
RESPONSIBLE A person or business entity who has the capability in all respects to fully
BIDDER:     perform the contract requirements and who has the integrity and reliability
            which will assure good faith performance.
RESPONSIVE  A person or business entity that has submitted a bid which conforms in all
BIDDER:     material respects to the invitation to bid.
            Any unelected department head, appointed person, or other public body, as
            defined in Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-103(9), that reports to and is Supervised by
SUPERVISED  the County Commission, such as the Planning and Zoning department head, IT
DEPARTMENT  department head, Buildings and Grounds department head, Building Official
HEAD:       department head, Human Resources, Fire & Emergency Management department head,
            Fair Board Chair, Library Board Chair, or other Boards of the County (or his/
            her/their authorized representative). (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
 
1-9-4: REQUISITION, PURCHASING POLICY AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Supervision, Approval: All purchases shall be under the direct
supervision and approval of each department head or supervised department head
that is responsible for the budget of that department. Failure to comply with
this policy shall subject the offender to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination.
   B.   Purchasing Limits and Records Retention:
      1.   Small Blanket Orders: The department head or supervised department
head may make purchases of goods or services in the amount of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) or less for single purchases, and twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) or less in annual aggregate with the same vendor. The
department head or supervised department head is not required to use
competitive bidding, but must negotiate and use competitive pricing.
      2.   Small Purchases: The department head and supervised department head
may make purchases of goods or services of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00)
or less. The department head or supervised department head is not required to
use competitive bidding, but must use competitive pricing of at least three (3)
vendors. A requisition/purchase order is not required. A copy of the receipt/
voucher signed by the appropriate department head or supervised department head
is required.
      3.   Intermediate Purchases: The department head or supervised department
head may make purchases of goods and/or services in the amount greater than
thirty thousand dollars (>$30,000.00) and equal to or less than sixty-five
thousand dollars (≤$65,000.00). Intermediate purchases shall be made by one (1)
of the following procurement procedures: (a) Invitation for bids or (b) Request
for proposals. The department head or supervised department head must deliver
the invitation for bids, requests for proposals, and contract for attorney
review two weeks before the invitation for bids, requests for proposals, and/or
contract is published and/or signed. Attorney review required for purchases
involving services.
      4.   Major Purchases: A department head may make major purchases of goods
and/or services greater than sixty-five-thousand dollars (>$65,000.00) without
consultation with or direction from the County Commission, but is still
required to follow the procurement process. The supervised department head
shall prepare, review, and present recommendations to the County Commission for
major purchases of goods and/or services, as defined herein. At the direction
of the County Commission, the supervised department head shall purchase by one
of the following procurement procedures: (a) Invitation for Bids or (b) Request
for Proposals. Attorney review required for purchases involving services.
      5.   Change Orders: Subject to
1-9-7, the department head may make change orders, either singly or in the
aggregate, for amounts less than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or ten
percent (10%) of the total contract price, whichever is higher, without
approval of the County Commission so long as it is within the appropriated
budget for the supplies, equipment, goods, or services. Any change order,
either singly or in the aggregate, that exceeds the higher of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) or ten percent (10%) of the total contract price must be
reported and discussed in an open meeting, as defined by Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-
101 et seq., held by the County Commission, but the department head is not
required to receive approval of such change orders from the County Commission.
The County Commission must approve any change order a supervised department
head submits that exceeds the higher of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or
ten percent (10%) of the total contract price. Attorney review is required for
change orders involving contracts for services. The department head or
supervised department head that approves a change order must memorialize such
change order pursuant to
1-9-7 of this chapter.
      6.   Purchases Made Within Statewide-Pricing: Whenever the State of Utah
participates in or has negotiated a set price or has approved a cooperative
contract with another cooperative agency or vendor/contractor, the department
head or supervised department head is authorized to purchase goods and services
without authorization or procurement methods less than or equal to one hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00). Contracts and pricing approved via NASPO
or other Associated State of Utah contract agencies are included within this
section. Any goods or services in the amount greater than one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000.00) shall be governed by the same procedures as
major purchases. Please see section
1-9-9 below.
      7.   Summary of Purchasing Policy:
 
Category        Limitation      Authorization   Documentation   Procurement
                $1,500.00 or
                less in single
                orders;         Department Head                 No competitive
Small Blanket   $20,000.00 or   or Supervised   Receipt/Voucher bidding
Orders          less in the     Department Head                 required
                annual
                aggregate from
                the same vendor
                                Department Head Receipt/Voucher Competitive
Small purchases $30,000.00 or   or Supervised   or purchase     pricing of at
                less            Department Head order           least three (3)
                                                                vendors
                                Department Head
                                or Supervised                   Request for
                                Department                      Information,
Intermediate    $30,000.01 to   Head.           Receipt/Voucher Invitation for
purchases       $65,000.00      Attorney review or purchase     Bids, or
                                required for    order           Request for
                                purchases                       Proposals
                                involving
                                services.
                                Department
                                Head. For
                                Supervised
                                Department
                                Head, the                       Invitation for
Major purchases $65,000.01 or   County          Receipt/        Bids or Request
                more            Commission.     Voucher         for Proposals
                                Attorney review
                                required for
                                purchases
                                involving
                                services.
                                Department Head
                                and Supervised
                                Department Head
                                for change
                                orders equal to
                                or less than
                                the change
                                order limits.
                                The Department
                                Head must
                                report and
                                discuss in
                                Commission
                                Meeting any
                                change order
                                exceeding the
                                limits, but
                                does not have
                                to have
                The higher of   approval of the
                $20,000.00 or   County          Change Order    Negotiation for
Change Orders   10% of the      Commission      Form signed by  competitive
                total contract  before          all parties     price
                price           approving the
                                change order.
                                The County
                                Commission must
                                approve in
                                Commission
                                Meeting any
                                change order
                                submitted by
                                the Supervised
                                Department Head
                                over change
                                order limits.
                                Attorney review
                                required for
                                change orders
                                involving
                                initial
                                contracts for
                                services.
Purchases Made                  The                             No procurement
Within          $150,000.00 or  authorization                   method required
Statewide-      less            procedures      Receipt/Voucher (see
Pricing                         under "Major                    exceptions)
                                Purchases"
 
   C.   Unbudgeted Funds: Any purchases or expenditures from unbudgeted funds
shall require the consent of the County Commission and the appropriate
department head.
   D.   Subdivision Of Purchase Prohibited: No contract or purchase shall be
subdivided so as to avoid purchasing limits or other requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-5: INVITATION FOR BIDS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Where invitation for bids is required under
1-9-4(B), the following process must be followed:
      1.   Drafting And Attorney Review: The department head or supervised
department head must draft the contract and bid, and for intermediate
purchases, major purchases, and change orders, must deliver to the attorney the
contract, bid or request for proposal at least two (2) weeks before the
invitation for bids or requests for proposals is first published.
      2.    Advertisement: Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be
advertised on an internet purchasing website or a county website. The content
of the advertisement must contain a general topical description of the goods
and/or services the county seeks to obtain and where the contract and detailed
description of the scope of goods and/or services might be obtained. The
advertisement must also include the date, time, and place assigned for the
opening of bids and a statement that no bids shall be accepted at any time
subsequent to the time indicated in the announcement. An extension of time may,
however, be granted for the submission of such bids upon proper advertisement
of such with modified details.
      3.   The Invitation For Bids And Contract: The invitation for bids and
contract, including a detailed description of the scope of goods and services
sought and the duties and obligations of the bidder, must be posted on the
County's website or internet procurement site. The duration of the time for
submission of the bids must last no less than seven (7) days. The bidder must
agree to the provisions in the contract and agree to sign the contract in full
once the bid is accepted or acceptance will be revoked and awarded to the next
lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
      4.   Bid Opening: Sealed bids shall be submitted as designated in the
notice with the statement "Bid for (Good and/or Service)" on the envelope. Bids
shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the notice. A
tabulation of all bids received shall be open for the public inspection during
regular business hours. A contract may not be awarded to a non-responsive
bidder or non-responsible person.
      5.   Example of Process:
         • July 1: Contract has been drafted by Department Head
         • July 2: Contract is sent to attorney for review (2 week review)
         • July 16: Advertisement for invitation for bids is posted on the
County's website or posted on a procurement website; The invitation for bids
and associated contract is posted on the County's website; Time for Submission
of Bids is Open (2 weeks)
         • July 24: Time for submission of bids is closed. (or however long the
Department Head or Supervised Department Head determine is appropriate)
         • July 25: Department Head or Supervised Department Head opens sealed
bids in open meetings.
   B.   Rejection Of Bids: The County shall have the authority to reject any or
all bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed bid for any reason allowed by
law, including, but not limited to, situations where the low responsive and
responsible bid exceeds available funds as certified by the appropriate county
officer, or when the public interest will be served thereby. Where a bid
exceeds available funds and time or economic considerations preclude
resolicitation of work or purchase of a reduced scope or quantity, the county
may, at its sole discretion, negotiate an adjustment of the bid price,
including changes in the bid requirements, with the low responsible bidder, in
order to bring the low responsible bid within the amount of available funds.
   C.   Tie Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total
amount from equally responsive and responsible bidders, the county may, at its
sole discretion, negotiate with the tie bidders, award the bid by lot, or
readvertise the invitation for bids.
   D.   Local Preference: If a low bid is submitted by a nonlocal vendor, the
bid may be awarded to a responsive and responsible local vendor if the local
vendor's bid is within 10% of the low nonlocal vendor's bid.
   E.   Lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder: In determining who is the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder, in addition to price, the county may
consider factors relevant to the successful operation of the county's business
and the best interests of the county as a whole. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-6: REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS:
   A.   Use Of Request For Proposals In Lieu Of Invitation For Bids: When the
department head or supervised department head determines that the use of
invitation for bids is either not practicable or advantageous to the County, a
contract may be entered into by use of a request for proposals. Requests for
proposals may be used for the procurement of services of consultants or
professionals, whether or not the determination described in this section has
been made.
   B.   Where request for proposals method is used by the department head, the
following process must be followed:
      1.   Advertisement: Public notice of the request for proposals shall be
advertised on an internet purchasing website or a county website, for two (2)
consecutive weeks. The content of the advertisement must contain a general
topical description of the goods and/or services the county seeks to obtain and
where a detailed description of the scope of goods and/or services requested
and other requirements may be found. The advertisement must also include the
date, time, and place assigned for the opening of proposals and a statement
that no proposals shall be accepted at any time subsequent to the advertised
deadline. An extension of time may, however, be granted for the submission of
such proposals upon proper advertisement of such with modified details.
      2.   The Request For Proposals: The request for proposals shall include a
detailed description of the scope of goods and services sought, the duties and
obligations of the offeror, the evaluating factors used to select a proposal,
and the time the proposal must remain valid. The duration of the time for
submission of the proposal must last no less than seven (7) days. Any request
for proposal, whether explicitly stated or not, shall not constitute an offer
or require an acceptance by the County at any time during the procurement
process.
      3.   Proposals Opening: Proposals shall be submitted as designated in the
notice with the statement "Proposals for (Goods and/or Services)" on the
envelope. Once the deadline to submit proposals has expired, the department
gead or supervised department head shall ensure that proposals are opened in a
manner that avoids disclosing the contents to competing offerors during the
evaluation process.
      4.   Conferring with Offerors: Once the proposals have been opened and
reviewed, the Department Head may confer, discuss, and/or negotiate with the
responsible offeror for the purpose of fully understanding the offeror's
proposal. Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals. In the discussion
with offerors, the Department Head must not disclose information derived from
proposals submitted by competing offerors.
      5.   Submission Of Revisions To Proposals After Discussion: If the
department head or supervised department head confers with offerors as set
forth in Subsection 4 above, revisions may be permitted after submissions and
before the contract is awarded for the purpose of clarifying the offeror's
proposal or obtaining the best and final offers. All revisions must be made in
writing and submitted with all other changes.
      6.   Awarding Of Proposal: The contract shall be awarded to the
responsible and responsive offeror whose proposal is determined in writing to
be the most advantageous to the county, taking into consideration the price and
evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. No other factors or
criteria shall be used in the evaluation.
      7.   The contract file shall contain the basis on which the award is
made.
      8.   Example Of Process:
         • July 1: Proposal has been drafted by department head or supervised
department head
         • July 2: Proposal is sent to attorney for review for proposals that
may result in intermediate or major purchases, as defined in this chapter (One
(1) week review required, unless attorney states otherwise)
         • July 16: Advertisement for requests for proposals is posted on the
County's website or posted on a procurement website; The requests for proposals
is posted on the County's website; time for submission of proposals is open
         • July 24: Time for submission of bids is closed. (Eight (8) days, or
however long the department head or supervised department head determines is
appropriate)
         • July 25: Department head or supervised department head opens sealed
proposals on day designated in advertisement.
         • July 26-July 28: Conferral with Offerors: Upon review of the
proposals, department head or supervised department head decides to contact ALL
proposers to confer, negotiate, and/or discuss proposal. Department head or
supervised department head informs ALL proposers that they must resubmit
proposals with modifications, if any, by August 3 at five o’clock (5:00) P.M.
         • August 4: Opening of modified proposals
         • August 5: Awarding of contract based upon particular evaluating
factors that are noted in the file.
         • August 6: Contract is drafted by department head and supervised
department head memorializing proposal's terms and conditions signed by both
parties.
         • August 7: Attorney reviews contracts for intermediate and major
purchases, based upon purchase limitations (Two (2) week review required,
unless attorney states otherwise).
         • August 21: Parties sign contract. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-7: CHANGE ORDERS:
   A.   Purpose: Change orders shall only be used for unexpected circumstances
that require the price, performance, or other terms of the contract to be
modified. Change orders shall NOT be used to circumvent the procurement process
by bidding low, being awarded the bid, and later requesting multiple change
orders. Such practice will not be tolerated and will allow the County to
terminate any agreement upon evidence that such is occurring.
   B.   Use of Change Orders: Change orders shall be discouraged if at all
possible.
   C.   Negotiation of Change Order: The department head or supervised
department head shall negotiate, to the greatest extent possible, the most
advantageous terms to the County.
   D.   Form: A change order must be memorialized in substantially the same
form as below and be approved by the department head or supervised department
head. The Change Order Form must be attached to the contract in the contract
file. These forms are available through the County Clerk's or Attorney's Office
- Civil Division.
CHANGE ORDER REQUEST FORM
Change Order No:                      Contract No. _________
________________________
To: _________________________________ Date: _______________
Project Name: ______________________________________________
Under our AGREEMENT dated__________________________, _________:
You hereby are authorized and directed to make the following change(s) in
accordance with terms and conditions of the Agreement:
Description of the Change: ________________________________________
FOR THE Additive (Deductive) Sum of: $__________________________________
Original Agreement Amount:            $__________________________
Sum of Previous Changes:              $__________________________
This Change Order Add (Deduct):       $__________________________
Present Agreement Amount:             $__________________________
The time for completion shall be increased/decreased/stay the same by calendar
days due to this Change Order. Accordingly, the Contract Time is now _____
calendar days and the completion date is _______. Your acceptance of this
Change Order shall constitute a modification to our Agreement and will be
performed subject to all the same terms and conditions in our Agreement
indicated above, as fully as if the same were repeated in this acceptance.
The Contract Administrator has directed the Contractor to increase the penal
sum of existing Performance and Payment Bonds or to obtain additional bonds on
the basis of a $20,000.00 or greater value change order or combined change
orders that in the aggregate exceed $20,000.00.
[ ] Check, if applicable, and provide written confirmation from the bonding
company/agent (attorney-in-fact) that the amount of the Performance and Payment
Bonds have been adjusted to 100% of the new contract amount.
Date:________                         ________________________________________
                                      Department Head/County Commissioner
Date:                                 _________________________________________
 
(Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-8: INTERLOCAL COOPERATION:
Wherever the public benefit can be maximized and costs minimized by entering
into joint agreements with other public agencies or organizations for the
purchase or construction of any commodity, service, or public work, the County
shall have the power to so agree, upon approval and action by the department
head or supervised department head (or County Commission based upon price
limitations in Section
1-9-4). (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-9: EXCEPTIONS TO THE STANDARD PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   To the extent set forth herein or as otherwise required by law, the
following purchases are exempt from the standard procurement procedures
outlined in this chapter:
      1.   For goods and/or services made available by any federal, state or
local unit of government, or agency thereof, including associations of
government of which the county is a member, such as the Utah Association of
Counties and the National Association of Counties, where such materials,
supplies or services are currently being provided to such governmental entity,
agency or association, and were acquired after competitive bidding or were
otherwise procured in a manner consistent with the requirements of this
purchasing chapter; provided however, that it may be presumed that acquisitions
by the state were procured in a manner consistent with this chapter;
      2.   Purchases from vendors on the state of Utah purchasing office bid
list or in the NAACO purchasing program.
      3.   For medicines or medical supplies which are not generic in nature;
      4.   For goods purchased for authorized resale;
      5.   For perishable or nonperishable subsistence supplies;
      6.   For goods and services which, after consulting with appropriate
technical experts or county agencies, are determined to be of a nature that the
procurement thereof without advertising is necessary to assure standardization
of equipment and interchangeability, integration of goods and/or services, and
that such standardization or integration is necessary in the public interest;
      7.   For property or services as to which, with the advice of the
appropriate technical departmental personnel and contracted consultants, it is
determined that bid prices, after advertising once for competitive bids, are
not reasonable (either as to all or as to some part of the requirement), exceed
the estimated construction cost of a public improvement project by an amount
that is unacceptable to the County Commission, or have not been independently
arrived at in open competition; provided, that no negotiated purchase or
contract may be entered into under this subsection after the rejection of all
of the bids received, unless notification of the intention to negotiate and
reasonable opportunity to negotiate shall have been given by the department
head or supervised department head to each responsible bidder whose bid
conformed to the invitation for bids, and the negotiated price is the lowest
negotiated price offered by any reasonable supplier; and, provided further,
that the department head or supervised department head may, at the department
head or supervised department head's discretion, elect to readvertise for bids;
      8.   The public exigency will not tolerate the delay incident to the
advertising for or soliciting of bids or proposals. This exception may not be
used as an excuse for negligent or intentional lack of preparation on the part
of the Department Head or Supervised Department Head;
      9.   For a product, consultant or service which can be procured from only
one source, manufacturer or distributor;
      10.   By their nature, such purchase orders or other contracts are not
adapted to award by competitive bidding or requests for proposals, such as
those for:
         a.   The services of individuals possessing a high degree of
professional skill where the ability or fitness of the individual plays an
important part;
         b.   The publication of legal notices, ordinances, resolutions and
other legal advertising;
         c.   The private placement of bonds, tax anticipation notes, or other
instruments of indebtedness;
         d.   Utility services such as water, light, heat, telephone, and
internet, except when alternative supplies or services are available;
         e.   The purchase of subscriptions, media advertisement, magazines,
books, trade journals, reference works, periodicals, examination or testing
materials, and similar articles of an educational, informational or
instructional nature;
         f.   Contracting for goods and/or services pursuant to requests
originating under the county policy on contributions or grants;
         g.    Such other personal property or services as the County
Commission may determine to be, by their nature, not adapted to award by
competitive bidding;
      11.   Repetitive Purchases Through Statewide Contract: Repetitive
purchases of noncapitalized items which are acquired through an underlying
statewide contract may be set up as blanket orders. These countywide blanket
orders require the same reviews and approvals as specified by ordinance or by
purchasing policies.
      12.   Software required for County purposes. The Department Head or
Supervised Department Head must negotiate or use competitive pricing to
purchase goods or services. For authorization of software purchases that would
constitute a major purchase, the Supervised Department Head must still receive
County Commission approval.
      13.   A contract for management, maintenance, operation, or construction
of jails, which shall be governed in accordance with Utah Code § 17-53-311, as
amended.
      14.   Otherwise authorized or prescribed by law.
   B.   Requirements; Conditions: In negotiating contracts or purchase orders
for the above referenced procurement exceptions, the department head or
supervised department head must ensure that:
      1.   All aspects of the business transaction are fully resolved, to
include price, delivery date, delivery terms, acceptance period, warranties,
funding terms, and such other terms and conditions as are appropriate;
      2.   The file reflects price or cost analysis or such other evidence of
reasonable pricing and other information concerning contract or award matters
as will reasonably support the award of the contract to the vendor;
      3.   All files relating to the award of a contract based upon "public
exigency" reflect that the need was compelling and of unusual urgency, as when
the county would be seriously injured financially or otherwise, if the personal
property or services to be purchased or contracted for were not furnished by a
certain time, and when they could not be procured by that time by means of
formal advertising. This applies irrespective of whether that urgency could or
should have been foreseen;
      4.   All files relating to the award of a contract based upon "sole
source" reflect why that vendor or consultant is the only source of supply for
the item, why that particular item is required; and
      5.   Prior to submission of a bilateral contract for execution, the
contract shall be reviewed and approved by the organization acquiring the
personal property or services and by such other agencies as may be specified by
ordinance, or by purchasing policies and approved as to form by the county
attorney.
   C.   Negotiated Procurement: Negotiated procurement shall be on a
competitive basis to the maximum practical extent.
   D.   Exceptions: This chapter shall not apply to the granting or issuance,
pursuant to powers conferred by laws, ordinances or resolutions, of franchises,
licenses, permits or other authorizations by the County Commission, or by other
organizations of the county. This section shall not be construed as authorizing
the waiver of competitive bidding when such bidding is required by the
provisions of any federal or state grant, or relevant federal or state statute
or regulation. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-10: EMERGENCY PROCUREMENT:
   A.   Permitted: Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the
department head or supervised department head may make or authorize others to
make emergency procurement when there exists a threat to public health, welfare
or safety under emergency conditions, as hereinafter set forth; provided, that
such emergency procurement shall be made with such competition as is
practicable under the circumstances. A written determination of the basis for
the emergency and for the selection of the particular contractor shall be
included in the contract file.
      1.   Emergency Condition Described: An "emergency condition" is a
situation which creates a threat to public health, welfare or safety, such as
may arise by reason of floods, epidemics, riots, equipment failures,
earthquakes, or such other reason as may be proclaimed by the County
Commission. The existence of such conditions creates an immediate and serious
need for supplies, services or construction that cannot be met through normal
procurement methods, and the lack of which would seriously threaten:
         a.   The functioning of county government;
         b.   The preservation or protection of property; or
         c.   The health or safety of any person.
   B.   Limitations: Emergency procurement shall be limited to those supplies,
services or construction items necessary to meet the emergency. The department
head or County Commission (for a supervised department head), may make
emergency procurement when an emergency condition arises and the need cannot be
met through normal procurement methods. Procurement pursuant to an emergency
not yet formally declared should follow the procedures outlined in the county
emergency plan.
   C.   Procurement Method: The department head or supervised department head
shall select a procurement method sufficient to assure that the required
supplies, services or construction items are procured in time to meet the
emergency. Given this constraint, such competition as is practicable shall be
obtained by the department.
   D.   Written Determination; Record: The department head or supervised
department head shall make a written determination stating the basis for an
emergency procurement and for the selection of a particular contractor. Such
determination, together with a copy of the purchase requisitions for the
materials, supplies, equipment or construction items which were purchased,
shall be sent promptly to the County Commission. Additionally, the department
head or supervised department head, as soon as practicable, shall prepare a
record of each emergency procurement which shall set forth:
      1.   The contractor's name;
      2.   The amount and type of the contract; and
      3.   A listing of the supplies, services or construction procured under
the contract. Copies of such records shall be promptly submitted to the County
Commission. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-11: COLLUSION AMONG BIDDERS, ADVANCE DISCLOSURES:
   A.   Collusion: Any agreement or collusion among bidders or prospective
bidders to bid a fixed price or limit competition shall render the bids of such
bidders void, and such conduct shall be unlawful and subject to a Class B
Misdemeanor.
   B.   Disclosures: Any disclosure made or permitted by the department head or
supervised department head or others in advance of the opening of bids of the
terms of the bids submitted in response to an advertisement, shall render the
entire proceeding void and shall require repeating the entire procurement
process.
   C.   Contracts Require Clause: All contracts with the county shall be deemed
to contain a clause under which all vendors/suppliers of goods and/or services
shall certify that neither they nor their agents or employees have restrained
free and competitive bidding for the contract by conspiring with any other
person to fix bids for, or compensation under, the contract; by obtaining
information from any county agent or employee, in advance of the public opening
of bids or proposals for the contract, concerning the contents of competitor's
bids or proposals; by discouraging or eliminating competition by any means; or
by taking any action while seeking the contract which violates law or county
purchasing policies. A violation of the clause shall entitle the County
Commission to immediately cancel the contract for material breach thereof and
the county shall thereafter be entitled to seek damages as allowed by law for
breach of contract. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-12: BONDS OF BIDDERS:
   A.   Deposit: Cash, a cashier's check or a certified check, as a deposit of
good faith, in a reasonable amount, but not in excess of ten percent (10%) of
the bid amount, may be required of each bidder by the department head or
supervised department head on all bids involving amounts in excess of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
   B.   Construction Contract: When a construction contract is awarded under
this chapter, the contractor to whom the contract is awarded shall deliver the
following bonds or security to the procurement unit, which shall become binding
on the parties upon the execution of the contract:
      1.   A performance bond satisfactory to the department head or supervised
department head that is in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
price specified in the contract and is executed by a surety company authorized
to do business in the state or any other form satisfactory to the County; and
      2.   A payment bond satisfactory to the department head or supervised
department head that is in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
price specified in the contract and is executed by a surety company authorized
to do business in the state or any other form satisfactory to the procurement
unit, which is for the protection of each person supplying labor, service,
equipment, or material for the performance of the work provided for in the
contract.
   C.   Waiver of Requirements: The department head or supervised department
head may provide for waiver of the requirement of a bid, performance, or
payment bond for circumstances in which the department head or supervised
department head considers any or all of the bonds to be unnecessary to protect
the procurement unit.
   D.   Execution of Bonds: A person shall have a right of action on a payment
bond under this section for any unpaid amount due to the person if:
      1.   The person has furnished labor, service, equipment, or material for
the work provided for in the contract for which the payment bond is furnished
under this section; and
      2.   The person has not been paid in full within ninety (90) days after
the last day on which the person performed the labor or service or supplied the
equipment or material for which the claim is made.
      The County shall have a right of action on a performance bond under this
section for any minor or material term that has not been met. Such performance
bond may be executed upon in the amount that would be required to repair,
replace, or reconstruct any minor or material term that has not been completed
by a contractor, whether it be because of the sole negligence or partial
negligence of the Contractor's subcontractors.
   E.   Jurisdiction of Court: An action upon a payment bond may only be
brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the county where the
construction contract was to be performed. The action is barred if not
commenced within one year after the last day on which the claimant performed
the labor or service or supplied the equipment or material on which the claim
is based. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-13: ATTORNEY REVIEW OF INVITATION FOR BIDS, REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS, OR
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS:
Subject to specifications in Section
1-9-4 of this Code, prior to advertising for bids or soliciting proposals for
any goods or services, the department head or supervised department head shall
have all invitations for bids, requests for proposals, or corresponding
contracts reviewed and approved as to form by the County Attorney or Deputy
County Attorney.
1-9-14: RETENTION AND ACCESS OF PROCUREMENT DOCUMENTS:
   A.   An official copy of each awarded purchase order or other contract,
together with all necessary attachments, including assignments and written
consents of the department head or supervised department head shall be retained
by the department head or supervised department head in an appropriate file
open to the public for three years, except if:
      1.   An independent audit has been conducted of the year the purchase was
made and is found to be clear of any wrongdoing or unresolved discrepancies;
and
      2.   The paper documentation has been converted to an electronic copy and
is stored in electronic format, then the paper copy may be destroyed but the
electronic copy must be kept.
   B.   Records or information submitted to or by a governmental entity in
relation to the procurement process, including bids, proposals, application, or
other information in response to an invitation for bids, a request for
proposals, a request for quotes, a grant, or other similar document may be
accessed by any person after the contract or bid has been awarded, except for
records or information, or parts of either, may be protected from access to the
public if the bidder, proposer, offeror, or other similar individual submits a
claim of business confidentiality and a concise statement of reasons supporting
the claim of business confidentiality, as defined under Utah Code Ann. § 63G-2-
309, related to trade secrets, commercial information, or nonindividual
financial information. (Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
1-9-15: ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACTS:
Any assignment by a successful bidder or offeror shall be void without written
consent by the department head or supervised department head. (Ord. 21-386, 6-
14-2021)
1-9-16: PROTESTS:
Persons who are aggrieved over a request for bid, or proposal, may protest to
the department head or supervised department head. A protest in regard to the
specification of a request for bid or proposal shall be submitted, in writing,
prior to the opening of bids or proposals. All other protests shall be
submitted in writing within five (5) working days after the aggrieved person
knows or should have known that it was the county's intent to award the bid or
contract.
   A.   If a protest is received before award, the county shall not proceed
further in its attempt to acquire the goods or services until the protest is
either withdrawn or approved for award by the County Commission. The department
head or supervised department head, after consultation with the County Attorney
or Deputy County Attorney may, however, make a written determination that the
award of contract, without delay, is necessary to protect the interests of the
county.
   B.   Protest letters should specifically and completely state the facts
which constitute error in the award and the desired remedy. The Department Head
or Supervised Department Head may refer the protest to appropriate county staff
and the County Attorney or Deputy County Attorney to investigate and make a
recommendation. An informal meeting may be scheduled if more information is
needed. After review by the department head or supervised department head, the
department head or supervised department head shall make a recommendation to
the board of county commissioners, who shall make a decision on the protest.
(Ord. 21-386, 6-14-2021)
CHAPTER 10
DISPOSITION OF COUNTY REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Disposal Of Property Authorized
1-10-2: Personal Property
1-10-3: Real Property In Public Use
1-10-4: Real Property Not In Public Use
1-10-5: Approval By Commission; Recordkeeping
1-10-6: General Rules
1-10-7: Disposition Of Oil, Gas, And Associated Hydrocarbons
1-10-8: No Rights Created In Third Parties
1-10-1: DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY AUTHORIZED:
The board of county commissioners may dispose of, or control the disposition
of, any county property, real or personal (including lost or abandoned
property, and property whereby the county has any legal or equitable interest),
the disposition of which is determined to be in the public interest and in
accordance with good property management. The disposition of property or any
interest therein, may be by public or private sale, exchange, exchange and
sale, option to purchase, lease, lease with an option to purchase, rental,
trade in, public auction, public advertisement for sealed bids, or any other
lawful manner or means. Such disposition shall not be for less than a full and
adequate consideration unless otherwise permitted by law, and such
consideration may be other than monetary. (Ord. 11-291, 12-12-2011)
1-10-2: PERSONAL PROPERTY:
The power to dispose of surplus, obsolete or unusable personal property held by
the county is vested in the county auditor, and such disposition may be made in
any manner consistent with county policy. The county auditor shall have
discretion, subject to the best interests of the county and its residents, and
in accordance with good property management techniques, over the disposition
and manner of disposition of surplus, obsolete or unusable personal property.
However, no such disposition shall be final without the approval of the county
commission. (Ord. 11-291, 12-12-2011)
1-10-3: REAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Recommendation Of Planning Commission; Approval Of County Commission;
Hearing Required: The disposition of real property that is in the public use,
regardless of the value thereof, shall be made only with the approval of the
county commission and after receiving a recommendation from the appropriate
planning commission where the property is situated and the holding of a public
hearing with proper notice.
   B.   Included Real Property:
      1.   Real property in public use is deemed to be significant real
property for purposes of state law, and includes, but is not limited to, realty
and improvements thereon in actual current use as governmental offices or other
public buildings, courthouses, jails, police stations, fire stations, developed
parks or other recreational or entertainment facilities, utilities, cemeteries,
animal control facilities, hospitals or other health facilities, facilities for
the welfare of the indigent, sanitary landfills, or any other realty or
improvement thereon held for the benefit or advantage of the general public and
not confined to use by privileged or particular individuals, without regard to
whether that use may be classified as governmental or proprietary.
      2.   In addition to subsection B1 of this section, real property is
deemed to be significant real property for purposes of state law if it is
larger than ten (10) acres, or has an estimated value, as determined by the
board of county commissioners, of more than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00). The county's interest in any oil, gas, and associated
hydrocarbons shall not be considered significant real property or in the public
use, and may be disposed of as outlined in section
1-10-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Public Hearing; Notice: The county commission shall call and hold a
public hearing concerning disposition of realty under this section, which
hearing may be at any special or regularly scheduled meeting of the county
commission. All interested persons may appear and be heard at the hearing.
Public notice shall be given of the hearing, which shall contain the date, time
and place thereof, a statement of the purpose of the hearing, and a description
of the property or the interest therein to be disposed of. Such notice shall be
published at least once prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county, and the hearing shall be held no sooner than
fourteen (14) days after the publication of the notice thereof. (Ord. 11-291,
12-12-2011)
1-10-4: REAL PROPERTY NOT IN PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Included Real Property: Realty not in public use includes, but is not
limited to, realty or improvements thereon existing as vacant lands; real
property with vacant or unused buildings, structures or other improvements
thereon; buildings used as maintenance or repair facilities and not open to the
general public; buildings rented or leased by the county to private entities;
or any other realty or improvements thereon not held for the benefit or
advantage of the public, nor open to the general public or to a substantial
portion thereof.
   B.   Approval By Commission: The county commission shall approve the sale of
such realty during any special or regularly scheduled meeting of the county
commission. No public hearing is required.
   C.   Disposal Of Property: Where property is acquired by the county for a
specific purpose (such as in the case of transfers of development rights), said
property may be disposed of by the county for that purpose under this section
as real property not in public use. The county commission may delegate the
authority to dispose of this classification of property to an administrative
official of the county. (Ord. 11-291, 12-12-2011)
1-10-5: APPROVAL BY COMMISSION; RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   Approval: No disposition of real or personal property, in public use or
otherwise, shall be finalized until the county commission, at a special or
regularly scheduled commission meeting, shall have reviewed and approved the
disposition by motion (personalty) or resolution (realty), manner of
disposition, and consideration benefiting the county; except that the county
commission may, on a case by case basis, preauthorize the final disposition of
surplus property subject to such restrictions, if any, as it may deem
appropriate. If such final disposition is authorized by the county commission,
the results of the final disposition shall be submitted to the county
commission for approval and ratification.
   B.   Records: The county auditor shall maintain permanent public records for
conveyances of real property and transactions involving personal property
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Such records must reflect a
description of the property sold or otherwise conveyed, an appraisal of the
real property conveyed, the manner of disposition, the consideration received
by the county, the identity of the person to whom such property was sold or
otherwise disposed of, the date of disposition, the date of approval by the
county commission, and the nature of the county's use of the property prior to
disposition. (Ord. 11-291, 12-12-2011)
1-10-6: GENERAL RULES:
   A.   Condemnation: If real property was acquired by condemnation, the county
shall give the original owner the right of first refusal prior to the
disposition thereof.
   B.   Federal Interests: If real property was acquired with federal funds,
the federal government must consent to any disposal thereof.
   C.   Abandonment: Where the county has acquired real or personal property by
dedication for a specific purpose, it may abandon its interests to such only
through a vacation proceeding. In the case of all other assets, the vacation is
enacted by resolution of the county commission at a public meeting which has
been properly noticed in accordance with the open meeting laws. Once the
county's interest in the property has been vacated, the ownership of the
property shall inure to the original owner who dedicated such to the county in
the case of personal property or wholly dedicated land, or to the current owner
where the county merely acquired a right of way interest to the land.
   D.   Tax Sale: Where the county has acquired real property through
delinquent taxes, the tax sale requirements and procedures of Utah Code
Annotated section 59-2-1301 et seq., shall apply. (Ord. 11-291, 12-12-2011)
1-10-7: DISPOSITION OF OIL, GAS, AND ASSOCIATED HYDROCARBONS:
   A.   Quarterly Disposition Auctions: The county commission shall hold
quarterly lease auctions (held the first county commission meeting in April,
July, October and January) to consider any submitted interests herein.
      1.   The commission chair shall state for the record each interested
party that submitted a proposal;
      2.   The commission chair shall then open each sealed proposal and state
the terms for the record;
      3.   After all proposals have been read into the record the successful
applicant (based on greatest monetary value to the county) shall be named and
the lease shall be signed.
      4.   In the event multiple proposals have the same terms, the commission
chair shall open the meeting to receive verbal bids from the various parties
until the highest bid is received.
   B.   Standardized Form Of Lease: The Duchesne County commission shall
approve by resolution a standard form of lease to be used in the disposition of
its oil, gas, and associated hydrocarbons.
   C.   Submission Of Interest To Lease Certain Oil, Gas, And Associated
Hydrocarbons: Any interested party may submit in writing its proposal to lease
certain oil, gas, and associated hydrocarbons held by Duchesne County to the
Duchesne County clerk. To be considered for the next auction, the proposal
shall include the following information contained in a cover letter:
      1.   The legal description of interested land, preferred auction date,
and contact information;
      2.   Be filed not later than the tenth day of the month prior to the
quarterly disposition auction.
   D.   Time For Submission: Following the submission of the cover letter, to
be considered in the next auction, the interested party must also submit a
sealed proposal (or bid) using the duly adopted standardized form of lease
outlined herein. Such bid must be received by the Duchesne County clerk not
later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the last business day immediately prior
to the proposed auction date, which shall be the first occurring regularly
scheduled county commission meeting in each quarter identified as April, July,
October and January. Any sealed proposal (or bid) received after this date may
be considered in the next quarterly auction.
   E.   Notice Of Auction: The Duchesne County clerk shall publish twice, no
sooner than fourteen (14) days prior to each quarterly auction, in a paper of
general circulation within the county notice of each auction, including the
legal descriptions of the properties and post said notice on the Utah public
notice website.
   F.   Sale Of Oil, Gas, And Associated Hydrocarbons: Nothing in this section
may prohibit the county's ability to sell a portion of its interest in oil,
gas, and associated hydrocarbons. Except that the procedures established in
section
1-10-3 of this chapter shall then apply before any such disposition may occur.
(Ord. 12-297, 2-27-2012)
1-10-8: NO RIGHTS CREATED IN THIRD PARTIES:
This chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be construed to, create any
rights, claims or causes of action in third parties. (Ord. 11-291, 12-12-2011)
CHAPTER 11
CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Financial Statements
1-11-3: Contributions
1-11-4: Compliance
1-11-5: Eliminated Candidates
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
 
              Includes monetary contributions and nonmonetary contributions,
CONTRIBUTION: such as in-kind contributions and contributions of tangible
              things.
              Monetary expenditures and nonmonetary expenditures, such as in-
EXPENDITURE:  kind contributions and contributions of tangible things.(Ord. 22-
              394, 3-14-2022)
 
1-11-2: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
Candidates filing for county office or local school board office who reside in
this county shall report the candidate’s itemized and total campaign
contributions and expenditures to the County Clerk fourteen (14) days before
the date of the regular primary election and the regular general election and
no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the regular general election.
If the reporting deadline falls on a weekend or holiday, the report will be due
the following business day.
The statement filed fourteen (14) days before the regular primary election and
the regular general election shall include:
   A.   For each contribution, the name of the donor of the contribution, if
known, and the amount of the contribution; and,
   B.   For each expenditure, the name of the recipient and the amount of the
expenditure. (Ord. 22-394, 3-14-2022)
1-11-3: CONTRIBUTIONS:
Each candidate shall deposit contributions in a separate campaign account in a
financial institution:
   A.   It is prohibited for any candidate for county office or local school
board office to deposit or mingle any contributions received into a personal or
business account; and,
   B.   It is required that a candidate for county office who receives a
contribution that is cash or a negotiable instrument, exceeds $50.00, and is
from a donor whose name is unknown, shall, within 30 days after receiving the
contribution disburse the amount of the contribution to:
      1.   The treasurer of the state or a political subdivision for deposit
into the state’s or political subdivision’s general fund; or
      2.   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
Section 501(c)(3), Internal Revenue Code.
   C.   A candidate for county office or local school board office shall
include on a financial report filed in accordance with the ordinance a
contribution deposited in or an expenditure made from an account:
      1.   Since the last financial report was filed; or
      2.   That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs
the account. (Ord. 22-394, 3-14-2022)
1-11-4: COMPLIANCE:
Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter may result in fines,
sanctions and enforcement actions including disqualification as provided in
U.C.A. § 17-16-6.5. (Ord. 22-394, 3-14-2022)
1-11-5: ELIMINATED CANDIDATES:
Candidates for elective county office and candidates for local school board
office who are eliminated at a regular primary election shall file a signed
campaign financial statement containing the information required in
1-11-3 thirty (30) days after the regular primary election. If the reporting
deadline falls on a weekend or holiday, the report will be due the following
business day. (Ord. 22-394, 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 12
APPEAL OF CERTAIN COUNTY RECORDER RULE IMPLEMENTATIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1:    Appeal Right
1-12-2:    Notice Of Appeals
1-12-3:    Appeal Details
1-12-1: APPEAL RIGHT:
County Recorder decisions may be appealed:
   A.   By a person with standing that is adversely affected as a result of the
Recorder's decision by alleging that the Recorder's decision did not comply
with rules made by the County Recorder Standards Board under Utah Code Section
63C-30-202;
   B.   Only if it is the final decision issued by the Recorder, as appeals of
decisions made by supporting staff must be reviewed by the Recorder. (Ord. 23-
401, 7-10-2023)
1-12-2: NOTICE OF APPEALS:
Notices of Appeals must:
   A.   Commence within ten (10) business days of the adverse order,
requirement, decision, or determination by filing a written notice of appeal
with the County Recorder's Office;
   B.   Identify the decision being appealed and parties making the appeal; and
   C.   Identify and attach a copy of the rule issued by the County Recorder
Standards Board under Utah Code Section 63C-30-202 alleged to be implemented
incorrectly. (Ord. 23-401, 7-10-2023)
1-12-3: APPEAL DETAILS:
   A.   The appellant has the burden of showing the evidence and proving that
the Recorder's decision did not comply with rules made by the County Recorder
Standards Board under Utah Code Section 63C-30-202.
   B.   The Appeal Authority shall be the County Commission.
   C.   When a notice of appeal is filed, the Appeal Authority shall meet at
the call of the Commission Chair and any other time the County Commission deems
necessary and appropriate. The Appeal Authority shall maintain minutes and
records of its proceedings in accordance with the requirements of state and
local law. Nothing shall prohibit the Appeal Authority from meeting in
conjunction with a regularly scheduled meeting of the County Commission or in
conjunction with other meetings that involve the same individuals, such as a
meeting of the Board of Equalization;
   D.   The Appeal Authority may require written briefs or memorandum of the
parties as the Appeal Authority deems necessary. At the hearing, the appellant
must appear in person or by agent; and
   E.   Using substantial evidence as the standard of review, the Appeal
Authority determines the correctness of a decision of the Recorder in its
interpretation and application of rules made by the County Recorder Standards
Board under Utah Code Section 63C-30-202. Only those decisions in which the
Recorder has applied rules made by the County Recorder Standards Board under
Utah Code Section 63C-30-202 may be appealed; and
   F.   The Appeal Authority must issue a decision in writing within fifteen
(15) business days of the final hearing, which constitutes a final decision
under Utah Code Annotated Section 17-50-340 as amended; and
   G.   Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the Appeal
Authority may petition the Eighth District Court for review of the decision as
permitted by law; and
   H.   The Appeal Authority may order its decision stayed pending District
Court review if the Appeal Authority finds it to be in the best interest of the
County. (Ord. 23-401, 7-10-2023)
CHAPTER 13
USE OF POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGNS
SECTION:
1-13-1:    Political Campaign Signs
1-13-2:    Prohibited Signs
1-13-3:    Illumination And Movement
1-13-4:    Penalty
1-13-5:    Right To Removal
1-13-1:   POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGNS:
Within the unincorporated areas of Duchesne County, political campaign signs
are allowed on private property, and within the right-of-way of county-
maintained roads:
   A.   Signs may be located on private property with the prior permission of
the owner;
   B.   Signs may not be erected within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any
polling place, pursuant to Utah Code 20A-3a-501;
   C.   Signs may be placed in a county right-of-way subject to the following:
      1.   Signs may only be erected during the period thirty (30) days before
the beginning date of early voting;
      2.   Signs shall be removed within ten (10) calendar days following both
the primary and general election;
      3.   No sign located within the right-of-way shall be higher than forty-
two (42) inches above the edge of the pavement of the road;
      4.   Signs within the right-of-way may not obscure motorist visibility at
any intersection;
      5.   No sign shall be larger than six (6) square feet if it is within the
county right-of-way;
      6.   Signs must be at least four (4) feet from the edge of the pavement;
      7.   No sign shall obscure or replace another sign;
      8.   Signs are not allowed in the medians of any roadways;
      9.   The candidate must obtain the prior permission of any property owner
of a residence, business, or religious institution fronting the right-of-way
where a sign would be erected unless there is a fence or other structure/marker
defining the right-of-way from the property owner.
      10.   Nothing in this section allows for the placement of any sign within
a state right-of-way. Any sign placed within a state right-of-way is punishable
as a class B misdemeanor, Utah Code 72-7-102.
      11.   Nothing in this section allows for the placement of any sign upon
any other property owned by the State, County, and other governmental entity,
or within any incorporated municipality. (Ord. 25-423, 6-30-2025)
1-13-2:   PROHIBITED SIGNS:
Flashing signs, illuminated tubing or strings of lights outlining roof or
building lines of structures, roof signs, windblown signs, and suspended signs
are prohibited. (Ord. 25-423, 6-30-2025)
1-13-3:   ILLUMINATION AND MOVEMENT:
Permitted signs may not be illuminated to cast direct light on adjoining
properties or roads. No moving or flashing signs are permitted. (Ord. 25-423,
6-30-2025)
1-13-4:   PENALTY:
Any person or entity erecting, placing, or leaving a sign in violation of this
Section is guilty of an infraction, and shall be assessed a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each violation. It is a separate violation for each sign
in violation of this Section. (Ord. 25-423, 6-30-2025)
1-13-5:   RIGHT TO REMOVAL:
The County shall have the right and authority to remove and destroy any signs
in violation of this section without notice to the candidate or proponent
represented on the sign. (Ord. 25-423, 6-30-2025)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
SECTION:
2-1-1: Licenses Generally
2-1-2: Application
2-1-3: Term
2-1-4: License Categories And Fees
2-1-5: Fees For Unlisted Categories
2-1-6: Denials Or Revocation Of License
2-1-7: Violation And Penalty
2-1-1: LICENSES GENERALLY:
   A.   There is created the Duchesne County Business License Department, which
shall function directly under, and be responsible to, the Duchesne County
Clerk-Auditor's Office.
   B.   The licensing clerk of the License Department shall have the authority
to make an investigation and may call upon other departments of the county to
determine whether or not any applicant for a business license has, in fact,
qualified for the issuance thereof.
   C.   The licensing clerk of the License Department shall have the authority
and may call upon other departments of the county for the purpose of inspecting
business licenses. The licensing clerk and all other authorized inspectors, in
the discharge and performance of their official duties, shall exercise power to
enter free of charge, during business hours, any place of business for which a
license is required by this chapter, and to request the exhibition of a current
license from any such person engaged or employed in the transaction of such
business. If such person then and there fails to exhibit such license, such
person or persons shall be liable to the penalty provided for a violation of
this chapter.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any employee
thereof, to commence, engage in, carry on, or operate any business in Duchesne
County without first obtaining a license from the county to do so. Every
person, partnership, or corporation engaged in, carrying on, or operating any
business. trade, or occupation, including any internet business, in Duchesne
County shall secure, from the licensing department, a license for such business
or profession. A separate license shall be obtained for each separate place of
business maintained within Duchesne County.
   E.   Every such license shall specify by name the person, firm, or
corporation to whom it shall be issued and shall designate the particular place
at which the business shall be carried on, provided that when a license is
issued to a firm or co-partnership, such license in addition to the firm or co-
partnership name, shall specify by name the members of such firm or
partnership.
   F.   It is unlawful for any licensee to sell, transfer or trade any business
license issued under this chapter, and shall not allow any person, firm, or
corporation other than the one therein named or mentioned to do business as
authorized by the business license. If a licensee chooses to relocate his
business to another site in the county, the licensee shall first make an
application with the licensing department to relocate. The licensing department
may call for investigation reports from other county agencies in keeping with
the purpose of this chapter. The clerk, after receiving reports furnished by
the licensing department, may at their discretion, deny or grant the transfer
of the license strictly within the limitations set out in this chapter. The
licensee shall pay a transfer fee equal to one half (½) of a new license fee
for that business as listed in this chapter. If the application is denied, then
the money so deposited shall be refunded.
   G.   All business license applications must be approved for compliance with
land use and building codes by the county building official and zoning
administrator.
   H.   All business license applications must be approved by the Duchesne
county commission before issuance of a license by the licensing clerk.
   I.   No license fee or any part thereof shall be refunded for any reason
whatsoever once the license has been granted or issued by Duchesne County.
   J.   No license or fee shall be required under the terms of this chapter for
the conducting of lectures, entertainment, conceits, fairs, exhibitions,
bazaars, luncheons, dinners or dances conducted, given or made by the citizens
of the county residing therein, conducted or given wholly for benevolent or
charitable purposes.
   K.   Every certificate of license shall be posted by the licensee in a
conspicuous place upon the walls of the building, room, or office of the store,
or place in which such licensed business, trade, or profession is carried on so
that the same may be easily seen. No certificate of license that is not in
force shall be permitted to remain posted after the term of such certificate
has expired.
   L.   The licensing clerk shall, on a regular basis, make an investigation to
discover the status of all businesses or persons who have been issued a
license. When necessary, the county clerk shall inactivate the status of those
businesses or persons no longer doing business within Duchesne County.
   M.   Seasonal businesses shall pay a full license fee if the business is
operated during the entire season (i.e. snow removal, landscaping, etc.).
   N.   A business license may be issued with no fee attached for the sale of
agricultural products that are produced within Duchesne County.
   O.   It is further provided that this chapter does not apply to the
licensure of taverns or beer parlors, which are governed by other ordinances.
(Ord. 08-263, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 21-383, 2-8-2021; Ord. 24-406, 4-8-2024)
2-1-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   All applications for licenses shall be made in writing and submitted to
the licensing clerk upon a prepared form which may be obtained from the
licensing clerk. The amount due for such licenses as herein provided shall be
paid in advance to the licensing clerk.
   B.   Business applications shall show the following information and shall be
submitted to the licensing clerk:
      1.   The name, physical and mailing addresses, and telephone numbers of
the person(s) and partner(s) and/or legal agent(s) desiring the license;
      2.   Other names the business has been known by (if applicable);
      3.   Business owner shall provide one certifiable form of identification
such as a Driver's License or state-issued ID card;
      4.   The type of business organization such as a self-owned, corporation,
limited liability, partnership;
      5.   Description of the business activities to be conducted;
      6.   Physical, mailing, email addresses, and telephone number of the
business;
      7.   Number of full time and/or part-time employees;
      8.   State Sales Tax Number: A business dealing only in services with no
product sales is only required to write "no product sales" in the State Sales
Tax Number section;
      9.   Federal Tax Number: If a Federal Tax Number is not required, the
business owner's Social Security Number must be written in the Federal Tax
Number section;
      10.   Explanation of outdoor storage or activity associated with a
business;
      11.   Is this business activity a new use for this location? lf yes, what
was the previous use;
      12.   If the business is a restaurant, what is the total seating
capacity;
      13.   Is there adequate off-street parking? How many parking spaces;
      14.   The Business Signage Plan;
      15.   Will there be exterior display or storage of goods on the premises;
      16.   The number, type, and size of vehicles to be used in the business;
      17.   Proof of licensure and insurance for the following businesses:
         a.   Day Care - Adult And Child: Proof of application for a state
license must be attached to the application; thereafter, upon receipt of the
state-issued license, a copy of the said license must be submitted to the
business licensing clerk and attached to every business license renewal
thereafter;
         b.   Animal-Related: If applicable, the applicant must attach a copy
of a kennel license as issued by Duchesne County and to every business license
renewal thereafter;
         c.   Food Related: A copy of a current Food Handlers Permit must be
attached to the application and to every business license renewal thereafter;
         d.   Transportation Business: A copy of the current insurance policy
must be attached to the application and to every business license renewal
thereafter;
         e.   Recreational Business: A copy of current liability insurance must
be attached to the application and to every business license renewal
thereafter;
         f.   Contractor License: A copy of the license must be attached to the
business application and to every business license renewal thereafter;
         g.   Other Licenses: A list of other licenses and their number(s)
required by other state and/or federal agencies;
      18.   Any other information required by the licensing clerk may be
necessary for the purpose of fixing the amount of the license fee.
   C.   The business license application shall be accompanied by a completed
Duchesne County Assessor Business Information Form and a Duchesne County
Business License Zone Clearance Form. This form must be completed and returned
to the licensing clerk before a license being issued.
   D.   The licensing clerk shall utilize predetermined fee schedules,
determine license categories and fees.
   E.   Each time the ownership of a business changes, a new application for a
license shall be submitted. This shall be done before the business opening or
operating under the new owner. (Ord. 08-263, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 21-383, 2-8-
2021; Ord. 24-406, 4-8-2024)
2-1-3: TERM:
   A.   No license, unless otherwise provided for, shall be issued for a period
shorter than three (3) months or for a period longer than one year. All annual
licenses shall commence January 1 and shall be effective through the following
December 31. New business licenses issued between January 1 and December 31
shall pay a pro-rated fee based on a quarterly assessment.
   B.   The county clerk, on November 30 of every year, or the next business
day immediately following November 30, shall mail renewal notices to all
businesses or persons holding an active business license. The renewal notice
shall state the renewal fee amount, the date by which the fee must be remitted
to the county clerk, and information regarding penalties for non-renewal. The
renewal notice shall be accompanied by a request for updated information
regarding all particulars of the business or person holding the license.
Updated information must be provided before the renewal of the license.
   C.   The license department shall not issue a business license until all
penalties associated with business licensing and legally assessed against the
applicant have been paid in full.
   D.   Any business commencing operation without a license shall be assessed
the fee as set forth and is subject to all criminal and civil penalties as set
forth herein. (Ord. 08-263, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 21-383, 2-8-2021; Ord. 24-406,
4-8-2024)
2-1-4: LICENSE CATEGORIES AND FEES:
   A.   Fees charged for business licenses and classification of various
classes of businesses shall be set according to the resolution adopted by the
Duchesne county commission. Any changes in classification or fee as applicable
to a currently licensed business shall not be in force until the current
license expires.
   B.   Every person, firm, or corporation before engaging in any business, or
profession hereinafter listed in this section shall obtain a license therefor
and make payment to the county clerk in advance as follows:
      1.   Large Scale Wholesale And Retail Sales: As determined by the
Duchesne County Assessor's Office any person, firm, or corporation dealing
directly or indirectly in any manner in motor vehicles, petroleum, mining
machinery, and equipment and all other types of machinery and equipment, steel
distribution or supply, appliances of any kind, hardware, chemicals, milk,
food, permanent fruit, and vegetable sales, restaurants, fast-food sales,
coffee houses, bakery products, groceries, meat, fish, poultry, dry goods,
clothing, sporting goods, notions, drugs, jewelry, soft drinks, nurseries,
flowers, furniture or any other goods, wares or merchandise of any kind or
description, and any other type of heavy industrial or commercial sales of any
type or description and not otherwise specifically licensed by this chapter for
each place of business operated.
      2.   Small Scale Wholesale And Retail Sales: As determined by the
Duchesne County Assessor's Office any person, firm, or corporation dealing
directly or indirectly in any manner in appliances of any kind, hardware,
chemicals, milk, food, permanent fruit, and vegetable sales, restaurants, fast-
food sales, coffee houses, bakery products, groceries, meat, fish, poultry, dry
goods, clothing, sporting goods, notions, drugs, jewelry, soft drinks,
nurseries, flowers, furniture and or any other goods, wares or merchandise of
any kind or description and not otherwise specifically licensed by this
chapter, for each place of business operated.
      3.   Large Scale Industrial Business: All businesses dealing with the
manufacturing, processing, fabrication of goods, electrical generating plants,
coal loading, and washing and storage facilities, refineries, and other similar
industries.
      4.   Small Scale Industrial Business: All rendering and packing plants,
wrecking and salvage, and other smaller-scale industrial businesses.
      5.   Professional Businesses: All attorneys, auctioneers, insurance
brokers, physicians, dentists, veterinarians, accountants, engineers,
surveyors, morticians, real estate, and all other professions not herein
stated.
      6.   Hospitals And Medical Clinics: All hospitals and medical clinics
offering medical services.
      7.   Recreational Businesses: All billiard halls, bowling alleys, dance
halls and studios, resorts, skating rinks, swimming pools, theatres, amusement
centers, recreation centers, spas, hunting lodges, fishing camps, and all other
recreational businesses not herein stated.
      8.   Rental Storage Business: All rental storage businesses including
warehouses, storage buildings, and cold storage units.
      9.   Motels, Hotels, Short-Term Rentals, Mobile Home Parks, And
Recreational Vehicle Parks: All motels, hotels, short-term rentals (i.e.
airbnb, vrbo, etc.), mobile home parks, and recreational vehicle parks.
      10.   Apartment And Boarding Houses: All apartment houses (three (3)
apartments or more) and office buildings which rent or lease space.
      11.   Equipment Rental: All equipment rental businesses.
      12.   Financial Businesses: All banks, savings and loans, credit unions,
etc., and all other financial businesses not herein stated.
      13.   Service-Related Businesses And Trades: All repair and service
facilities, dry cleaning, delivery, dog kennels, printing, junk collecting,
laundry supply, barbers, beauty parlors, taxis, welding, upholstery.
vulcanizing, garbage collection, and all other services.
      14.   Contractors: All general contractors and contractors for plumbing,
heating, and air conditioning, electrical, carpentry, painting, cement, road
surfacing, grading, and all other contractors not herein stated.
      15.   Trucking Businesses: All trucking businesses related to oil or
water hauling, motor freight, and other trucking not herein listed.
      16.   Mining And Oil And Gas: All mining, oil and gas exploration,
drilling projects, and other mines not herein stated.
      17.   Small Scale Mining Operations: Small scale sand and gravel
operations.
      18.   Home Businesses: All businesses are conducted solely within the
confines of the home of the operator. Home Businesses shall consist of craft
assembly, seamstress and alterations, book-keeping, word processing,
proofreading, scrapbooking, genealogical research, pet grooming, custom cake
decoration, dance instruction, gift baskets, medical transcription, and all
other similar services not herein stated.
      19.   Itinerant Merchant: An itinerant merchant shall be identified as
any person, whether a resident of Duchesne County or not, who engages in a
temporary business activity located within the unincorporated limits of
Duchesne County selling and/or delivering goods, wares. or services, or who
conducts meetings open to the general public where franchises,
distributorships, contracts, or business opportunities, goods, wares or
services are offered to the public during the course of, or any time within,
six (6) months after a lecture or public meeting pertaining to such items. Each
person obtaining a license shall first show proof of landowner permission for
the use of the site on which the temporary use will be undertaken.
   C.   Whenever more than one business, trade, profession, calling, or
occupation is being carried on by one licensee under one roof, the licensee is
required to apply for a business license for each business, trade, profession,
calling, or occupation. Multiple business activities will be defined and
delineated by the entity numbers issued by the Utah Department of Commerce.
   D.   Any person whose only business activity in Duchesne County is the
delivery in the County of a service or merchandise sold or provided by him and
whose regular place of business is maintained by him/her outside of the
unincorporated Duchesne County limits shall procure a business license based
upon the category corresponding to his principal business activity.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of an itinerant
merchant without first having procured a license from the county licensing
department. All itinerant merchant licenses shall expire one hundred twenty
(120) days after the date of issuance thereof.
   F.   Reciprocal Recognition Of Licenses: No license fee shall be required by
Duchesne County for any business whose only business activity in the county is
the mere delivery of a service or merchandise sold or provided by them and
whose regular place of business is located, licensed and maintained within the
cities of Duchesne, Roosevelt, and Myton and the Towns of Altamont and Tabiona
where:
      1.   Such business or person is at the time of such delivery or service
licensed by any of the above-listed cities in which such place of business is
situated; and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of
Duchesne County making delivery within its jurisdiction the same privileges,
upon substantially the same terms as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the facilities nor equipment by which the product was
manufactured, produced, or processed are subject to inspection by any authority
of Duchesne County for compliance with locally adopted health, safety, fire,
and building codes; and
      4.   The person or business providing a service or merchandise within the
county shall provide a copy of the license to the licensing clerk of Duchesne
County, and upon receiving such evidence of licensing, the county shall issue a
Duchesne County business license and waive all license fees.
Notwithstanding any of the above, should a business operate a facility in the
county, as defined herein, whereby business activities are carried on, the
business will be required to pay Duchesne County license fee s. in addition to
any fees required by any city. ("Facility" means stationary buildings or
trailers, pipelines, oil derricks, storage tanks supported directly upon grade,
pump jacks, storage yards, compressor stations, relay towers, transmission
line.) (Ord. 08-263, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 21-383, 2-8-2021; Ord. 24-406, 4-8-
2024)
2-1-5: FEES FOR UNLISTED CATEGORIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any business not hereinbefore
listed without paying the license fee as assessed by the county clerk and board
of commissioners. It shall be the duty of the licensing clerk to determine the
applicable category in which a business falls by comparing the nature of the
business to those listed and determining which category is most appropriate. If
the business is of a nature that cannot be compared to any category, then the
appropriate category and fee shall be established by the licensing clerk. (Ord.
08-263, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 21-383, 2-8-2021; Ord. 24-406, 4-8-2024)
2-1-6: DENIALS OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   In the event the clerk shall deny any application for a business
license, the reason, therefore, shall be endorsed on the application by the
licensing department shall return the fee deposited with a copy of the
application to the applicant together with a notice that the applicant may
appeal the decision and appear before the commission within forty-five (45)
days of the denial or revocation for the purpose of presenting reasons for
setting aside such denial. If the applicant makes such an appearance and
presents adequate justification, the commission may, at its discretion, set
aside the denial and approve the application.
   B.   The county commission, upon finding that any person, firm or
corporation, or any employee that has given false information on the license
application or that the business is being operated in a manner detrimental to
the public good, may revoke that business license after a public hearing on the
revocation. The business license fee shall not be refunded.
   C.   The county commission may, at its discretion and upon notice and a
public hearing, revoke or suspend any license granted under the provisions of
this chapter to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the present
and future inhabitants of the county. The commission may also suspend any
license granted under the provisions of this chapter upon finding after a
written complaint has been filed, and a proper hearing held that the licensee
had made a false material statement(s) of fact in applying for a business
license, or the licensee is involved or does participate or allows to take
place undesirable business practices, or the licensee has allowed the licensed
business and/or physical property on which it is located or in which it is
housed to be operated and maintained in such a manner that it is deemed to be a
public nuisance and as such an endangerment of the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the County, or that is determined that the licensee
has exceeded what is allowed in the zone, or violated any conditions attached
to the operation of such business.
   D.   Upon receiving a written complaint of violation against a licensee, the
licensing department shall make or cause to have made a thorough investigation
of the facts stated in the complaint and shall at the same time notify the
county commissioners of the complaint. The county commissioners shall set a
date and time for a hearing on the matter within thirty (30) days of the
initial receipt of the complaint by the licensing department and shall notify
the licensee of the complaint and the date set for the hearing.
   E.   The Duchesne county commission may, at the end of the hearing: (1) take
no action against the licensee; or (2) suspend the license of the licensee for
a set period of time; or (3) revoke the license; or (4) continue the matter to
conduct further investigations of the allegations in the complaint or allow the
licensee to present a further argument in his/her defense, but in no case shall
the commission fail to take appropriate action within sixty (60) days of the
date the complaint was first received by the licensing department. (Ord. 08-
263, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 21-383, 2-8-2021; Ord. 24-406, 4-8-2024)
2-1-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Annual license renewals not paid by February 15 shall be subject to a
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus the license fee. Any license
renewal not made before March 15 shall be subject to an additional penalty of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) plus the license fee. Any license renewal
(including penalties) not made after March 15 may be collected by civil action
in any court of this state having jurisdiction or subject to criminal action
set forth below.
   B.   Any person, firm, or corporation who has commenced or carried on any
business, trade, or occupation specified in this chapter before obtaining a
business license shall be assessed a double license fee, which double
assessment shall be paid before a license shall be issued.
   C.   The licensing clerk shall have the authority to call upon other
departments of the county to examine all places of business or persons required
to obtain or maintain business licenses.
   D.   The licensing clerk shall monitor business activity within the county
by locating existing or new businesses or persons that have either not applied
for a new license or renewed an existing license. The clerk shall then, in
writing, notify said businesses or persons of business license requirements and
penalties. The clerk shall make reasonable attempts to encourage compliance.
   E.   At least once a year, the licensing clerk shall report to the county
attorney all businesses or persons that have failed to obtain or renew business
licenses. It shall be the duty of the county attorney to cause complaints to be
filed against all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Any person who operates a business in violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be punished by
a fine not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or imprisonment not
exceeding ninety (90) days, or both. Each week that person shall violate or
continue to violate this chapter after written notice of such violation by the
county or its officers or agents, shall be considered to be a separate
violation and shall be punished as such. (Ord. 08-263, 4-14-2008; amd. Ord. 21-
383, 2-8-2021; Ord. 24-406, 4-8-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: License Required; Display
2-2-3: Classifications Of Licenses
2-2-4: Application For License
2-2-5: Investigations, Referrals
2-2-6: Fee For License
2-2-7: Term Of License
2-2-8: Operational Restrictions
2-2-9: Renewal Of License
2-2-10: Transfer To New Location
2-2-11: New License Required Upon Business Purchased; Fees
2-2-12: Suspension Or Revocation
2-2-13: Penalty
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following meanings,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Means and includes "beer" and "liquor", as defined in this
section.
BEER: Any beverage containing not less than one-half of one percent of any
malted grain, or similar products, and which contains not more than three and
two-tenths percent of alcohol by weight, and may or may not contain hops or
other vegetable products, and includes ale, stout or porter.
CABARET: Any room, house, building or structure or place occupied by any person
having a class B or C beer license, wherein a dance floor is provided for
patrons or entertainers to dance.
LICENSED PREMISES: Any room, house, building, structure or place occupied by
any person licensed to sell beer or to allow the consumption of liquor on such
premises under this chapter; provided, that in any multiroomed establishment,
an applicant for a liquor consumption license or for a class B, class C or club
beer license shall designate a room or portion of a building of such business
for consumption of liquor or the sale of beer, which portion so specifically
designated in the application and in the license issued pursuant thereto shall
be the licensed premises. Multiple dining facilities located in one building
and owned or leased by one licensed applicant shall be deemed to be only one
licensed premises.
LICENSEE: Any person holding any beer, liquor or private club license in
connection with the operation of a place of business or private club. This term
shall also include any employee of the licensee.
LIQUOR: Means and includes alcohol, or any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous,
fermented, malt or other liquid or combination of liquids, containing more than
one-half of one percent of alcohol by weight; and all mixtures, compounds or
preparations, whether liquid or not, which contain more than one-half of one
percent of alcohol by weight, and which are capable of human consumption;
except that the term "liquor" shall not include "beer", as defined in this
section.
LOUNGE: Any room, house, building or structure or place occupied by any person
having a class B or C beer license where no dance floor is provided for patrons
to dance.
NUISANCE: Any room, building, structure or place which is licensed under the
provisions of this chapter, where:
   A.   Alcoholic beverages are manufactured, sold, kept, bartered, stored,
given away or used or where persons resort to drinking of alcoholic beverages
contrary to the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah or this chapter; or
where
   B.   Intoxicated persons are permitted to loiter about, or profane,
indecent, immoral, loud, or boisterous language, or immoral or lewd conduct is
permitted or carried on; or where
   C.   Beer is sold, dispensed, or consumed between the hours of one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. any weekday; or where
   D.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) are permitted to purchase
beer; or where
   E.   Applicable laws or ordinances governing licensee's business operation
are violated by the licensee or his or her agents or patrons with the consent
or knowledge of the licensee.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: As used in connection with the issuance of a liquor
consumption license, means and includes cafes, restaurants, public dining
rooms, cafeterias, taverns, cabarets and any other place where the general
public is invited or admitted for business purposes, and shall also be deemed
to include private clubs, corporations and associations operating under charter
or otherwise wherein only the members and their guests are invited. Occupied
hotel and motel rooms that are not open to the public shall not be deemed to be
"places of business", as herein defined.
RESTAURANT: As used in connection with the issuance of a class B retail license
means premises where a variety of hot food is served for consumption on the
premises and where no more than forty percent (40%) of the gross volume of
business is derived from the sale of beer sold at said premises.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer.
SELL OR TO SELL: When used in this chapter in any provision shall be construed
to mean solicit, or to receive any order for, to keep or expose for sale, to
deliver for value or gratuitously, to peddle, to possess with intent to sell,
to traffic in for any consideration promised or obtained directly or indirectly
or under any pretext or by any means whatsoever to procure or allow to be
procured for any other person, and "sale", when so used, shall include every
act of selling as above defined.
WHOLESALER: Any person other than a brewer or retailer engaged in importation
for sale of beer in wholesaler or jobbing quantities. (1998 Code § 5.08.010)
2-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; DISPLAY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of the sale of
beer at retail within the county without first procuring a license therefor, as
hereinafter provided. A separate license shall be required for each place of
sale. The license shall identify the specific premises covered thereby and
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall
refer or for which it shall be issued. All licensees shall comply with the
provisions of the alcoholic beverage control act of the state and the
regulations of the alcoholic beverage control commission and this chapter, and
every license shall recite that it is granted subject to revocation as provided
in this chapter.
   B.   Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be displayed at all
times on the licensed premises in a place readily visible to the public. (1998
Code § 5.08.020)
2-2-3: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
   A.   Specified; Numbering:
      1.   Retail licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
classified into the following types, which shall carry the privileges and
responsibilities hereinafter set forth in this chapter:
         a.   Class A;
         b.   Class B;
         c.   Class C;
         d.   Class D;
         e.   Seasonal;
         f.   Club.
      2.   All licenses of each class shall be numbered numerically commencing
with 1.
   B.   Privileges:
      1.   Class A License: A class A retail license shall entitle the licensee
to sell beer on the premises described therein, in original containers for
consumption off the premises in accordance with the alcohol beverage control
act of the state and the ordinances of the county.
      2.   Class B License: A class B retail license shall entitle the licensee
to sell beer on the premises described therein in original containers for
consumption on the licensed premises and to all of the privileges granted to a
holder of a class A retail license. Only bona fide restaurants shall be
entitled to class B licenses. If any audit or inspection discloses that the
sales of beer on the licensed premises are in excess of forty percent (40%) of
the gross dollar volume of business, the class B license shall immediately be
suspended and shall not be reinstated until the licensee is able to prove to
the satisfaction of the board of commissioners that in the future the sales of
beer on the licensed premises will not exceed forty percent (40%) of the gross
dollar volume of business. No person under the age of twenty one (21) years
shall sell or serve beer under this license.
      3.   Class C License: A class C license shall be required for all
premises where the primary or main business is that of selling beer for
consumption on or off the licensed premises and shall entitle the holder
thereof to all the privileges granted the holders of a class A and class B
retail license, in accordance with the alcohol beverage control act of the
state. No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall sell or serve beer
under this license.
      4.   Class D License: A class D retail license shall entitle the licensee
to sell beer for consumption on publicly owned recreation facilities. The
licensee shall be the holder of a concession contract from the public body
owning the recreation area involved. Under this license, no beer shall be sold
in the original containers, but must first be emptied into suitable temporary
containers. No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may sell or serve
beer under this license. All sales and deliveries under this license shall be
made directly to the ultimate consumer.
      5.   Seasonal License: A seasonal license shall carry the privileges of a
class C retail license and shall be for a period of less than one year to be
determined by the board of county commissioners. No person under the age of
twenty one (21) years shall sell or serve beer under this license. (1998 Code §
5.08.020)
      6.   Club License: A club license shall carry the privileges of a class C
retail license; provided, that the sale of beer shall be to club members and
guests only, and each license shall be issued to bona fide clubs which are
incorporated, bonded, regulated and operated in compliance with the provisions
of Utah Code Annotated title 16, chapter 6a, as amended. (1998 Code § 5.08.020;
amd. 2010 Code)
2-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for licenses for renewal, or for the issuance of licenses, or
for transfer of licenses authorized by this chapter, shall be verified and
filed with the county clerk/auditor, addressed to the board of county
commissioners, and shall state the applicant's name in full and indicate that
he or she has complied with the requirements of processes and possesses the
qualifications specified in the alcohol beverage control act of the state. If
the applicant is a copartnership, the names and addresses of the partners, or
if a corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors must be
stated. The application must be subscribed by the applicant who shall state
under oath that the facts therein contained are true. (1998 Code § 5.08.020)
2-2-5: INVESTIGATIONS, REFERRALS:
   A.   Sheriff: All applications filed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter shall be referred to the sheriff for inspection and report. The
sheriff shall, within ten (10) days after receiving such application, make
report to the board of county commissioners of the general reputation and
character of the persons who habitually frequent such place; the nature and
kind of business conducted at such place by the applicant, or by any other
person, or by the applicant at any other place; whether said place is or has
been conducted in a lawful, quiet and orderly manner; the nature and kind of
entertainment, if any, at such place; whether gambling is or has been permitted
on the premises or by the applicant at any other place; and the proximity of
such premises to any school or church. The sheriff shall also add to such
report his or her recommendation as to whether or not the application should be
granted.
   B.   Health Department: All applications filed in accordance with this
chapter shall be referred to the health department, which shall inspect all
premises to be licensed to assure sanitary compliance with the laws of the
state, the ordinances of the county, and the rules and regulations in the
preparation, storage, distribution or sale of beer and food fulfills all such
sanitary requirements. The health department shall issue a permit to the
licensee, a copy of which shall be attached to the application for license.
(1998 Code § 5.08.020)
2-2-6: FEE FOR LICENSE:
Applications for retail licenses under this chapter shall be accompanied by the
following nonrefundable fees, which are in addition to the general business
license fees required under the licensing ordinance of the county:
   A.   Class A: For class A retail license, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
annum, or any part thereof.
   B.   Class B: For class B retail license, one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) per annum, or any part thereof.
   C.   Class C: For class C retail license, two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
annum, or any part thereof.
   D.   Class D: For class D retail license, two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
annum, or any part thereof.
   E.   Lounges And Cabarets: It is unlawful for any person to operate a lounge
or cabaret without first acquiring a license. The annual license fee for a
lounge shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) in addition to the general license fee
required under the license ordinance of the county. The annual license fee for
a cabaret shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) in addition to the general
business license fee required under the license ordinance of the county. (1998
Code § 5.08.020)
2-2-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
All class A, B, C or D retail licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall expire on December 31 each year, and shall be issued for one
year, except seasonal licenses, which shall be issued for a period of less than
one year, as may be determined by the board of county commissioners. (1998 Code
§ 5.08.020)
2-2-8: OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Unlawful Selling Or Consumption Without License: It is unlawful for any
person to sell beer or to permit the consumption of beer on any premises unless
such premises is licensed for such sale or consumption. It is unlawful for any
licensee to violate the terms of his or her license, and it is unlawful for any
person, unless he or she shall be licensed, to sell beer for consumption on the
premises or to permit any beer to be consumed on the premises.
   B.   Sales To Intoxicated Persons Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
to sell beer to any intoxicated person or to a person under the influence of
any intoxicating beverage.
   C.   Advertising Sale: It is unlawful to advertise the sale of beer, except
under such regulations as are made by the alcohol beverage control division of
the state.
   D.   Nuisance Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain
a "nuisance", as the same is defined in section
2-2-1 of this chapter.
   E.   Wholesaler And Retailer Not To Have Common Interests: It is unlawful
for any dealer, brewer or wholesaler to, either directly or indirectly, supply,
give or pay for any furniture, furnishing or fixtures of a retailer, and it is
unlawful for any dealer or brewer to advance funds, money or pay for any
license of a retailer, or to be financially interested, either directly or
indirectly, in the conduct or operation of the business of any retailer.
   F.   Minimum Light And Open View Required In Licensed Premises: It is
unlawful for any person to own, operate or manage any premises licensed for the
sale of beer without complying with the following lighting and view
requirements:
      1.   During the business hours, a minimum of one candlepower light
measured at a level five feet (5') above the floor shall be maintained.
      2.   No enclosed booths, blinds or stalls shall be erected or maintained.
      3.   A clear, unobstructed view of all portions of the interior shall be
available at all times from a point within the licensed premises at or near the
main public entrance.
   G.   Sales To Minors Prohibited: It is unlawful to sell beer to any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   H.   Presence Of Minors In Certain Establishments Prohibited: It is unlawful
for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to enter or be in or
about any premises licensed as a class C establishment, for the sale of beer,
or to drink beer or any intoxicating liquor in such licensed premises.
   I.   Unlawful To Permit Minors In Certain Establishments: It is unlawful for
any licensee of a class C establishment for the sale of beer, or any operator,
agent or employee of such licensee, to permit any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to remain in or about such licensed premises. The
licensee shall require every patron to present a valid driver's license or
other form of identification containing a picture of the patron, his or her
date of birth, height, weight and color of hair and eyes, before entering the
licensed premises. If the licensee questions the validity of any identification
presented, the licensee shall retain the identification at the door, available
for inspection by the sheriff, and return the same to patron when he or she
leaves the licensed premises.
   J.   Presence Of Minors In Portions Of Certain Establishments Prohibited: It
is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to be in or
around any lounge or bar area in a premises licensed with a club or seasonal
license for the sale of beer, or in or around any lounge or bar area in a
premises licensed with a liquor consumption license.
   K.   Unlawful To Permit Minor In Portion Of Certain Establishments: It is
unlawful for any licensee of a club or seasonal license for the sale of beer or
holder of a liquor consumption license, or any operator, agent or employee of
such licensee, to permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
remain in or about the lounge or bar area without presenting a valid driver's
license or other form of identification containing a picture of the patron, his
or her date of birth, height, weight and color of hair and eyes, before
permitting him or her to remain in or about the lounge or bar area. If the
licensee questions the validity of any identification presented, the licensee
shall retain the identification at the bar, available for inspection by the
sheriff, and return the same to the patron when he or she leaves the lounge or
bar area.
   L.   Possession Of Beer By Minor Prohibited; Exception: It is unlawful for
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to purchase, accept, or have
in his or her possession, any alcoholic beverage, including beer or
intoxicating liquor; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to
the acceptance of alcoholic beverages by such person for medicinal purposes
supplied only by the parent or guardian of such person, or to the administering
of such alcoholic beverage by a physician in accordance with the law; provided
further, that the provisions of this subsection prohibiting possession of beer
shall not apply to persons under twenty one (21) years of age who are bona fide
employees in class A licensed premises while in the discharge of their
employment therein or thereabouts.
   M.   Unlawful To Permit Intoxicated Persons On Licensed Premises: It is
unlawful for any person licensed to sell beer or for any of his or her agents
or employees to allow intoxicated persons to remain in or about any licensed
premises.
   N.   Sale Or Disposition Of Beer Between Certain Hours Unlawful: It is
unlawful for any licensee, operator or employee thereof to sell, dispose of,
give away or deliver any beer, or to permit the consumption thereof on the
licensed premises, between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. of any day. (1998 Code § 5.08.030)
2-2-9: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of existing licenses
shall be filed with the license director at least thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration date of the then issued license. Any person who fails to file such
application within the time limit shall close his or her licensed premises on
the expiration date of the then issued license, and shall keep the premises
closed for any and all business for the sale of beer until the date his or her
new license is issued by order of the board of commissioners. (1998 Code §
5.08.020)
2-2-10: TRANSFER TO NEW LOCATION:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be transferred to a new proper
location, upon application to the board of county commissioners, filed with the
license director and upon the payment of a twenty five dollar ($25.00) transfer
fee, which shall be refunded if the application is denied. (1998 Code §
5.08.020)
2-2-11: NEW LICENSE REQUIRED UPON BUSINESS PURCHASED; FEES:
If any licensee sells his or her place of business, the purchaser thereof may
be granted a license to operate the same business; providing, that he or she
has complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified
by the board of county commissioners. Any prospective purchasers of a business
licensed pursuant to this chapter may petition the county commission for a
determination of his or her fitness and eligibility to be granted a license as
herein provided; and when such a determination is favorable therefor and
submitting proper proof of his or her purchase of said business to the board of
county commissioners within sixty (60) days after filing his or her original
petition, except that no such license shall be issued to any applicant whose
eligibility therefor shall have been terminated by the discovery of grounds for
his or her disqualification subsequent to this original petition. The current
license fee to be paid by such purchaser shall be payable in advance in the
following amounts:
   A.   All of the required annual license if such license is issued on or
before March 31 of the license year herein set forth.
   B.   Three-fourths (3/4) of the required annual license if such license is
issued after March 31 and on or before June 30.
   C.   One-half (1/2) of the required annual license if such license is issued
after June 30 and on or before September 30.
   D.   One-fourth (1/4) of the required annual license if such license is
issued after September 30 and on or before December 31. (1998 Code § 5.08.020)
2-2-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Authority: Licenses may be suspended or revoked by the board of
commissioners for violation on the licensed premises of any provision of this
chapter, or of any other applicable ordinance or law relating to alcoholic
beverages, or if the person to whom the license was issued no longer possess
the qualifications required by this title and statutes of the state.
   B.   Notice; Hearing; Procedure: At any time that the board of commissioners
shall have cause to believe that grounds for suspension or revocation exist,
notice shall be given to the licensee of a hearing to be held regarding any
possibility of suspension or revocation. The hearing shall be heard no less
than ten (10) days from the date the licensee is notified. The licensee shall
be advised in said notice of the alleged reasons for suspension or revocation.
If the allegations are proven at the hearing, the license may be revoked or may
be suspended for a period of up to one year. If during the period of suspension
further violations are alleged, an additional hearing may be heard as set forth
above and upon establishment of cause, the license may be revoked.
   C.   Allegations Involving Minors: In addition to the revocation or
suspension penalties set forth above, the board of commissioners may, if the
alleged violation involves minors, on the first violation require the licensee
to pay double the amount of the license fees for reinstatement of the license.
On the second violation, the fee shall be double the amount required following
the first violation. On the third violation, the amount of the fee shall be
double the amount required following the second violation.
   D.   Sales Prohibited During Suspension Or After Revocation: It is unlawful
for any person to sell beer at the licensed premises during the period of
suspension or after the revocation of his or her beer license. (1998 Code §
5.08.020)
2-2-13: PENALTY:
It is a misdemeanor to violate any of the provisions of this chapter. (1998
Code § 5.08.040)
ARTICLE A. BEER KEG SALES AND USE
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Definitions
2-2A-2: Sale Or Possession Of Kegs
2-2A-3: Penalty
2-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
BEER: Any beverage containing not less than one-half of one percent of alcohol
by weight and obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of any malted grain or similar products. "Heavy beer" means beer
containing more than three and one-fifth percent of alcohol by weight. "Light
beer" means beer containing no more than three and one-fifth percent of alcohol
by weight. Beer may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products. "Beer"
includes ale, stout and porter.
KEG: A bulk container for the storage and transportation of beer, which shall
contain in excess of four (4) gallons of beer.
PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation,
association, or any group or combination, and the plural as well as the
singular number, unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context.
SELL OR TO SELL: When used in this article, in any prohibition shall be
construed to include: to solicit or receive an order for; to keep or expose for
sale; to deliver for value; to peddle; to possess with intent to sell; to
traffic in; for any consideration, promised or obtained, directly or indirectly
or under any pretext or by any means whatsoever, to procure or allow to be
procured for any other person; and "sale" when so used, shall include every act
of selling as above defined. (1998 Code § 5.12.010) 
2-2A-2: SALE OR POSSESSION OF KEGS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It is unlawful for any person to sell or dispose
of any beer contained in a keg in the unincorporated limits of the county, or
to purchase, consume or possess, either solely or jointly with another, any
beer in a keg in the unincorporated areas of the county, except upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Permit Required: The sale, purchase, possession or use of any keg of
beer shall be unlawful, unless the person purchasing, possessing, or using beer
from a keg shall have a permit issued by the county sheriff, and the retail
sale of any keg of beer to be used or consumed in the unincorporated areas of
the county shall only be upon the presentation by the purchaser of a permit
issued by the county sheriff. Such permit shall contain the name and address of
the purchaser and a recitation of the anticipated time and place of and the
approximate number of persons participating in the consumption of the beer. The
permit shall be prepared in three (3) parts. The sheriff's department shall
retain the third copy and deliver the other two (2) copies to the applicant,
together with a stamped envelope addressed to the sheriff's department. The
seller of the keg shall affix the serial number of the keg to the second copy
and return it to the sheriff's department in the envelope provided.
   C.   Responsible Person: The person in whose name the beer keg permit is
issued, shall be legally responsible to ensure that the regulations regarding
possession or the consumption of beer by minors and regarding hours which
consumption is prohibited are followed.
   D.   Vendor Requirements: Every vendor who sells beer kegs under this
article shall require the purchaser to display his or her permit, shall record
such sale and permit number, and shall promptly notify the sheriff of such
sale. (1998 Code § 5.12.020)
2-2A-3: PENALTY:
Violation of this article shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or
both. (1998 Code § 5.12.020)
CHAPTER 3
TAXATION
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-3A-1: Title
2-3A-2: Authority; Purpose
2-3A-3: Sales And Use Tax
2-3A-4: State Statute Provisions Applicable
2-3A-5: Penalty
2-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF
DUCHESNE. (1998 Code § 3.04.010)
2-3A-2: AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
   A.   The forty eighth session of the Utah legislature has authorized the
counties and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances
imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales and use tax of
the county to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (1998 Code § 3.04.020)
2-3A-3: SALES AND USE TAX:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the county at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
this county of tangible personal property from any retailer on or after the
operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price of the
property.
   B.   Retail Sales: For the purpose of this article all retail sales shall be
presumed to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the
retailer or his or her agent to an out of state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out of state destination. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and regulations
prescribed by and adopted by the state tax commission. "Public utilities", as
defined by Utah Code Annotated title 54, shall not be obligated to determine
the place or places within any county or municipality where public utilities
services are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising
from such service allocable to the county shall be as determined by the state
tax commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it. (1998 Code § 3.04.030)
2-3A-4: STATE STATUTE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are adopted and made
a part of this article as though fully set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this county shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the county for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of
the county be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the county,
or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
   C.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
   D.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
      1.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer;
      2.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any municipality and any
other county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (1998 Code
§ 3.04.030)
2-3A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a
fine in an amount less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment for
a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (1998 Code § 3.04.040)
ARTICLE B. OPTIONAL SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-3B-1: Title
2-3B-2: Statutory Authority
2-3B-3: Purpose Of Provisions
2-3B-4: Imposition Of Tax
2-3B-5: Incorporation Of State Law
2-3B-6: Administration, Collection And Distribution By State
2-3B-7: Exemptions
2-3B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the OPTIONAL COUNTY SALES AND USE TAX. (1998
Code § 3.04.050)
2-3B-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code Annotated title
59, chapter 12, part 9, as amended. (1998 Code § 3.04.060)
2-3B-3: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
This article is enacted to provide the county with a source of revenue to allow
the county to more effectively carry out its role as a political and legal
subdivision of the state. The board of county commissioners directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish the stated
purpose. (1998 Code § 3.04.070)
2-3B-4: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
In addition to all other taxes imposed, the county does impose and levy for
collection a sales and use tax of one-fourth of one percent upon the sales and
use described in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-103(1), subject to the
exemptions provided for in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-104. This tax is
imposed upon all sales and uses made in the county, including sales and uses
made within the corporate limits of the cities and towns of the county.
Provisions of this article shall be subject to the provisions of the sales and
use tax laws of the state to which reference is hereinafter made in this
article and which are enacted and made a part of this article as fully set
forth herein. (1998 Code § 3.04.080)
2-3B-5: INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the county option sales and use tax act,
all the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to the
tax imposed by this article, except Utah Code Annotated sections 59-12-101 and
59-12-119 thereof, are adopted and made part of this article as though fully
set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, as amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this county shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this
subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the county
for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission or the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of
the county be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the county
or any agency thereof rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article. (1998 Code § 3.04.090)
2-3B-6: ADMINISTRATION, COLLECTION AND DISTRIBUTION BY STATE:
   A.   Taxes imposed pursuant to this article shall be levied at the same time
and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-201 et seq., as amended, except that the revenue derived from the tax is
not subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant
to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-205(2), as amended.
Revenues collected pursuant to this article shall be distributed in accordance
with Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-902(3), and the rules adopted by the
state tax commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-902(3)(d).
All revenues so collected shall be revenues of either Duchesne County or of any
other county entitled to distribution of the same pursuant to the statute.
   B.   Any records, tax returns or other information of any person,
corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes
imposed by this article which relate to the calculation, collection or
remittance to the state tax commission of such taxes, shall be subject to
review, inspection and auditing by the county.
   C.   The fee charged the county by the state tax commission under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-206, as amended, shall be based on the distribution
amount resulting after all the applicable distribution calculations under Utah
Code Annotated section 59-12-902(3) have been made. (1998 Code § 3.04.100)
2-3B-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property
which is exempt from sales or use taxation pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-104 is exempt from the application of the optional county sales
and use tax. (1998 Code § 3.04.110)
ARTICLE C. TOURISM, RECREATION, CULTURAL AND CONVENTION TAX
SECTION:
2-3C-1: Purpose
2-3C-2: Definitions
2-3C-3: Tax Imposed
2-3C-4: Incorporation Of State Law
2-3C-5: Amendments
2-3C-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The board of county commissioners finds and declares that:
      1.   The development of tourism, recreation, cultural and convention
facilities throughout the county is necessary to ensure continued growth in the
tourism, recreation and convention industry in the county;
      2.   Modern and state of the art tourism, recreation, cultural and
convention facilities would attract tourists, recreation and convention
business in a substantially greater amount than facilities that are obsolete or
do not otherwise fill the needs of such business;
      3.   Available sources of assistance and capital in the county are
inadequate by themselves without state assistance to assure necessary
development of tourism, recreation, cultural and convention facilities;
      4.   Other counties have programs of aid to their political subdivisions
to foster the development of tourism, recreation, cultural and convention
facilities; and
      5.   Fostering the development of tourism, recreation, cultural and
convention facilities is a county purpose affecting the welfare of all county
citizens and the growth of the economy countywide.
   B.   It is therefore the purpose of this article that the county provide a
means to foster the development of tourism, recreation, cultural and convention
facilities in order to further the welfare of the citizens of the county and
its economic growth. (Ord. 08-268, 9-8-2008)
2-3C-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CONVENTION FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated convention center, sports
arena, or other facility at which conventions, conferences and other gatherings
are held and whose primary business or function is to host such conventions,
conferences and other gatherings.
CULTURAL FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated museum, theater, art center,
music hall, or other cultural or arts facility.
RECREATION FACILITY OR TOURIST FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated park,
campground, marina, dock, golf course, water park, historic park, monument,
planetarium, zoo, bicycle trails, and other recreation or tourism related
facility.
RESTAURANT: A. Includes any coffee shop, cafeteria, luncheonette, soda
fountain, or fast food service where food is prepared for immediate
consumption.
   B.   "Restaurant" does not include:
      1.   Any retail establishment whose primary business or function is the
sale of fuel or food items for off premises, but not immediate, consumption;
and
      2.   A theater that sells food items, but not a dinner theater. (Ord. 08-
268, 9-8-2008)
2-3C-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Amount: The board of county commissioners hereby imposes a tax as
follows:
      1.   Three percent (3%) on all short term leases and rentals of motor
vehicles not exceeding thirty (30) days, except such leases and rentals of
motor vehicles when made for the purpose of temporarily replacing a person's
motor vehicle that is being repaired pursuant to a repair or an insurance
agreement;
      2.   One percent (1%) of all of the following that are sold by a
restaurant:
         a.   Prepared foods; or
         b.   Food and food ingredients.
   B.   Use Of Revenue: The revenue from the imposition of the tax provided for
in subsection A of this section shall be for the purposes of financing,
operation and maintenance of tourist, recreation, cultural and convention
facilities, as defined in section
2-3C-2 of this article.
   C.   Levy; Collection:
      1.   The tax imposed shall be levied at the same time and collected in
the same manner as provided in the local sales and use tax act, Utah Code
Annotated 59-12-201 et seq., except that the collection and distribution of the
tax revenue is not subject to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-
12-205(2).
      2.   The tax imposed under this article may be pledged as security for
bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness incurred by a county under Utah
Code Annotated title 11, chapter 14, the local government bonding act, to
finance tourism, recreation, cultural and convention facilities. (Ord. 08-268,
9-8-2008)
2-3C-4: INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the tourism, recreation, cultural and
convention facilities tax act, all the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title
59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, insofar as they relate to the tax imposed
by this article, except Utah Code Annotated sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119
thereof, are adopted and made part of this article as though fully set forth
herein.
   B.   Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as
the taxing agency, the name of this county shall be substituted therefor.
Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name
of the county for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title
of the state tax commission or the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall
the name of the county be substituted for that of the state in any section when
the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
the county or any agency thereof rather than by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article. (Ord. 08-268, 9-8-2008)
2-3C-5: AMENDMENTS:
This article can and shall be amended to conform to any amendments to the tax
collection of Utah Code Annotated 59-12-101 et seq., as is required by Utah
Code Annotated section 59-12-603(6). (Ord. 08-268, 9-8-2008)
ARTICLE D. TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
2-3D-1: Title
2-3D-2: Purpose Of Provisions
2-3D-3: Statutes Adopted By Reference
2-3D-4: Transient Defined
2-3D-5: Tax Imposed
2-3D-6: Exclusions
2-3D-7: Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund
2-3D-8: Contributions And Donations Permitted
2-3D-9: Audits
2-3D-10: Remittance Of Tax
2-3D-11: Penalties And Interest
2-3D-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the TRANSIENT ROOM TAX ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY
OF DUCHESNE. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-2: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
The board of county commissioners declares that this article is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish these purposes:
   A.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter
31, and section 59-12-301 et seq., as amended;
   B.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31, and section 59-
12-301 et seq., as amended;
   C.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that imposes a tax not to
exceed three percent (3%);
   D.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will provide funds for the purposes of establishing, financing and
promoting tourism, recreation and convention bureaus and such other purposes as
have been authorized by law for the expenditure of transient room taxes and for
that purpose create, at the discretion of the county, a reserve fund comprised
of any funds collected but not expended during any financial year. (Ord. 11-
290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-3: STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
All applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31, and
section 59-12-301 et seq., as amended, are hereby incorporated herein and made
a part of this article by this reference thereto. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-4: TRANSIENT DEFINED:
For the purpose of this article, the term "transient" means and is defined as
any individual who occupies any suite, room or rooms in a motel, motor court,
inn or similar public accommodation for fewer than thirty (30) consecutive
days. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-5: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby levied on all persons, companies, corporations, or
other like and similar persons, groups or organizations doing business in the
county as motor courts, motels, inns, or like and similar public accommodations
a transient room tax at the rate of three percent (3%) of the rent for every
occupancy of a suite, room or rooms by a transient.
   B.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31,
and section 59-12-301 et seq., as amended from time to time, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-101 et seq., as amended, known
as the sales and use tax act, and all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-201 et seq., as amended, known as the local sales and use tax law
of Utah, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set
forth herein to the extent the said provisions are relevant and pertinent to
the administration by the county.
   C.   Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
101 et seq., the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of the county shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this
subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the county
for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah.
   D.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section, but a copy of such license shall be provided to the
county within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof.
   E.   The tax shall be collected and disbursed pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-6: EXCLUSIONS:
There shall be excluded from the rent paid or charged by which the tax is
measured:
   A.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by any other
governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer;
   B.   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food or beverage or
room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room or
rooms. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-7: CONVENTION BUREAU SPECIAL RESERVE FUND:
For the purposes authorized by this article, there is created a reserve fund to
be known as the "convention bureau special reserve fund", which shall be
maintained separate and apart from general and other special funds of the
county, and in which shall be deposited any and all funds collected by virtue
of the tax imposed hereby but not expended during the fiscal year. (Ord. 11-
290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-8: CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONATIONS PERMITTED:
The county executive is authorized to accept, on behalf of the county, funds
contributed, donated or supplied by any person, corporation, other governmental
agency, or from any other source whatever for the purposes outlined in section
2-3D-2 of this article and, when such funds are received, they shall be
deposited and used in the same manner as though they were derived from the tax
imposed hereby. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-9: AUDITS:
Any records or other information of any person, corporation, company, or other
group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this article which relate
to occupancy revenues or to the calculation and remittance to the county of
said taxes may be subject to review and inspection by the state. Audits of such
records and information, or the supporting records therefor, shall be the
responsibility of the state tax commission. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-10: REMITTANCE OF TAX:
The tax shall be remitted as directed by the state on forms provided or
approved by the state at such times and with such frequency as are provided for
by state law. All returns filed pursuant hereto shall accurately identify the
locations where the transactions occurred and the gross sales upon which the
tax for each location is computed. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
2-3D-11: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
Any person who fails to file any tax return or information required by this
article, who fails to pay any tax due hereunder, or who fails to timely pay
such tax, shall be subject to the imposition of penalties and interest by the
state in accordance with Utah law. (Ord. 11-290, 8-1-2011)
TITLE 3
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Real Property Kept Clean
3-1-3: Examination And Investigation
3-1-4: Nuisances Specified
3-1-5: Buildings Damaged By Fire, Flood And Other Causes
3-1-6: Notice Of Violation; Appeal
3-1-7: Failure To Comply; Action By County
3-1-8: Summary Abatement
3-1-9: Costs Of Removal To Landowner; Objections
3-1-10: Alternate Methods Of Compelling Payment
3-1-11: Collection
3-1-12: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein, unless their use in the text of this chapter clearly
demonstrates a different meaning:
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR: The community development administrator of
Duchesne County, Utah, as appointed by the county commission, or an authorized
agent.
CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
property, or conduct that occurs on a property.
COUNTY COMMISSION: The board of commissioners of Duchesne County, Utah.
PERSON: Any natural person, agent, association, partnership, corporation or
other entity capable of owning, occupying or using property in Duchesne County.
PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY: An agent, occupant, lessee, sublessee, contract
purchaser, or other person having possession or control of property, or
supervision of a construction project or property. Under a rental or lease
arrangement, the person in charge is the person actually in control of the
property or part thereof.
PERSON RESPONSIBLE: The person responsible for abating a nuisance includes:
   A.   The owner.
   B.   The "person in charge of property", as defined in this section.
   C.   The person who caused a "nuisance", as defined in this chapter or
another ordinance of the county, to come into or continue in existence.
PROPERTY: Any property, including land and that which is affixed, incidental or
appurtenant to land, including, but not limited to, any business or residence,
parking area, loading area, landscaping, building or structure or any separate
part, unit or portion thereof, or any business equipment, whether or not
permanent. For property consisting of more than one unit, property may be
limited to the unit or the portion of the property on which any nuisance
activity has occurred or is occurring, but includes areas of the property used
in common by all units of property, including, without limitation, other
structures erected on the property and areas used for parking, loading and
landscaping. (1998 Code § 8.16.010)
3-1-2: REAL PROPERTY KEPT CLEAN:
It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or legal entity owning
or occupying real property in the county to fail to remove from the property
any refuse, unsightly or deleterious objects or structures after having been
given written notice from the community development administrator. (1998 Code §
8.16.020)
3-1-3: EXAMINATION AND INVESTIGATION:
The community development administrator shall be authorized to make examination
and investigation of all property in the county to determine whether the owners
of such property are complying with the provisions of this chapter. (1998 Code
§ 8.16.030)
3-1-4: NUISANCES SPECIFIED:
   A.   Nuisances Affecting Public Health: No person shall cause or permit a
nuisance affecting public health on property owned or controlled by the person.
The following are nuisances affecting public health and may be abated, as
provided in this chapter:
      1.   Open vaults or privies constructed and maintained within the county,
except those constructed and maintained in connection with construction
projects in accordance with health department regulations.
      2.   Accumulations of debris, rubbish and other refuse which are not
removed within a reasonable time and which affect the health of the county.
      3.   Stagnant water that affords a breeding place for mosquitoes and
other insect pest.
      4.   Pollution of a body of water, well, spring, stream or drainage ditch
by sewage, industrial wastes, or other substances placed in or near the water
in a manner which will cause harmful material to pollute the water.
      5.   Decayed or unwholesome food offered for human consumption.
      6.   Premises that are in such a state or condition as to cause an
offensive odor or that are in an unsanitary condition.
      7.   Drainage of liquid wastes from private premises.
      8.   Cesspools or septic tanks that are in an unsanitary or unsafe
condition or that cause an offensive odor.
      9.   The deposition of an animal carcass, or part thereof, or any
excrement or sewage, industrial waste or any putrid, nauseous, decaying,
deleterious, offensive, or dangerous substance in a stream, well, spring,
brook, ditch, pond, river or other inland waters within the county, or the
placing of such substances in such position that high water or natural seepage
will carry the same into such waters.
      10.   Open burning, if not in accordance with chapter 3 of this title,
and amendments thereto. (1998 Code § 8.16.040)
   B.   Nuisances Affecting Public Safety: No person shall create a public
safety hazard by:
      1.   Maintaining or leaving, in a place accessible to children, a
container with a compartment of more than one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet
capacity and a door or lid that locks or fastens automatically when closed and
which cannot be easily opened from the inside.
      2.   Being the owner or otherwise having possession of property on which
there is a well, cistern, cesspool, excavation or other hole of a depth of four
feet (4') or more and a top width of six inches (6") or more and failing to
cover or fence it with a suitable protective construction.
      3.   Maintaining any building, structure or premises which is unfit for
human habitation, or which is an unreasonable hazard to the health of people
residing in the vicinity thereof, or which presents an unreasonable fire hazard
to the vicinity where it is located.
      4.   Maintaining any building, structure or premises contrary to the
provisions of any building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fire, housing or
dangerous building code adopted by the county.
      5.   Maintaining any building, structure or premises in an abandoned,
partially destroyed or unreasonable state of partial construction. An
"unreasonable state of partial construction" is defined as any unfinished,
abandoned or damaged building or structure where the appearance or other
conditions cause visual blight, are offensive to the senses, create a harborage
for rodents or pests, or detrimentally affect property in the vicinity.
      6.   Maintaining any building, structure or premises having dry rot,
warping, termite infestation, decay, excessive cracking or peeling as to render
the building or structure unsightly or in a state of disrepair.
      7.   Maintaining any building or structure with missing doors and/or
windows, or doors and/or windows with broken glass. (1998 Code § 8.16.050)
   C.   Attractive Nuisances; Exception:
      1.   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit on the
property:
         a.   Unguarded machinery, equipment or other devices that are
attractive, dangerous and accessible to the public.
         b.   Lumber, logs, or pilings placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous and accessible to the public.
         c.   Abandoned, vacant and unsafe houses that are attractive,
dangerous and accessible to the public.
         d.   Abandoned, vacant and unsafe vehicles that are attractive,
dangerous and accessible to the public.
      2.   This subsection does not apply to authorized construction projects
with reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to the public. (1998 Code
§ 8.16.060)
   D.   Noxious Weeds: No owners or persons in charge of real property shall
allow noxious weeds on their property. Noxious weeds, as defined in section
3-5-1 of this title, are declared a nuisance. (1998 Code § 8.16.070)
   E.   Scattering Rubbish: No person shall deposit, on public or private
property, rubbish, trash, debris, grass clippings, tree limbs or refuse, or any
substance which would mar the appearance, create a stench or fire hazard,
detract from the cleanliness or safety of the property, or would be likely to
injure a person, animal or vehicle traveling on a public way. (1998 Code §
18.16.080)
   F.   Trees And Vegetation:
      1.   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts a public road
shall permit trees, bushes, brush, limbs, shrubbery, flowers or other
vegetation on the property to interfere with traffic or impair the visibility
of official traffic control signs. An owner or person in charge of property,
which abuts on a road, shall keep all trees and bushes on the premises trimmed
so that any overhanging portions are at least eight feet (8') above the ground
level and at least thirteen feet six inches (13'6") above the roadway surface.
      2.   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow a dead or
decaying tree to stand if it is a hazard to the public or to persons or
property on or near the property.
      3.   The property owner is responsible for the timely removal of leaves
and tree limbs which fall onto the public right of way. No owner or person in
charge of property shall sweep or rake grass clippings, leaves or tree limbs
onto the public right of way.
      4.   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow any fence,
structure or vegetation to create a hazard for motorists. (1998 Code §
8.16.090)
   G.   Noise Disturbances:
      1.   The following acts are declared to be violations of this subsection,
but such enumerations shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
         a.   Parking a motor vehicle with the motor or auxiliary equipment in
operation on a public right of way or on private property between the hours of
nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., if the noise so
produced is plainly audible within a dwelling unit. This subsection shall not
apply to: county or publicly owned vehicles or equipment; commercial
construction equipment; the normal operation of commercial or private vehicles
designed and used for transportation of passengers; or to other commercial or
private vehicles being loaded or unloaded, including sanitation and waste
disposal vehicles.
         b.   The use of a motor vehicle, motorcycle or motorized vehicle,
whether or not designed for use on public roads, at any time or under any
condition of grade, load, acceleration, deceleration, movement, or at rest,
whether or not in repair or operated in such manner as to create loud or
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, motor winding, squealing, screeching
or other tire noise, or any other unnecessary noise.
         c.   The sounding of any horn, gong, siren, or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street, except as a necessary
warning of danger to property or person or as permitted to be used by
authorized emergency vehicles or in connection with work being done by
authorized agencies.
         d.   The use of any mechanical device, operated by compressed air,
steam, gasoline or otherwise, unless the noise created is in connection with
work being done by authorized agencies or an agricultural activity and/or is
effectively muffled between the hours of nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
         e.   In other than residential areas, the erection, including
excavation, demolition, alteration or repair, of any building or structure,
other than between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine thirty
o'clock (9:30) P.M., except by special permit granted by the county sheriff or
designee. The same standards shall apply in residential zones, except that such
work will not commence before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Saturday and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Sunday, and the following legal holidays: New Year's Day
(January 1); Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday (the third Monday in January);
Presidents' Day (the third Monday in February); Memorial Day (the last Monday
in May); Independence Day (July 4); Pioneer Day (July 24); Labor Day (the first
Monday in September); Veterans Day (November 11); Thanksgiving Day (the fourth
Thursday in November); Christmas Day (December 25); and Friday, when any of the
above holidays fall on the succeeding Saturday. The county sheriff may grant an
exception to a person from this subsection if the county sheriff determines
that the public interest requires it.
         f.   The use or operation of any device designed for sound production
or reproduction, including, but not limited to, any radio, television set,
musical instrument, stereophonic equipment, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound
production or reproduction device, bell, drum or chime, between the hours of
nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. so as to be
plainly audible within any dwelling unit which is not the source of the sound,
or use of such equipment on public property or on a public right of way so as
to be plainly audible fifty feet (50') or more from the source of the sound.
The county sheriff may grant an exemption from this subsection to allow a
person reasonable use of public property or the right of way to broadcast music
or speech.
         g.   The gathering of any number of persons upon premises, either
public or private, and the creation of excessive noise from the collective
voices of such persons between the hours of nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. "Excessive noise" means noise that is plainly audible
within any dwelling unit that is not the source of the sound.
      2.   Before a violation of this subsection is enforced, the person or
persons who create or assist in creating the excessive noise shall be warned or
requested by any person, either in writing or orally, to cease, reduce or
otherwise bring down the level of the sound. (1998 Code § 8.16.100)
   H.   Radio And Television Interference:
      1.   No person shall operate or use an electrical, mechanical or other
device, apparatus, instrument or machine that causes reasonably preventable
interference with radio or television reception by a radio or television
receiver of good engineering design.
      2.   This subsection does not apply to devices licensed, approved and
operated under the rules and regulation of the federal communications
commission. (1998 Code § 8.16.110)
   I.   Junk:
      1.   No person shall keep junk outdoors on a road, lot or premises, or in
a building, which is not wholly or entirely enclosed, except for doors used for
ingress and egress.
      2.   The term "junk", as used in this subsection, includes all
inoperative motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts, abandoned automobiles and
vehicles, machinery, machinery parts, appliances or appliance parts, iron or
other metal, glass, paper, lumber, wood, or other waste or discarded material.
      3.   This subsection does not apply to junk kept in a licensed junkyard,
recycling center or automobile wrecking house. (1998 Code § 8.16.120)
   J.   Notices And Advertisements:
      1.   No person shall affix or cause to be distributed any placard, bill,
advertisement or poster upon any real or personal property, public or private,
without first securing permission from the owner or person in charge of such
property. This section shall not be construed as an amendment to or a repeal of
any regulation now or hereafter adopted by the county regulating the use and
location of signs and advertising.
      2.   This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the distribution
of material during any parade or public gathering. (1998 Code § 8.16.130)
3-1-5: BUILDINGS DAMAGED BY FIRE, FLOOD AND OTHER CAUSES:
   A.   Damaged Buildings: Any structure or property damaged, in whole or in
part, by fire, flood, earthquake or other cause, to the extent the building may
not be safely occupied for commercial and/or residential purposes, shall
immediately be made safe so that it does not pose a danger to persons or other
structures (as determined by the building official).
   B.   Abatement By Owner: The owner of such damaged structures shall, within
one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the damage, obtain either a
building permit to rebuild the structure to current building code standards, or
remove the remaining debris or structure, level the building site and landscape
the property. If a building permit is issued, the owner shall have an
additional thirty (30) days to commence work, and such work shall be completed
within one year of permit issuance, unless weather or other conditions beyond
the control of the owner warrant a extension of time pursuant to subsection C
of this section. If the property owner elects to not obtain a building permit
within the one hundred twenty (120) days, then any basement or below grade
areas shall be filled, and the entire building site shall be leveled and
landscaped within this same one hundred twenty (120) day time period. Such work
shall be done without causing damage to the structural integrity of the
adjacent building. Filling shall be accomplished in a manner that will allow
for future construction on the property, as determined by the building
official.
   C.   Extensions Permitted: The county commission shall have the authority to
grant extension of no more than an additional one hundred twenty (120) days
each to the time limits established in this section if the properly owner can
show:
      1.   A qualified engineer or architect is preparing the plans and
specifications to submit for the building permit; or
      2.   A crime or insurance investigation has prevented owner performance
as required by this chapter; or
      3.   Weather conditions or other conditions beyond the control of the
owner have caused a delay in commencing or completing the required work; or
      4.   Rebuilding of the building requires permits that take longer time
frames to obtain; or
      5.   Cleanup work requires particular pieces or quantities of equipment
that are not readily available locally; or
      6.   Other factors exist that are deemed reasonable by the county
commission.
   D.   Abatement By County:
      1.   If the reconstruction or demolition and grading are not completed
within the time limits imposed by this chapter, the county commission may cause
the building to be demolished, and the property cleaned up, graded and
landscaped, after having a hearing on the need and feasibility of doing the
same. After hearing and decision of the county commission to proceed with
cleanup, demolition or other action, the county commission shall give the
property owner thirty (30) calendar days' written notice of the impending
demolition and cleanup prior to commencement of the work, unless such time
would put the public at unreasonable risk. If the property owner does not
commence the required work by the thirty (30) day notice period, the county
commission shall file a notice of noncompliance in the county deed records.
Said notice shall include:
         a.   A legal description of the subject property;
         b.   An estimate of the costs to bring the subject property into
compliance with this chapter; and
         c.   A statement that if the final cost is not paid within thirty (30)
days of the date of billing by the county, that such cost shall become a lien
on the property.
      2.   The community development administrator shall have the right to
enter into or upon any property or investigate or cause the removal of debris.
      3.   The county clerk/auditor shall keep an accurate record of the
expense incurred by the county in the demolition of the building and property
cleanup. Such expenses shall include a ten percent (10%) surcharge of all cost,
including contracts, to offset the expense of the administrative overhead.
      4.   The total amount of the cost of the abatement shall be assessed
against the property. If the costs of the abatement are not paid within thirty
(30) days from the date the property owner is billed by the county, a lien
against the property shall be filed with the office of the county clerk/auditor
and may be foreclosed in any manner provided by state law governing lien
foreclosure.
      5.   Interest shall be charged on the outstanding lien, at a rate
determined by resolution of the county commission, until it is paid in full.
   E.   Previously Destroyed Buildings: Owners of buildings destroyed by fire,
earthquake, flood or other causes prior to the effective date hereof, shall
have one year from the effective date hereof to comply. (1998 Code § 8.16.140)
3-1-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; APPEAL:
Upon a determination that a violation of the provisions of this chapter exists,
the community development administrator shall ascertain the name of the owner
or person responsible, and a description of the premises where the violation
exists, and shall serve notice, in writing, upon the person responsible, either
personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner,
occupant or person responsible at the last known address disclosed by the
records of the county assessor, requiring such person responsible to abate the
nuisance condition described in this chapter within such time as the community
development administrator may designate, which shall be no less than ten (10)
days from the date of service of such notice. The decision of the community
development administrator may be appealed to the county commission within ten
(10) days of the decision. (1998 Code § 8.16.150)
3-1-7: FAILURE TO COMPLY; ACTION BY COUNTY:
If any owner or occupant of property, or other person responsible described in
the notice provided for in this chapter, shall fail to abate the described
nuisance conditions in accordance with such notice, the community development
administrator is authorized to employ necessary assistance and abate the
nuisance. The community development administrator shall prepare an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the abatement of the nuisance conditions
and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner demanding payment within thirty (30)
days of the date of mailing. Such notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed
by registered mail and addressed to the last known address of the property
owner, occupant or person responsible. (1998 Code § 8.16.160)
3-1-8: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
The procedure provided by this chapter is not exclusive, but is in addition to
the procedures provided by other ordinances. A fire official, a law enforcement
officer, or any other county official, may proceed summarily to abate a health
or other nuisance which unmistakably exists and which imminently endangers
human life or property. Any summary closure proceeding shall be based on
evidence showing that nuisance activities exist or have occurred on the
property and that emergency action is necessary to avoid an immediate threat to
public welfare and safety. Proceedings to obtain an order of summary closure
shall be governed by the provisions of the state for obtaining temporary
restraining orders. In the event of summary closure, the county is not required
to comply with the notification procedures set forth in section
3-1-6 of this chapter. (1998 Code § 8.16.170)
3-1-9: COSTS OF REMOVAL TO LANDOWNER; OBJECTIONS:
Upon receipt of the itemized statement of the costs of nuisance abatement, the
county treasurer shall forthwith mail one copy to the owner of the land on
which the nuisance was abated, together with a notice that objection in writing
to the county commission may be made within thirty (30) days to the whole or
any part of the statement so filed. The county treasurer shall, at the same
time, deliver a copy of the statement to the clerk of the county commission. If
objections to any statement are filed with the county commission, they shall
set a date for hearing, giving notice thereof, and upon the hearing of the
matter, fix and determine the actual cost of nuisance abatement, reporting
their findings to the county treasurer. If no objections to the items of the
account are made within thirty (30) days of the date of mailing, the county
treasurer shall enter the amount of such statement on the assessment rolls of
the county in the column prepared for that purpose. The county treasurer shall,
within ten (10) days of the date of the action by the county commission, upon
any objections filed, enter into the prepared column upon the tax rolls, the
amount found by the county commission to be the cost of nuisance abatement. If
current tax notices have been mailed, the taxes so incurred may be carried over
on the rolls to the following year. After the entry by the county treasurer of
the costs of nuisance abatement, the amount so entered shall have the force and
effect of a valid judgment of the district court and shall be a lien upon the
lands from which the nuisance was abated, and shall be collected by the county
treasurer at the time of and in the manner provided for the payment of general
taxes. Upon payment, a receipt shall be acknowledged upon the general tax
receipt issued by the county treasurer. (1998 Code § 8.16.210)
3-1-10: ALTERNATE METHODS OF COMPELLING PAYMENT:
In the event the owner, occupant or person responsible fails to make payment of
the amount set forth in said statement to the county treasurer within thirty
(30) days of the date of mailing, the community development administrator may
either cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or refer the
matter to the county treasurer as provided in this chapter. (1998 Code §
8.16.180)
3-1-11: COLLECTION:
   A.   Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of nuisance abatement are
pursued through the court, the county shall sue for and receive judgment for
all expenses of nuisance abatement, together with reasonable attorney fees,
interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such judgment in the manner
provided by law. (1998 Code § 8.16.190)
   B.   Taxes: In the event that the community development administrator elects
to refer the expenses of nuisance abatement to the county treasurer for
inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, he or she shall make, in
triplicate, an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in such nuisance
abatement and shall deliver three (3) copies of the statement to the county
treasurer, within thirty (30) days after the completion of the nuisance
abatement work. (1998 Code § 8.16.200)
3-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation continues shall be a separate offense
and shall be punished as such. (1998 Code § 8.16.220; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LARGE PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: License Required; Fee
3-2-4: Exceptions
3-2-5: Conditions For Issuing License
3-2-6: Application For License
3-2-7: Issuance Of License
3-2-8: Alcohol, Controlled Substances And Firearms
3-2-9: Denial; Conditional License
3-2-10: Revocation Of License
3-2-11: Violation; Penalty
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the county to regulate the assemblage of large numbers of
people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire, police,
transportation, and utility services regularly provided in the county in order
that health, safety and welfare of all persons in the county, residents and
visitors alike, may be protected. (1998 Code § 8.08.010)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any single
time for any purpose.
PERSON: Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society or group. (1998 Code § 8.08.020)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct,
advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage, or sell or give
tickets to an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of five hundred (500)
or more people, which continues or can reasonably be expected to continue for
ten (10) or more consecutive hours, whether on public or private property,
unless a license to hold the assembly has first been issued by the county
commission, application for which must be made at least thirty (30) days in
advance of the assembly.
   B.   Separate License: A separate license shall be required for each
location in which five hundred (500) or more people assemble or can reasonably
be anticipated to assemble. (1998 Code § 8.08.020)
   C.   Fee: The fee for each license shall be as established by resolution of
the board of county commissioners. (1998 Code § 8.08.020; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Permitted Assembly: A license shall permit the assembly of only the
maximum number of people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell
tickets to nor permit to assemble at the licensed location more than the
maximum permissible number of people. (1998 Code § 8.08.020)
3-2-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Established Places Of Assembly: This chapter shall not apply to any
regular established, permanent place of worship, stadium, athletic field,
arena, auditorium, coliseum, or other similar permanently established place of
assembly for assemblies which do not exceed by more than two hundred fifty
(250) people the maximum seating capacity of the structure where the assembly
is held.
   B.   Fairs; Previously Licensed Assemblies: This chapter shall not apply to
government sponsored fairs held on regularly established fairgrounds, nor to
assemblies required to be licensed by other ordinances and regulations of the
county. (1998 Code § 8.08.020)
3-2-5: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUING LICENSE:
   A.   Establish Number Of Persons: Before anyone may be issued a license, the
applicant shall first determine the maximum number of people which will be
assembled or admitted to the location of the assembly; provided, that the
maximum number shall not exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the
assembly; and provided, that where the assembly is to continue overnight, the
maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries
of the location of the assembly by the zoning or health ordinances of the
county.
   B.   Required Conditions Specified: Before a license may be issued, the
applicant shall provide proof that he or she will furnish at their own expense
before the assembly commences:
      1.   Fence: A fence completely enclosing the proposed location, of
sufficient height and strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum
permissible number from gaining access to the assembly grounds, which shall
have at least four (4) gates, at least one at or near four (4) opposite points
of the compass; provided, however, this requirement may be waived by the
governing body of the county for good demonstrated cause;
      2.   Potable Water: Potable water meeting all federal and state
requirements for purity, sufficient to provide water for the maximum number of
people to be assembled at the rate required by state law;
      3.   Toilet Facilities: Separate enclosed toilets for males and females,
meeting all state and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the
grounds, sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to
be assembled at the rate required by state law. All portable toilets shall be
serviced and pumped out within forty eight (48) hours of completion of the
public assembly;
      4.   Solid Waste Removal: A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste,
in compliance with state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose
of the solid waste production of the maximum number of people to be assembled
at the rate of at least two and one-half (21/2) pounds of solid waste per
person per day, together with a plan for holding and a plan for collecting all
such waste at least once each day of the assembly, and sufficient trash cans
with tightfitting lids and personnel to perform the task;
      5.   Physicians, EMTs: Physicians or emergency medical technicians (EMTs)
licensed to practice in the state shall be present at all times, sufficient to
provide the medical care for the maximum number of people to be assembled at
the rate of at least one physician or three (3) EMTs for zero to three thousand
(3,000) people, plus one additional physician or EMT for each additional one
thousand five hundred (1,500) people. In the event that EMTs are used, at least
one of the three (3) required for the first three thousand (3,000) people shall
be qualified at the "intermediate" level. Together with the physician or EMTs,
there shall be an enclosed covered structure where treatment may be rendered,
and at least one emergency ambulance available for use at all times;
      6.   Entrance Personnel: Personnel situated at each entrance to the
assembly grounds to restrict hard liquor, controlled substances and firearms
from being brought into the assembly grounds;
      7.   Illumination: If the assembly is to continue during the hours of
darkness, illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at
the rate of at least five (5) foot- candles, but not to shine unreasonably
beyond the boundaries of the enclosed location of the assembly;
      8.   Parking: A free parking area inside of the assembly grounds
sufficient to provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one parking space for every four (4) persons;
      9.   Telephones: Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to
provide service for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of
at least one separate line and receiver for each one thousand (1,000) persons;
providing, however, this requirement may be waived by the governing body of the
county for good demonstrated cause;
      10.   Camping Facilities: If the assembly is to continue overnight,
camping facilities in compliance with federal, state and local requirements
sufficient to provide camping accommodations for the maximum number of people
to be assembled;
      11.   Security Guards: Security guards, either regularly employed, duly
sworn, off duty peace officers of the state, or private guards, licensed in the
state, sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one security guard for every five
hundred (500) people;
      12.   Parking Personnel: Parking personnel sufficient to handle all
vehicular traffic generated by the assembly as determined by the county, but in
no event less than one parking attendant for every one hundred fifty (150)
vehicles;
      13.   Fire Protection: Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing
devices and fire lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all federal, state and
local standards for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency
personnel to efficiently operate the required equipment; (1998 Code § 8.08.030)
      14.   Bond: A bond, filed with the county clerk/auditor, either in cash
or underwritten by a surety company licensed to do business in the state, in
the amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), which shall indemnify
and reimburse the county and any of its agents, departments, agencies,
officers, servants, and employees' overtime and other additional costs or
damages incurred as a result of the assembly; (1998 Code § 8.08.030; amd. 2010
Code)
      15.   Insurance:
         a.   A single limit broad form liability insurance policy (an "outdoor
event insurance policy", if applicable) acceptable to the county with minimum
policy limits of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for assemblies of less
than two thousand five hundred (2,500) people; two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) for assemblies of two thousand five hundred (2,500) to ten
thousand (10,000) people; and three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for
assemblies of ten thousand (10,000) people and above from an A+12 rated or
better insurance company, which specifically names the county, its officers,
agents, departments, servants and employees as insureds.
         b.   The applicant must also obtain an employer's liability
compensation insurance policy with a limit of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) and workers' compensation insurance. The insurance policies
shall be noncancellable ten (10) days prior to the assembly and must contain a
provision that if cancelled before said ten (10) day period, the insurance
company must immediately notify in writing, by registered mail, the county
clerk/auditor of such cancellation. If an insurance policy is cancelled, the
applicant shall immediately cancel the assembly or obtain like insurance
acceptable to the county not less than ten (10) days prior to the assembly.
(1998 Code § 8.08.030)
3-2-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application Required: Application for a license to hold an actual or
anticipated assembly of five hundred (500) or more persons shall be made in
writing to the county commission at least thirty (30) days in advance of such
assembly.
   B.   Statement: The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or
affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the
best knowledge of the applicant, and shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed
by the individual making application in the case of an individual natural human
being, by all directors and top officers in the case of a corporation, by all
partners in the case of a partnership or by all officers of an unincorporated
association, society or group, or, if there be no officers, by all members of
such association, society or group.
   C.   Content: The application shall contain and disclose:
      1.   The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons required
to sign the application by subsection B of this section, and in the case of a
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, together with
the name, age, residence and mailing address of each person holding ten percent
(10%) or more stock of said corporation;
      2.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, age, residence, and mailing
addresses of the record owners of all such property;
      3.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held and a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner of all
such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an
assembly of five hundred (500) or more persons;
      4.   The nature or purpose of the assembly;
      5.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last;
      6.   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the county zoning ordinance, if
the assembly is to continue overnight;
      7.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
      8.   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
      9.   The plans for fencing the location of the assembly and the gates
contained in such fence, or otherwise restricting the entrance to the assembly;
      10.   The plans for supplying potable water, including the source, amount
available and location of outlets;
      11.   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities, including
the source, number and location, type and the means of disposing of waste
deposited;
      12.   The plans for holding, collection and disposing of solid waste
material;
      13.   The plans to provide for medical facilities, including the location
and construction of a medical structure, the names, addresses and hours of
availability of physicians or EMTs, proof of their certification and level, and
provisions for emergency ambulance service;
      14.   The plans to restrict hard liquor, controlled substances and
firearms from being brought into the assembly grounds;
      15.   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps;
      16.   The plans for parking vehicles, including the size and locations of
lots, points of highway access and interior roads, including routes between
highway access and parking lots, and the number of parking personnel, their
deployment, and their names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability;
      17.   The plans for telephone services, including the source, number and
location of the telephones;
      18.   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location;
      19.   The plans for security, including the number of guards, their
deployment, their names, addresses, credentials, and hours of availability;
      20.   The plans for fire protection, including the number, type, and
location of all protective devices, including alarms and extinguishers, and the
number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment;
      21.   The plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds, including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires and their license or permit numbers;
      22.   A signed statement from the planning director that the plans of the
application meet all applicable zoning laws, and a copy of the conditional use
permit issued from the planning commission, if necessary;
      23.   A signed statement from the Uintah Basin health director that the
plans of the applicant meet all state and local health requirements;
      24.   A copy of the insurance policy required by subsection 3-2-5B15 of
this chapter;
      25.   The application shall include the cash deposit or bond required by
subsection 3-2-5B14 of this chapter. Said deposit and license fee shall be paid
by cash, certified check or money order. (1998 Code § 8.08.040)
3-2-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
All conditions of this chapter must be complied with to the satisfaction of the
county prior to issuance of the license. The county reserves the right to deny
any license application, otherwise complying with the conditions of this
chapter, if the county commission determines that issuance of such license
could involve a substantial risk to the health, safety, morality or general
welfare of those participating in the event, or to the community at large. Any
and all advance promotions or expenditures for the public assembly without
approval of the application for license are at the applicant's risk. (1998 Code
§ 8.08.070)
3-2-8: ALCOHOL, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND FIREARMS:
No hard liquor ("hard liquor" meaning any alcoholic beverage with an alcohol
content of 3.3 percent of alcohol by weight or greater), controlled substance,
as defined in Utah Code Annotated title 58, chapter 37, as amended, including
future amendments, or firearms, may be sold, dispensed or permitted to be
brought to the public assembly ground. Beer may be sold at the public assembly;
provided, that a beer license has been obtained from the county. (1998 Code §
8.08.050)
3-2-9: DENIAL; CONDITIONAL LICENSE:
   A.   Past Performance: When evaluating an application submitted pursuant to
this chapter, the county may consider the performance of the applicant pursuant
to any license or permit to hold a large public assembly previously granted by
the county, or any other jurisdiction, within the previous seven (7) years. If
applicant has failed to perform as agreed or required pursuant to such permit
or license, such failure shall be sufficient grounds to deny the present
license application.
   B.   Conditional License: As an alternative to denying the application for
license pursuant to subsection A of this section, the county may condition
granting the license upon applicant correcting or rectifying such failure to
perform in a manner acceptable to the county commission and/or upon applicant
agreeing to abide by such additional guarantees or conditions, beyond those
specifically set forth in this chapter, which the county commission shall
impose upon applicant to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
(1998 Code § 8.08.080)
3-2-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The license may be revoked by the county commission at any time if any of the
conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not
complied with, or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied with.
Failure to comply with the conditions necessary for issuing a license shall
constitute grounds for denial for a license in the future. (1998 Code §
8.08.090)
3-2-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Enforcement By Legal Process: The provisions of this chapter may be
enforced by injunction, restraining order, or other legal process in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Public Nuisance: The holding of an assembly in violation of any
provisions or conditions contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public
nuisance and may be abated as such. (1998 Code § 8.08.100)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense. (1998 Code § 8.08.100; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PROTECTION
SECTION:
3-3-1: Adoption Of Minimum Standards
3-3-2: Fire Restrictions
3-3-3: Closed Fire Season
3-3-4: Open Fire Season
3-3-5: Exceptions
3-3-6: Procedure For Obtaining A Burn Permit
3-3-7: Structural Fire Response Costs
3-3-1: ADOPTION OF MINIMUM STANDARDS:
The County hereby adopts the international urban-wildland interface code, with
the amendments identified in R652-122 of the Utah administrative code, as
currently set forth or as amended in the future by the division of forestry,
fire, and state lands, unless specifically excepted by amendment to this
section. All lands lying outside the boundaries of incorporated cities in the
county shall be subject to the provisions and requirements of the international
urban-wildland interface code, with state amendments. (Ord. 24-411, 7-8-2024)
3-3-2: FIRE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Authorized: This section shall be effective any time during the year
when the county fire warden and the county emergency management director
jointly determine that conditions are such that a fire danger exists which
justify the implementation of fire restrictions within the unincorporated areas
of the county. The county fire warden may impose fire restrictions, including,
but not limited to, a total fire ban on any open fire, including campfires,
even those in established fire pits and places of permanent habitation, as well
as fence lines on cultivated lands, canals or irrigation ditches.
   B.   Exception; Written Permit; Revocation:
      1.   When subsection A of this section is in effect, the county fire
warden may grant a permit to burn as an exception to the general ban, and the
permittee must comply fully with the terms and conditions prescribed by the
permit.
      2.   The county fire warden, county sheriff, or any law enforcement
officer may refuse, revoke, postpone, or cancel permits when they find it
necessary in the interest of public safety.
   C.   Penalty: When subsection A of this section is in effect, it is a class
B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code, to
set a fire, or cause to be set on fire, any flammable material on any forest,
brush, range, grass, grain, stubble, hay land, campfire, or any fire in a fire
pit, and fence lines on cultivated lands, canals, or irrigation ditches within
the county without the appropriate permit, or to violate any condition in an
authorized burning permit. (Ord. 24-411, 7-8-2024)
3-3-3: CLOSED FIRE SEASON:
   A.   Burning Prohibited; Exemptions: Subject to exemptions in this chapter,
burning is prohibited during the statutorily closed fire season from June 1
through October 31 and the regulatory closed fire season from November 16
through the last day of February. Where state statute permits, from June 1 to
October 31, and the person obtains a state issued closed season permit from the
county fire warden prior to burning, persons may burn pursuant to the terms of
the state issued permit.
   B.   Notification Requirement: When a person has obtained a closed season
burning permit, the person shall notify dispatch of the approximate time the
burn will occur before the burn takes place.
   C.   Exemptions: Any local, state, tribal, or federal fire official or
firefighting forces in the performance of official duty.
   D.   Misdemeanor: Any violation of this subsection shall be punishable as a
class B misdemeanor in accordance with Duchesne County Code 1-4-1. (Ord. 24-
411, 7-8-2024)
3-3-4: OPEN FIRE SEASON:
   A.   Burning Permit Required: Subject to exceptions in this chapter, the
person shall obtain a written county burning permit, which shall be filled out
completely before starting a fire in the unincorporated areas of the county
during the open fire season, which is March 1 through May 30 and November 1
through November 15. Exact dates will vary season to season, please contact
Duchesne County Emergency Management/Fire for information on the exact burn
window (435) 738-1226.
      1.   During the permitted burn season, it is a class B misdemeanor to set
on fire, or cause to be set on fire, any flammable material on any forest,
brush, range, grass, grain, stubble, or hay land without:
         a.   First, securing a written permit from the county fire warden,
chief fire officer, or official of each fire protection entity that is
responsible for providing fire protection services in the unincorporated areas
of the county; and
         b.   Complying fully with the terms and conditions prescribed by
permit.
   B.   Permits Are Subject To The Following Conditions:
      1.   Materials must be dry and reasonably free of dirt.
      2.   When atmospheric conditions (clearing index of 500 or greater)
indicate it is satisfactory to burn. (This information can be obtained through
Dispatch 435-738-2424 or the National Weather Service Website: https://
www.weather.gov/slc/ClearingIndex).
      3.   Burning shall not be done when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous, i.e., high winds, red flags, etc.
      4.   Burning shall be done at a distance of more than fifty feet (50')
from any building, structure, or other combustibles.
      5.   An adequate water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment shall
be available.
      6.   The burning area shall be constantly attended by a competent person
and shall be completely extinguished before being left. All fires shall be
completely extinguished before dark.
      7.   Applicant must be in legal control of the land on which the burning
is to take place.
      8.   Approved fuel breaks shall be established between the controlled
burning area and any endangered property. (The width of fuel breaks shall be
determined by height, type, amount of growth, wind conditions, geographical
conditions, and type of exposure.)
      9.   Adjacent neighbors shall be notified prior to burning.
      10.   Such burning shall not pose a threat to forest, range, or watershed
lands.
      11.   When burning is not on the same day the permit is issued, or the
permit is for more than one day, notification by the applicant to dispatch is
required on each day of burning.
       12.   Absolutely no burning of tires, oils, dead animals, trash,
rubbish, plastic products, coated wire, or building products. Items not grown
on the property cannot be burned.
   C.   1.   A burning permit is subject to the laws of the State of Utah,
Duchesne County, and the conditions stated upon or attached to the permit. The
county fire warden, chief fire officer, or official of each fire protection
entity that is responsible for providing fire protection services in the
unincorporated areas of the county, and the county emergency manager may
refuse, revoke, postpone, or cancel permits when they find it necessary in the
interest of public safety.
      2.   The burning permit does not relieve an individual from personal
liability due to neglect or incompetence. A fire escaping control of the
permittee that necessitates fire control action or does injury to the property
of another is prima facie evidence that the fire was not safe. Any person
responsible for the existence or spread of fire necessitating suppression
action shall be liable for the payment of suppression costs.
      3.   Failure to notify dispatch of the burning as required by this
section is a class B misdemeanor.
      4.   A burning conducted in accordance with subsection B is not a
reckless burning under section 76-6-104 unless the fire escapes control and
requires fire control action. Burning barrels and burning in closed containers
is prohibited.
   D.   1.   Burning permits will be issued only when in compliance with the
Utah Air Conservation Regulations. The following regulations must be met with
each permit issued:
         a.   The permit is not valid and operative unless the clearing index
is five hundred (500) or above. The clearing index is determined daily by the
U.S. Weather Bureau and available on the National Weather Service Salt Lake
City Weather link. It can also be obtained by calling the NWS Salt Lake City,
at (801) 524-5133 or by contacting your county fire warden.
         b.   A permit may be extended one day at a time, without inspection
upon request to the issuing officer. The request must be made before the
expiration of the permit.
      2.   Burning permits shall not be issued when red flag conditions exist
or are forecasted by the National Weather Service. Every permittee is required
to contact the National Weather Service to ensure that a red flag condition
does not exist or is not forecasted. Permits are not valid or operative during
declared red flag conditions.
      3.   During the permitted burn season, the state fire warden, chief fire
officer, or official of each fire protection entity that is responsible for
providing fire protection services in the unincorporated areas of the county
may postpone, revoke, or deny permits due to environmental conditions, public
nuisance, incompetency by the petitioner, or risk to public safety.
   E.   Penalties: Any violation of this section shall be punishable as a class
B misdemeanor in accordance with Duchesne County Code Title 1 Chapter 4. (Ord.
24-411, 7-8-2024)
3-3-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter are not applicable to:
      1.   Any local, state, tribal, or federal fire official or firefighting
forces in the performance of official duty.
      2.   Devices powered by Liquified Petroleum Gasses (LPG) for the purpose
of lighting, campfires, or preparing food, such as outdoor grills, where such
devices are not temporarily restricted by an order from the State of Utah, the
Utah State Forester, or in accordance with x-x-x.
      3.   Campfires and fires used solely for recreational purposes, where
such campfires are not temporarily restricted by an order from the State of
Utah, the Utah State Forester, or in accordance with x-x-x, and only when the
following county guidelines are followed:
         a.   Where such fires are under control of a responsible person.
         b.   The fire is contained in a pit eighteen inches (18") deep into
mineral soil absent of roots or any other organic materials or solid ring made
of non-combustible material that is at least eighteen inches (18") in height
that will contain the fuel wood or coals while shielding the ashes from being
blown by the wind.
         c.   Maintain eighteen-inch (18") depth of the pit by removing build
up ash and other material; assure disposed materials are completely
extinguished.
         d.   Campfire must be at least fifteen feet (15') away from any
combustible vegetation or structures, vertically or horizontally. Fire-
resistant material as part of the landscaping is excluded.
         e.   At least one (1) standard size shovel must be dedicated and
immediately available for on-site fire suppression.
          f.   Ten (10) gallons of water or a source of running water, or a
five (5) pound "A" rated or above fire extinguisher dedicated and immediately
available on-site for suppression.
         g.   Campfires must be completely extinguished, cold to the touch,
when not attended.
         h.   Combustible material used in the campfire is clean, dry wood or
charcoal.
         i.   Where such fire pits are not used to dispose of rubbish, trash,
or combustible waste material.
      Even when these guidelines are followed, persons responsible for escaped
or unattended campfires are subject to prosecution and suppression costs.
      4.   Indoor fireplaces and indoor residential solid fuel burning devices.
   B.   Exceptions per the State of Utah Department of Environmental Quality,
Air Quality Exclusions to the Gearing Index (R307-202-3) Administrative rule:
      1.   Except for areas zoned in residential, burning incident to
horticultural or agricultural operations of:
         a.   Pruning from trees and plants.
         b.   And dead or diseased trees, brush, and plants, including stubble.
      2.   Burning of weed growth along ditch banks for clearing these ditches
for irrigation purposes.
      3.   Controlled heating of orchards or other crops during the frost
season to lessen the chance of their being frozen so long as the emissions from
this heating do not cause or contribute to an exceedance of any national
ambient air quality standards and is consistent with the federally approved
State Implementation Plan.
      4.   The controlled burning of not more than two (2) structures per year
by an organized and operative fire department for the purpose of training fire
service personnel when the National Weather Service Gearing index is above five
hundred (500).
      5.   Ceremonial burning is excluded when conducted by a Native American
spiritual advisor. (Ord. 24-411, 7-8-2024)
3-3-6: PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A BURN PERMIT:
During the permitted burn season, the state fire warden shall be responsible
for signing and issuing a burn permit on forms provided by the county.
There are two (2) ways to complete the open burn permit application:
   A.   Online: The Open Burn Permit application can be completed online at:
https://air.utah.gov/OpenBurning/form/index.php. Completing this form online is
the easiest and fastest way to complete the open burn permit application. An
electronic copy of the application is automatically submitted to the county or
municipal fire authority upon completion.
   B.   Phone: An applicant can call DAQ at (801) 536-4000 and complete the
open burn permit application process over the phone. A DAQ inspector will ask
the applicant for the required information and complete the application in just
a few minutes.
Contact the County or State Fire Warden for any questions. (Ord. 24-411, 7-8-
2024)
3-3-7: STRUCTURAL FIRE RESPONSE COSTS:
   A.   A property owner or vehicle owner, who owns property that is located in
the unincorporated areas of Duchesne County is responsible to pay for the
actual and reasonable costs of responding to a fire that occurs on the
property.
   B.   Any municipality that responds to a structural fire in the
unincorporated areas of Duchesne County for a property, is authorized to and
shall send a bill directly to the property owner for the actual and reasonable
costs of the services provided.
   C.   Any costs under this section that are not paid by the property owner
after reasonable attempts to collect by the County or municipality shall
constitute a political subdivision lien under Utah Code § 11-60-102(5). The
County Treasurer shall collect all political subdivision liens under this
section as a tax notice charge as set forth in Utah Code § 59-2-1317(2) so long
as the municipality or other political subdivision has recorded the lien and
followed other statutory requirements for a tax notice charge. (Ord. 24-411, 7-
8-2024)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Declaration Of Policy
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Administration
3-4-5: Closure, Use Of Landfill
3-4-6: Public Disposal Facilities
3-4-7: Supervision And Management
3-4-8: Solid Waste Collection Services; Licensing Requirements
3-4-9: Waste Collection And Disposal
3-4-10: Fees For Disposal
3-4-11: Other Commercial Collectors
3-4-12: Solid Waste Declared Public Nuisance
3-4-13: Hazardous Waste
3-4-14: Scavenging Prohibited
3-4-15: Salvaging
3-4-16: Maintaining Illegal Site
3-4-17: State And Federal Laws Applicable
3-4-18: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is to regulate collection, transportation and disposal of solid
waste, and the management of solid waste facilities in the county. (1998 Code §
8.20.010)
3-4-2: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
Solid waste management must be regulated to the extent necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public. This system is intended to encourage
private garbage collection services within the unincorporated areas of this
county, and to encourage compliance with all federal and state laws and
regulations governing the collection, transportation and disposal of solid and
hazardous wastes, and otherwise to protect the environment of the county. The
county shall have only one designated landfill, otherwise known as the Blue
Bench landfill, within the county. It is further necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public to require that all solid waste (other
than sludge and certain hazardous and pathological wastes which, by law, cannot
be disposed of within the county) generated within the county, and is collected
by an approved collection agent, must be transported and delivered to the
designated county landfill. Private collection stations may be licensed and
authorized by the county. (1998 Code § 8.20.020)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein unless their use in the text of this chapter clearly
demonstrates a different meaning:
ABANDONED: Discarded, inoperable or no longer usable in its original or a
similar capacity, and is unsightly or contributes to a risk to the health or
safety of any person.
ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed by the Duchesne County board of
commissioners to administer solid waste management.
BLUE BENCH LANDFILL: The Duchesne - Wasatch jointly owned landfill located
approximately eight (8) miles north of Duchesne, Utah, on section 32, township
2 south, range 4 west, Uintah special base and meridian.
BULKY WASTE: Means and includes large items of solid waste, such as appliances,
furniture, large auto parts, trees, branches, stumps and other oversized waste,
whose large size precludes or complicates their handling by normal collection,
processing or disposal methods.
COLLECTION: The act of collecting solid waste at the place of generation by an
approved collection agent (public or private).
COLLECTOR: Any person who operates service routes or provides service and is
directly or indirectly reimbursed for the collection and disposal of solid
waste from residential, commercial or industrial premises in the unincorporated
area of Duchesne County.
COUNTY: The county of Duchesne, state of Utah.
COUNTY COMMISSION: The board of county commissioners of Duchesne County, Utah.
DISPOSAL SITE: Means and includes the place, location, tract, area or premises
in use, intended to be used, or which has been used, for the disposal of waste.
GARBAGE: Means and includes all kitchen and table waste, and animal or
vegetable waste that attends or results from the storage, preparation, cooking
or handling of foodstuffs.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Solid waste which is excessively toxic or poisonous,
corrosive, irritating or sensitizing, radioactive, biologically infectious,
explosive or flammable, and all waste classified as hazardous or infectious by
state and federal law or regulation.
ILLEGAL DUMPING: The disposal of any solid waste in any place other than a
private collection station or the Blue Bench landfill.
LANDFILL: A disposal site employing an engineered method of disposing of solid
wastes that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading, compacting to the
smallest practical volume, and applying cover material over all exposed wastes
as required by statutes and regulations.
LICENSEE: A person who holds a valid, unrevoked and unexpired license to
collect or transport solid waste issued pursuant to this chapter.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, copartnership, political
subdivision, government agency, municipality, public or private corporation, or
any other entity whatsoever.
PRIVATE COLLECTION STATION: Any authorized or licensed place for collection of
solid waste. It shall also mean a can, dumpster or other receptacle
specifically used for the temporary holding of solid waste.
PUTRESCIBLE WASTES: Means and includes wastes that are capable of being
decomposed by microorganisms with sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances
because of odors, gases or other offensive conditions, and include materials
such as food wastes, offal and dead animals.
REFUSE: Means and includes garbage and rubbish.
RESIDENCE OR RESIDENTIAL: Of, from or pertaining to any property or premises
containing a structure which is used for human habitation. It shall include,
but shall not be limited to, single homes, mobile homes, townhomes,
condominiums and apartments not contained in or a part of an apartment complex
of more than eight (8) units. It shall exclude hotels, motels, recreational
vehicle developments and apartment complexes with more than eight (8) units,
which shall be considered commercial establishments.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE: Means and includes garbage, rubbish and types of domestic
wastes associated with or which originate in residential dwellings.
RUBBISH: Means and includes nonputrescible solid waste, such as ashes, paper,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, plastics,
rubber byproducts, small appliances or litter.
SALVAGING: The controlled or authorized storage or removal of waste for reuse.
SCAVENGING: The uncontrolled or unauthorized removal of solid waste materials.
SOLID WASTE: Means and includes all putrescible and nonputrescible solid and
semisolid wastes, such as refuse, garbage, rubbish, paper, ashes, industrial
wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned vehicles and parts
thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances, manure, vegetable or animal
solid and semisolid wastes and shall include other discarded material
classified as solid waste by state and federal law or regulation.
SOLID WASTE FACILITY: Includes a resource recovery facility, disposal site, a
solid waste transfer or processing station, and a private collection station.
(1998 Code § 8.20.080)
3-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Establishment Of Rules And Regulations:
      1.   Solid Waste Management: The county commission shall adopt, revise,
revoke and enforce such rules and regulations governing the health, safety,
welfare and environmental aspects of solid waste management within this county
as it deems appropriate. Such rules and regulations shall not be construed as
exempting any person from complying with applicable state and federal laws and
regulations. (1998 Code § 8.20.200)
      2.   Waste Management Facilities: The county commission may also adopt
regulations and guidelines governing the administration of the Blue Bench
landfill and other solid waste facilities, including assessment of fees for use
of the same. Such regulations and fee schedule shall be posted at the Blue
Bench landfill and otherwise made available to the general public for its use
and inspection. (1998 Code § 8.20.210)
   B.   Appointment Of Administrator: The county commission shall appoint an
administrator of solid waste management to be responsible for the
administrative management of this chapter and the rules and regulations
pertaining to solid waste management and the Blue Bench landfill, and to
coordinate solid waste management efforts with the Uintah Basin district health
department, the county director of planning and zoning, the sheriff's
department, the Ute Indian Tribe, and federal, state and municipal authorities
involved in solid waste management. (1998 Code § 8.20.220)
3-4-5: CLOSURE, USE OF LANDFILL:
As of December 15, 1989, all landfills situated within unincorporated areas of
the county were closed, except the Blue Bench landfill, eight (8) miles north
of Duchesne, Utah. No other landfill or solid waste disposal site shall be
constructed, operated or used within the unincorporated areas of the county
without the approval of the state department of environmental quality (DEQ),
the United States environmental protection agency (EPA) and the county
commission. (1998 Code § 8.20.030)
3-4-6: PUBLIC DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
For the purpose of safeguarding the health, safety and welfare of the
community, the county commission may establish or designate sites under the
control of the county to be used as public disposal facilities. These sites
shall be known as county solid waste facilities and are to be operated in
accordance with state and federal standards, and county rules and regulations.
The county commission designates the Blue Bench landfill, and the private
collection stations, as the only solid waste facilities in the unincorporated
areas of the county. The Blue Bench landfill shall be the only designated
landfill in the county. (1998 Code § 8.20.090)
3-4-7: SUPERVISION AND MANAGEMENT:
All county solid waste facilities shall be under the supervision of the
administrator, who shall have the authority and duty to promulgate laws and
regulations regarding the use and operation of such facilities. Nothing herein
shall prohibit the county commission from entering into a contract with any
person for the management of such facilities. (1998 Code § 8.20.100)
3-4-8: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICES; LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: Any person providing solid waste collection services
within the unincorporated areas of Duchesne County will be required to have a
collector's license, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Persons removing waste from their homes or produced in the course of
their own business;
      2.   Collectors licensed or operated by an agency of the United States
government, the state of Utah, the Ute Indian Tribe, or an incorporated
municipality within this county which are in the business of collecting for
their own entity. These entities are prohibited from collecting from any other
individual or entities other than their own entity as listed above within
Duchesne County without a business license; (1998 Code § 8.20.140)
      3.   The administrator is authorized to issue a license upon receipt of
any applicable fee and pursuant to conditions, standards and submissions as
established by the county commission. All licenses so issued shall be
conditioned upon observance of all federal and state laws and regulations,
ordinances of the county commission, and rules and regulations authorized
herein. Violation of the same, after notice and hearing, shall constitute
grounds for revocation or suspension of such license. It is unlawful for anyone
to operate without a license. (1998 Code § 8.20.140; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Application; Requirements:
      1.   Any person applying for a license shall submit to the administrator
the following:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant;
         b.   If the applicant is a firm, association, organization,
partnership, joint venture, privately held corporation, business trust or
company, the names and addresses of owners and officers and their percentage of
ownership;
         c.   A description of all trucks and equipment that the applicant owns
or has under applicant's control for the collection or transportation of solid
waste which will be used to provide service;
         d.   Evidence that applicant has a policy of liability insurance in
the amount of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00);
         e.   Evidence of appropriate permits and licenses required under state
or federal laws and regulations;
         f.   Evidence of familiarity with, and willingness and ability to
comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations dealing
with the collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste. (1998 Code §
8.20.150)
      2.   Upon the submission of the completed application, the administrator
shall request of the county sheriff's department a check of the criminal
records of those persons connected with the applicant. Said check shall be
completed within thirty (30) days of the request and the report shall be
submitted, along with the application for the license, to the county
commission. The county commission shall, unless for good cause shown otherwise,
issue the applicant a license to collect solid wastes within the county. Said
license shall be for a certain time period as set forth in the regulations, but
in no event for more than two (2) years. (1998 Code § 8.20.150; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Renewal Of License: The license required in this chapter shall be
renewable by the county commission, provided the applicant provides updated
proof of liability insurance and evidence of current state and federal permits
and licenses, unless the number of valid complaints received about the
operation of a licensee suggests a failure to provide the promised service or a
failure to comply with applicable laws, ordinances and regulations. (1998 Code
§ 8.20.160)
   D.   Revocation Of License: Failure or refusal to transport and dispose of
residential waste in the county designated facility will result in revocation
of the license. (1998 Code § 8.20.170; amd. 2010 Code)
3-4-9: WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Commercial, Industrial: Commercial and industrial wastes generated
within the county shall be collected by a licensed or authorized collector, and
must be disposed of at the Blue Bench landfill. An exception to this
requirement may be granted for the business to dispose of its own waste in the
Blue Bench landfill, under the following rules:
      1.   The business shall make application to the administrator;
      2.   The business shall certify by signed affidavit that all its
generated waste will be disposed of at the Blue Bench landfill, which will
provide verification of the same, and that it will not burn or discard such
waste in an unlawful manner;
      3.   Transportation of the waste will be in compliance with state law
and/or in such a manner so as to prevent the waste from blowing or spilling off
the vehicle and/or causing roadside litter;
      4.   Submit to a periodic audit to ensure that its waste was properly
disposed of. (1998 Code § 8.20.110)
   B.   Residential:
      1.   Residential waste shall be collected by a licensed or authorized
collector, and must be disposed of in the Blue Bench landfill. (1998 Code §
8.20.120; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   An exception to this requirement may be granted for private disposal
at the Blue Bench landfill or other state permitted landfill under the
following rules:
         a.   The resident shall make application to the administrator;
         b.   Certify by signed affidavit that all household garbage will be
disposed of at the Blue Bench landfill or other state permitted landfill, and
agree to provide verification of such, and that they will not burn, bury or
discard such waste in an unlawful manner;
         c.   Transporting the waste will be done in such a manner as to
prevent the waste from blowing or spilling off the vehicle and causing roadside
litter;
         d.   Satisfy a periodic audit to ensure that their waste was properly
disposed of.
      3.   Note: Where certain areas would accommodate dumpsters better than
cans, residents may choose by negotiation with the licensed collector as to
method preferred. (1998 Code § 8.20.120)
3-4-10: FEES FOR DISPOSAL:
The Blue Bench landfill special service district shall establish fees for
disposal at the Blue Bench landfill by resolution. Said fees shall be collected
at the Blue Bench landfill at the time of disposal, as authorized by the fee
resolution. (1998 Code § 8.20.130; amd. 2010 Code)
3-4-11: OTHER COMMERCIAL COLLECTORS:
Any and all other commercial collector services operating within the county
shall coordinate solid waste management efforts with the administrator. (1998
Code § 8.20.230)
3-4-12: SOLID WASTE DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to dump, deposit or allow to be placed
any solid waste, in any place within the unincorporated areas of the county,
except the Blue Bench landfill, or a private collection station, unless
specifically authorized to do so by the EPA, DEQ or the county commission.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to allow garbage, trash, dead animals,
refuse or putrescible wastes to accumulate upon premises under his or her
control, or to fail to remove the same within twenty four (24) hours, or such
greater time as may be allowed, after notification from the Uintah Basin
district health department, the county director of planning and zoning, the
county administrator of solid waste management or the county sheriff's
department.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit unsightly junk, scrap
metal, construction wastes, wastepaper products, discarded building materials,
or any abandoned vehicles or vehicle parts, machinery or machinery parts,
appliances or appliance parts, or other similar waste to be upon premises under
his or her control, or to fail to remove or organize in a sightly manner the
same within ten (10) days, or such greater period as may be allowed, after
notification from the Uintah Basin district health department, the county
director of planning and zoning, the county administrator of solid waste
management or the county sheriff's department.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person, except the duly authorized agents of the
county or its contractor authorized to do so, to start or cause any fire at the
Blue Bench landfill or at any collection station, or therein to dump, deposit
or allow to be placed any hot ashes or coals, or any fire residue not
completely cool, or any other material creating a clear fire hazard.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to deposit any solid waste, other than
garbage, rubbish or residential waste, at a private collection station without
the permission of the owner- operator of that private collection station.
   F.   It is unlawful to transport waste in such a manner as to allow it to
blow off the vehicle and litter the roadside. Waste susceptible to this problem
must be covered for transportation. (1998 Code § 8.20.040)
3-4-13: HAZARDOUS WASTE:
   A.   No person shall transport or collect hazardous waste without compliance
with all applicable federal, state and county laws and regulations.
   B.   No person shall deposit, dump, spill or otherwise allow to be placed at
the Blue Bench landfill, or at any private collection station, any hazardous
waste (except usual residential waste and other waste exempted from federal,
state and county regulations).
   C.   Nothing in this chapter is intended, or shall be construed, to exempt
any person from complying with all applicable county, state and federal laws
and regulations regarding generation, storage, collection, transportation,
processing or disposing of solid and hazardous wastes. (1998 Code § 8.20.070)
3-4-14: SCAVENGING PROHIBITED:
Scavenging is illegal at all solid waste facilities. (1998 Code § 8.20.050)
3-4-15: SALVAGING:
Salvaging may be allowed, provided those engaged in the business of salvaging
have complied with the regulations concerning the operation of business within
the county, and rules concerning the same promulgated by the administrator of
solid waste management. (1998 Code § 8.20.060)
3-4-16: MAINTAINING ILLEGAL SITE:
   A.   Notice To Remove:
      1.   The administrator, or his or her authorized agent, is authorized and
empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within the
county, or the agent of such owner, to properly dispose of solid waste located
on such owner's property which is dangerous to public health, safety or
welfare.
      2.   Such notice shall be by registered mail, addressed to said owner at
his or her last known address.
   B.   Action Upon Noncompliance: Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any
owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of solid waste dangerous to the
public health, safety or welfare within thirty (30) days after receipt of
written notice provided for in subsection A of this section, or within thirty
(30) days after date of such notice in the event the same is returned to the
county because of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided the same was
properly addressed to the last known address of such owner or agent, the
administrator is authorized and empowered to order its disposal by the county.
   C.   Assessment For Costs Lien Payment: Cost of abating a nuisance within
the meaning of this chapter (after opportunity for a hearing thereon) shall be
a special assessment against the land on which such abatement was done, and
shall constitute a lien, accrue penalties and interest, and be collectable in
accordance with this chapter. (1998 Code § 8.20.190)
3-4-17: STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from complying
with state and federal laws, rules and regulations. In the event of conflict,
state and federal laws, rules and regulations shall supersede and control.
(1998 Code § 8.20.240)
3-4-18: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
All violations set forth in this chapter are declared to be a public nuisance.
Knowing and intentional violations shall be a crime punishable as a class B
misdemeanor, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of knowing and intentional violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (1998 Code § 8.20.180; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Creation Of Weed Control Board
3-5-3: Responsibilities Of The Weed Control Board
3-5-4: Weed Control Supervisor Appointment And Duties
3-5-5: Declaration Of Noxious Weeds
3-5-6: Notice And Control Of Noxious Weeds And Public Nuisance
3-5-7: Failure To Control Noxious Weeds And Liability Of Property Owner
3-5-8: Right To Hearing And Appeal
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COMMISSION: Means the Duchesne County Commission.
COUNTY: Means Duchesne County, Utah.
COUNTY NOXIOUS WEED: Means any plant which is not on the State noxious weeds
list, but is especially troublesome in Duchesne County, and is declared by the
Duchesne County Commission to be a noxious weed within Duchesne County.
NOXIOUS WEED: Means any plant the State Commissioner or Duchesne County
Commissioners, determines to be especially injurious to public health, crops,
livestock, land, or other property.
REASONABLE NOTICE: Means notice given by any means, whether oral or written,
that would provide actual notice to the landowner of action to be taken. It is
presumed that notice should actually be received three (3) working days after
it was sent.
STATE COMMISSIONER: Means the Commissioner of Agriculture and Food or the
Commissioner's representative.
TARGETED NOXIOUS WEEDS: Means those weeds on the noxious weed list that the
Duchesne County Weed Control Board has specifically targeted for eradication
efforts.
WEED CONTROL BOARD: Means the Duchesne County Weed Control Board. (Ord. 18-366,
4-23-2018)
3-5-2: CREATION OF WEED CONTROL BOARD:
There shall be created a Weed Control Board within Duchesne County, consisting
of five (5) appointed members. At least two (2) members of the board will be
farmers or ranchers whose primary source of income is derived from the
production of agriculture within Duchesne County. Members will be appointed by
the commission for a term of four (4) years. Terms shall be staggered so that
no more than two (2) members will be appointed at any one time to fill the
positions of board members whose terms have expired. Board members shall be
paid compensation as determined by resolution of the commission. Members may be
removed for cause and any vacancy which occurs on the Weed Control Board shall
be filled by appointment for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
Duchesne County currently has an acting committee known as the "Weed Board" and
the initial Weed Control Board shall be the five (5) members of the existing
"Weed Board" with initial terms corresponding to the current terms of the "Weed
Board". (Ord. 18-366, 4-23-2018)
3-5-3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE WEED CONTROL BOARD:
   A.   The Weed Control Board is responsible, under the general direction of
the commission, for the formulation and implementation of a coordinated noxious
weed control program designed to prevent and control noxious weeds within the
County. Such a program shall focus on a particular type of noxious weed on a
Countywide basis or on a specific weed or variety of noxious weeds within a
sector of the County.
   B.   The Weed Control Board is required, under the general direction of the
commission, to cooperate with other county weed control boards to prevent and
control the spread of noxious weeds.
   C.   The commission may declare a particular weed or competitive plant, not
appearing on the State noxious weed list, a noxious weed within the County. The
commission may also petition the State Commissioner for removal of a particular
noxious weed from the State noxious weed list. The commission may not petition
the State Commissioner to remove a noxious weed unless it has first conducted a
public hearing, after due notice. (Ord. 18-366, 4-23-2018)
3-5-4: WEED CONTROL SUPERVISOR APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES:
The commission will employ a Weed Control Supervisor qualified to detect and
treat noxious weeds and to direct the weed control program for the Weed Control
Board. Terms and conditions of employment shall be prescribed by the
commission.
It is the duty of the supervisor, under the direction of the Weed Control
Board, to examine all land under the jurisdiction of the Weed Control Board.
Examination shall determine whether the Utah Noxious Weed Act and the
regulations of the State Commissioner have been met, to compile data on
infested areas, to consult and advise upon matters pertaining to the best and
most practical method of noxious weed control and prevention. The Weed Control
Supervisor shall render assistance and direction for the most effective control
and prevention, to investigate violations of this chapter, to enforce noxious
weed control within Duchesne County, and to perform any other duties required
by the Weed Control Board. (Ord. 18-366, 4-23-2018)
3-5-5: DECLARATION OF NOXIOUS WEEDS:
The following are declared to be noxious weeds within Duchesne County, to wit:
   A.   Class 1A; Early Detection Rapid Response (EDRR): Watch list declared
noxious and invasive weeds not native to the State of Utah and not known to
exist in the State that pose a serious threat to the State and should be
considered as a very high priority.
   African rue - Peganumharmala
   Common crupina - Crupina vulgaris
   Malta starthistle - Centaureamelitensis
   Mediterranean sage - Salvia aethiopis
   Plumeless thistle - Carduusacanthoides
   Small bugloss - Anchusaarvensis
   Spring millet - Miliumvernale
   Syrian beancaper - Zygophyllumfabago
   Ventenata (North Africa grass) - Ventenatadubia
   B.   Class 1B; Early Detection Rapid Response (EDRR): Declared noxious and
invasive weeds not native to the State of Utah that are known to exist in the
State in very limited populations and pose a serious threat to the State and
should be considered as a very high priority.
   African mustard - Brassica tournefortii
   Blueweed (Vipers bugloss) - Echium vulgare
   Camelthorn - Alhagimaurorum
   Common St. Johnswort - Hypericumperforatum
   Cutleafvipergrass - Scorzoneralaciniata
   Elongated mustard - Brassica elongata
   Garlic mustard - Alliariapetiolata
   Giant reed - Arundodonax
   Goatsrue - Galega officinalis
   Japanese knotweed - Polygonumcuspidatum
   Oxeye daisy - Leucanthemum vulgare
   Purple starthistle - Centaureacalcitrapa
   C.   Class 2; Control: Declared noxious and invasive weeds not native to the
State of Utah, that pose a threat to the State and should be considered a high
priority for control. Weeds listed in the control list are known to exist in
varying populations throughout the State. The concentration of these weeds is
at a level where control or eradication may be possible.
   Black henbane - Hyoscyamusniger
   Dalmation toadflax - Linariadalmatica
   Diffuse knapweed - Centaureadiffusa
   Dyers woad - Isatistinctoria
   Leafy spurge - Euphorbia esula
   Medusahead - Taeniatherum caput-medusae
   Purple loosestrife - Lythrumsalicaria
   Rush skeletonweed - Chondrillajuncea
   Spotted knapweed - Centaureastoebe
   Squarrose knapweed - Centaureavirgata
   Yellow starthistle - Centaureasolstitialis
   Yellow toadflax - Linaria vulgaris
   D.   Class 3; Containment: Declared noxious and invasive weeds not native to
the State of Utah that are widely spread. Weeds listed in the containment
noxious weeds list are known to exist in various populations throughout the
State. Weed control efforts may be directed at reducing or eliminating new or
expanding weed populations. Known and established weed populations, as
determined by the weed control authority, may be managed by any approved weed
control methodology, as determined by the weed control authority. These weeds
pose a threat to the agricultural industry and agricultural products.
   Bermudagrass 1  - Cynodondactylon
   Canada thistle - Cirsiumarvense
   Field bindweed (Wild Morning-glory) - Convolvulus spp.
   Hoary cress - Cardaria spp.
   Houndstounge - Cynoglossumofficianale
   Jointed goatgrass - Aegilopscylindrica
   Musk thistle - Carduusnutans
Perennial Sorghum spp.: Johnson Grass (Sorghum halepense) and Sorghum almum
(Sorghum almum)
   Perennial pepperweed (Tall whitetop) - Lepidiumlatifolium
   Phragmites (Common reed) - Phragmitesaustralis ssp.
   Poison hemlock - Conium maculatum
   Puncturevine (Goathead) - Tribulusterrestris
   Quackgrass - Elymusrepens
   Russian knapweed - Acroptilonrepens
   Scotch thistle (Cotton thistle) - Onopordumacanthium
   Tamarisk (Saltcedar) - Tamarixramosissima
   E.   Class 4; Prohibited: Declared noxious and invasive weeds, not native to
the state of Utah, that pose a threat to the State through the retail sale or
propagation in the nursery and greenhouse industry. Prohibited noxious weeds
are annual, biennial, or perennial plants that the Commissioner designates as
having the potential or are known to be detrimental to human or animal health,
the environment, public roads, crops, or other property.
   Cogongrass (Japanese blood grass) - Imperatacylindrica
   Dames Rocket - Hesperismatronalis
   Myrtle spurge - Euphorbia myrsinites
   Russian olive - Elaeagnusangustifolia
   Scotch broom - Cytisusscoparius (Ord. 18-366, 4-23-2018)
 
Notes
  1. Bermudagrass (Cynodondactylon) shall not be a noxious weed in Washington
  County and shall not be subject to provisions of the Utah Noxious Weed Law
1 within the boundaries of that county. It shall be a noxious weed throughout
  all other areas of the State of Utah and shall be subject to the laws
  therein.
3-5-6: NOTICE AND CONTROL OF NOXIOUS WEEDS AND PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   The Weed Control Board, before May 1 of each year, shall post a general
notice of the noxious weeds and targeted noxious weeds within the County in at
least three (3) public places within the County. The same notice shall be
published, on at least three (3) occasions, in a newspaper or other publication
of general circulation within the County.
   B.   If the Weed Control Board determines that particular property within
the County requires prompt and definite attention to prevent or control
targeted noxious weeds, it shall serve the owner or the person in possession of
the property, personally or by certified mail, a notice specifying when and
what action should be taken on the property. Methods of prevention or control
may include definite systems of tillage, cropping, use of chemicals, and use of
livestock.
   C.   An owner or person in possession of property who, within five (5) days
after notice, fails to take action to control or prevent the spread of noxious
weeds as specified in the notice or fails to request a hearing or appeal, shall
be deemed to be maintaining a public nuisance.
   D.   Control of weeds in rights-of-way for Class A, Class B and Class C
roads shall be the responsibility of the public entity having jurisdiction over
said roads.
   E.   This chapter is not intended to apply to research labs or experiment
stations operated by a governmental agency or educational entity for the study
of noxious weeds and the control thereof, provided that said lab or experiment
station has been approved by the Weed Control Board. (Ord. 18-366, 4-23-2018)
3-5-7: FAILURE TO CONTROL NOXIOUS WEEDS AND LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   If the owner or person in possession of the property fails to take
action to control or prevent the spread of noxious weeds within five (5)
working days after the property is declared a public nuisance, the Weed Control
Supervisor or authorized agent may, after reasonable notification, enter the
property, without the consent of the owner or the person in possession, and
perform any work necessary, consistent with sound weed prevention and control
practices, to control the weeds.
   B.   Any expense incurred by the County in controlling the noxious weeds is
paid by the property owner of record or the person in possession of the
property, as the case may be, within ninety (90) days after receipt of the
charges incurred by the County. If not paid within ninety (90) days after
notice of the charges, the charges, together with interest at the prevailing
legal rate, become a lien against the property and are collectible by the
County Treasurer at the time general Property Taxes are collected. (Ord. 18-
366, 4-23-2018)
3-5-8: RIGHT TO HEARING AND APPEAL:
   A.   Any person served with notice to control noxious weeds may request a
hearing to appeal the terms of the notice before the Weed Control Board within
five (5) days of receipt of such notice. The Weed Control Board must hold a
hearing on the matter within ten (10) days of receipt of the request. The
landowner or person in possession who has requested the hearing may appeal the
decision of the Weed Control Board to the commission. Said appeal to the
commission shall be filed within five (5) days of the date of the Weed Control
Board's decision.
   B.   Any person served with notice to control noxious weeds who has had a
hearing before both the Weed Control Board and the commission may further
appeal the decision of the commission by filing written notice of appeal with a
court of competent jurisdiction, within thirty (30) days of the commission's
decision. (Ord. 18-366, 4-23-2018)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
DISASTER RESPONSE AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Legislative Findings; Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Emergency Disaster Council Created
4-1-4: Emergency Declaration
4-1-5: Authority And Power Of Board Of County Commissioners
4-1-6: Orders, Rules, Regulations Having Force Of Law
4-1-7: Acquisition Of Property For Public Use
4-1-8: Mutual Aid Agreements
4-1-9: Emergency Interim Succession
4-1-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS; PURPOSE:
   A.   The board of county commissioners finds that existing and increasing
threats of the occurrence of destructive disasters resulting from attack,
internal disturbance, natural phenomena or technological hazard could greatly
affect the health, safety and welfare of the people of this county, and it is
therefore necessary to grant to the board of county commissioners special
emergency disaster authority. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 63K-4-101
et seq., the board of county commissioners is authorized to carry out the
measures as may be ordered by the governor under Utah Code Annotated section
63K-4-101 et seq., as amended.
   B.   It is the purpose of this chapter to assist the county commission to
effectively provide emergency disaster response and recovery assistance in
order to protect the lives and property of the people of this county. (1998
Code § 8.30.011; amd. 2010 Code)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ATTACK: A nuclear, conventional, biological or chemical warfare action against
the United States of America, or this state.
DISASTER: A situation causing, or threatening to cause, widespread damage,
social disruption, or injury or loss of life or property resulting from attack,
internal disturbance, natural phenomenon or technological hazard.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: The formal plan compiled by the emergency manager
and approved by the county commission, providing emergency operations
procedures to be used during a disaster.
INTERNAL DISTURBANCE: Riot, prison break, disruptive terrorism or strike.
LOCAL EMERGENCY: A condition in any area of the county which requires that
emergency assistance be provided by the county or the affected political
subdivision to save lives and protect property within its jurisdiction in
response to a disaster, or to avoid or reduce the threat of a disaster.
NATURAL PHENOMENON: Any earthquake, tornado, storm, flood, landslide,
avalanche, forest or range fire, drought or epidemic.
TECHNOLOGICAL HAZARD: Any hazardous materials accident, mine accident, truck
wreck, air crash, radiation incident, pollution, chemical weapons incident,
structural fire or explosion. (1998 Code § 8.30.012)
4-1-3: EMERGENCY DISASTER COUNCIL CREATED:
   A.   Created: An emergency disaster council is created to provide advice to
the board of county commissioners on matters relating to local government
emergency disaster response and recovery actions.
   B.   Membership: The emergency disaster council is comprised of the
following:
      1.   County commissioners;
      2.   Emergency manager;
      3.   Sheriff;
      4.   Public works director;
      5.   Health department representative;
      6.   County assessor;
      7.   County recorder;
      8.   County treasurer;
      9.   County clerk/auditor;
      10.   County building official;
      11.   Others as appointed by the commission.
   C.   Chairperson: The county director of emergency management shall serve on
the emergency disaster council as chairperson.
   D.   Meetings: The council shall meet at the direction of the board of
county commissioners. (1998 Code § 8.30.013)
4-1-4: EMERGENCY DECLARATION:
   A.   Local Emergency Declaration:
      1.   A "local emergency declaration" may be declared by the chairperson
of the board of county commissioners if the chairperson finds a disaster has
occurred, or the occurrence or threat of a disaster is imminent in any area of
the county in which county government response or recovery is required or
assistance is required to supplement the response and recovery of any
subdivision of the county. The local emergency declaration shall not be
continued or renewed for a period in excess of thirty (30) days, except by or
with the consent of the board of county commissioners. All declarations or
orders issued under this chapter shall include:
         a.   The nature of the "local emergency";
         b.   The area or areas being threatened;
         c.   The conditions creating such an emergency or those conditions
allowing termination of the "local emergency";
         d.   The number or quantity of resources or assistance needed.
      2.   Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a
"local emergency" shall be filed promptly with the county clerk/auditor. When
the chairperson of the board of county commissioners or the board of county
commissioners declares a disaster or emergency, the county's emergency response
will operate as outlined in the county emergency operations plan. (1998 Code §
8.30.014)
   B.   County Political Subdivisions Declaration Of Local Emergency:
      1.   A declaration of "local emergency" by any political subdivision of
the county is official recognition that a disaster situation exists within the
affected political subdivision and provides a legal basis for requesting and
obtaining state or federal government disaster assistance.
      2.   Notice of any "local emergency" declared by any political
subdivision shall be promptly delivered to the county emergency manager, or any
member of the board of county commissioners.
      3.   The board of county commissioners shall provide the requested
assistance and resources. If the county cannot provide such requested
assistance, the county shall declare a "local emergency".
      4.   The county emergency manager shall direct the request for assistance
to the state comprehensive emergency management, following a county local
emergency declaration, coordinate other local agency assistance and available
resources.
      5.   During any disaster where local, state or federal assistance is
required, the county emergency manager shall direct and coordinate such
assistance.
      6.   All requests for outside assistance and resources shall be
coordinated through the emergency manager.
      7.   If more than one municipality and/or the county declares a local
emergency during the same period of time, a "unified command committee" shall
be formed. The "unified command committee" shall include a representative from
each of the affected jurisdictions they represent. The representatives shall
have the authority to make decisions for the jurisdiction they represent. (1998
Code § 8.30.015)
4-1-5: AUTHORITY AND POWER OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
The board of county commissioners, during the declared "local emergency", is
authorized and empowered to:
   A.   Enact laws, rules, and regulations; or suspend any law, rule, or
regulation when necessary to save human life and protect property;
   B.   Utilize all available resources as reasonably necessary to cope with
the emergency;
   C.   Suspend county rules regarding overtime restrictions and personnel use,
allowing department heads to utilize personnel as necessary to answer the
challenges the emergency presents to each department;
   D.   Employ measures and give directions to county and local officials and
agencies which are reasonable and necessary for the purpose of securing
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and with orders, rules and
regulations made pursuant to this chapter;
   E.   Approve and advise the evacuation of all or part of the population from
a stricken or threatened area within the county if necessary for the
preservation of life;
   F.   Approve routes, modes of transportation and destination in connection
with evacuation;
   G.   In connection with evacuation, suspend or limit the sale, dispensing or
transportation of alcoholic beverages, explosives and combustibles, or other
hazardous materials;
   H.   Control ingress and egress to and from a disaster area, the movement of
persons within the area, and approve the occupancy or evacuation of premises in
a disaster area;
   I.   Establish curfews for the protection of life and property in the
affected areas;
   J.   Establish price freezes to prohibit the practice of "price gouging" for
items in short supply or high demand in the affected area; establish the ration
of critical supplies necessary to sustain life;
   K.   Clear or remove from publicly or privately owned land or water, debris
or wreckage which may threaten public health or public safety; and
   L.   Establish temporary shelters for the housing of evacuated persons.
(1998 Code § 8.30.016)
4-1-6: ORDERS, RULES, REGULATIONS HAVING FORCE OF LAW:
All orders, rules and regulations promulgated by the board of county
commissioners shall have the full force and effect of law during the "local
emergency", provided a copy thereof is filed with the county clerk/auditor.
(1998 Code § 8.30.017)
4-1-7: ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY FOR PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Upon proclamation of the "local emergency", the board of county
commissioners may purchase or lease public or private property for public use,
including:
      1.   Food;
      2.   Medical supplies;
      3.   Clothing;
      4.   Shelter;
      5.   Means of transportation;
      6.   Fuels and oils; and
      7.   Buildings or land.
   B.   Such purchases under authority of this section may be used for any
purpose to meet the needs of an emergency, including its use to relieve want,
distress and disease. (1998 Code § 8.30.018)
4-1-8: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The board of county commissioners is authorized to execute an interlocal
agreement or compact on behalf of this county with any county or municipality
concerning matters relating to a disaster affecting or likely to affect this
county. (1998 Code § 8.30.019)
4-1-9: EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as the EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION
ACT. (1998 Code § 8.30.021)
   B.   Definitions: The following words and phrases used in this section shall
have the following meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context:
    ABSENT: Physically not present or not able to be communicated with; does
not include a person who can be reached by telephone, radio or other
communications methods.
   EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated by the officer who, in his
or her absence, can exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the officer
when he or she is absent. (1998 Code § 8.30.022)
   C.   Emergency Interim Succession Procedure:
      1.   On January 1 of each year, each department head, with the exception
of the county commissioners, shall:
         a.   Designate three (3) qualified emergency interim successors from
within his or her department who meet the constitutional qualifications for the
office, if any;
         b.   Specify the order of their succession;
         c.   Provide a list of those designated successors to the emergency
manager.
      2.   If any department head is unavailable following a "disaster" or
"local emergency", and if his or her deputy, if any, is not available, a
designated emergency interim successor shall exercise the powers and duties of
the office according to the order of succession specified by the officer.
      3.   Emergency interim successors shall exercise the powers of the office
which they succeeded only when a disaster has occurred or has been declared:
         a.   Successors may only serve for thirty (30) days after the date of
the local emergency declaration, unless approved by the board of county
commissioners.
         b.   Extension of emergency powers shall be by the authority of the
board of county commissioners and only during the time of the disaster and
recovery operations.
         c.   Decisions of the chairperson or his or her successor are final.
      4.   Emergency succession of the chairperson of the board of county
commissioners shall proceed as follows when a disaster response is occurring or
imminent:
         a.   The chairperson shall serve, if available.
         b.   If the chairperson is unavailable, the designated county
commissioner succession shall prevail, i.e., in alphabetical order according to
county seat designation, being A, B or C seat.
         c.   If no commissioner is available, the designated emergency interim
successors shall exercise the powers and duties of the office only until:
            (1)   The vacancy is filled in accordance with the constitution or
statutes; or
            (2)   A commissioner or commissioners in office become available to
exercise the powers and duties of the office. (1998 Code § 8.30.023)
CHAPTER 2
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
4-2-2: Curfew For Minors
4-2-3: Prohibitions Concerning Synthetic Cannabinoids
4-2-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah criminal code, Utah Code Annotated title
76, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor
or class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the county. Any and all
violations thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such
violation shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code)
4-2-2: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   Definitions:
COMPULSORY   A person between six (6) and eighteen (18) years of age that is not exempted from
SCHOOL AGE   attending a public or regularly established private school during the school year of
MINOR:       the district in which the minor resides pursuant to Utah Compulsory Education
             Requirements, Utah Code Annotated 53A-11-101 to 106.
             An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state that calls for
EMERGENCY:   immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, natural
             disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to
             prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMEN Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to which the public is
T:           invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment.
                a.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of a minor; or
GUARDIAN:       b.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a court
             order.
MINOR:       Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPEN CAMPUS: When a compulsory school age minor is allowed by school officials to leave school
             for lunch purposes.
             Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation operating, managing,
OPERATOR:    or conducting any establishment. The term includes the members or partners of an
             association or partnership and the officers of a corporation.
             A person who is:
PARENT:         a.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person; or
                b.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
             to have the care and custody of a minor.
             Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the public has access and
PUBLIC       includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and the common area of schools,
PLACE:       hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, public transit buses and property,
             and shops.
             To:
REMAIN:         a.   Linger or stay; or
                b.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer or the
             owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS      Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death or that causes death, serious
BODILY       permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any
INJURY:      bodily member or organ.
TRUANCY      Those hours in which school is in session and a compulsory school age youth should
HOURS:       be attending school in the district or jurisdiction in which the student attends
             school.
 
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   Hours Prohibited; Exception:
         a.   It is unlawful for minor persons under fifteen (15) years of age
to be in or on any sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the county
between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., immediately
following, either on foot or in a motor vehicle.
         b.   It is unlawful for minor persons under eighteen (18) years of age
to be in or on any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the
county between twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
immediately following, either on foot or in a motor vehicle.
         c.   It is unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18), who
is subject to compulsory education or to compulsory continuation education,
alone or in concert with others, be present in or upon the public streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public
places, public buildings, places of amusement and eating establishments, vacant
lots or any place open to the public, or in a restricted dwelling within the
county during truancy hours.
   C.   Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this section
that the minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         b.   On an emergency errand at the direction of the minor's parent or
guardian, without any detour or stop;
         c.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate or intrastate travel
with permission of the minor's parent or guardian;
         d.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         e.   Involved in an emergency;
      f.   Following school policy regarding open campus for lunch;
         g.   Previously granted an exemption from compulsory education under
section 53A-11-102, or 102.5 U.C.A.;
         h.   The thirty (30) minute period immediately prior to or following
an official school, religious, or other recreational or community activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by the County, a civic organization, or
another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender for identification
documentation, age and reason for being in the public place. The officer shall
not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer
reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any
response and other circumstances, no defense in subsection C of this section is
present.
   E.   Penalties: A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty
of a class C misdemeanor for each day or part of a day during which the
violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction,
is punishable by a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and any other
sanctions provided by law and determined appropriate by the Court.
   F.   Jurisdiction: A violation under this section by an adult shall be
considered to be in violation of section 53A-11-101 U.C.A. for purposes of
jurisdiction and the juvenile Court shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the
Justice Court for purposes of adjudication of allegations hereunder. (Ord. 15-
346, 11-30-2015)
4-2-3: PROHIBITIONS CONCERNING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS:
   A.   Prohibited Activities: Except as authorized by title 58, chapter 37, of
the Utah code, as amended, it is unlawful for any person to knowingly and
intentionally: 1) produce, manufacture, dispense or 2) possess with intent to
produce, manufacture, or dispense or 3) distribute, or agree, consent, offer,
or arrange to distribute or 4) possess with the intent to distribute or 5)
possess or use synthetic cannabinoids, more specifically identified as follows:
1. 1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole
   Some trade or other names: JWH-018
2. 1-Butyl-3-(1-maphthoyl)indole
   Some trade or other names: JWH-073
3. N-benzylpiperazine
   Some trade or other names: BZP
4. 1-(3-[trifluoromethylphenyl]) piperazine
   Some trade or other names: TFMPP; or
5. Any structurally similar analogs of the substances listed above.
 
   B.   Penalty: A violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor and each
such violation shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Subsequent State Action: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
should the Utah state legislature adopt a statute enacting criminal penalties
for prohibitions set forth in this section, then upon the effective date of
such state statute, this section shall no longer be deemed effective. Any
violations of this section prior to a state statute becoming effective may be
prosecuted. (Ord. 10-285, 9-13-2010)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Enforcement And Administration
4-3-4: Interference Prohibited
4-3-5: Fees For Services
4-3-6: Dogs
4-3-7: Kennels
4-3-8: Rabies Control
4-3-9: Prohibited Acts And Activities
4-3-10: Seizure And Impounding
4-3-11: Penalty
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is established in order to set forth rules and regulations
pertaining to the keeping of dogs and cats within the county. With the increase
in population within the county and a corresponding increase in dogs and cats,
it is in the best interest of the county and its residents to establish certain
rules and regulations concerning the rights and responsibilities of persons
within the county having dogs and cats. (1998 Code § 6.01.010)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, unless it is plainly evident from the context
that a different meaning is intended, the following definitions shall apply:
ANIMAL: Any cat or dog.
ANIMAL AT LARGE: Any animal, whether or not licensed, outside of the real
property of the owner or custodian and not under the physical or verbal control
of the owner, and not under legitimate pursuit by the owner or custodian.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any person designated by Duchesne County as a law
enforcement officer who is qualified to perform such duties under the laws of
this state.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated by a Humane Society or political
subdivision of the state of Utah, for the purpose of impounding or caring for
animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT: An animal on a leash or lead which is held by a person
or attached to a stationary object or confined within a vehicle or confined
upon the real property of the owner or custodian, or is under the physical or
verbal control of the owner, or under legitimate pursuit by the owner or
custodian.
APPROVED ANIMAL RESCUE GROUP: A legal organization established and licensed to
care for animals until they can be adopted or transferred to others for care.
ATTACK: Any biting or attempted biting or other action by an animal which
places a person or another animal in danger of imminent bodily harm.
CAT: Any age feline of the domesticated types.
CUSTODIAN: Any person having the charge, care, custody or control of an animal
which he/she does not own.
DOG: Any Canis familiaris of the domesticated types.
DOMESTICATED ANIMAL: Any animal accustomed to living in or about the habitation
of humans, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, fowl, horses, swine,
cattle, sheep and goats.
EUTHANIZE: Humane killing of an animal.
GUARD DOG: A dog trained and used for the purpose of deterring crime.
KENNEL: Any premises wherein any person keeps four (4) or more dogs and/or four
(4) or more cats, or engages in the business of boarding, breeding, buying,
letting for hire, training for a fee or selling dogs or cats. This definition
shall not apply to the birth of puppies or kittens in a situation which is not
an intentional commercial breeding business so long as the number of dogs or
cats is reduced down to three (3) or less within three (3) months from the
birth of the puppies or kittens.
LEASH OR LEAD: Any chain, rope or device used to restrain an animal.
OWNER: Any person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring one
or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for seven (7) consecutive days or more.
PET SHOP: Any establishment, not part of a kennel, containing cages or
exhibition pens wherein dogs, cats, birds or other pets for sale are kept or
displayed.
PROOF OF STERILIZATION: A written document signed by a veterinarian licensed
under Utah Code Annotated title 58, chapter 28, the veterinary practice act,
stating:
   A.   A specified animal has been sterilized;
   B.   The date on which the sterilization was performed; and
   C.   The location where the sterilization was performed.
QUARANTINE: The isolation of an animal in a substantial enclosure so that the
animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.
RECIPIENT: The person to whom an animal shelter transfers an animal for
adoption.
STERILIZATION DEPOSIT: The portion of a fee charged by an animal shelter to a
recipient or claimant of an unsterilized animal to ensure the animal is timely
sterilized in accordance with an agreement between the recipient or the
claimant and the animal shelter.
STERILIZED: An animal has been surgically altered, either by the spaying of a
female animal or by the neutering of a male animal, so it is unable to
reproduce.
TRANSFER: An animal shelter sells, gives away, places for adoption, or
transfers an animal to a recipient.
VETERINARY CLINIC: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis or treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: An animal:
   A.   With a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked,
to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or other
domestic animals;
   B.   Which attacks a human being or other domestic animal without
provocation. (1998 Code § 6.01.020)
4-3-3: ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Animal Control Officer: There is established the position of animal
control officer within the county. The animal control officer may be a separate
position, or may be a member of the sheriff's office staff designated to be the
animal control officer for the county at the discretion of the board of county
commissioners. (1998 Code § 6.01.030)
   B.   Authority To Enter Premises For Enforcement: In the enforcement of any
provision of this chapter, any police officer or animal control officer is
authorized to enter the premises of any person to take possession of a vicious
animal or animals running at large, when in fresh pursuit of such animal at the
time the animal goes onto the private property not owned by the person owning
or in control of such animal. (1998 Code § 6.01.050)
4-3-4: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder
or prevent any police officer or animal control officer in the discharge of
their duties as herein prescribed.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, interfere with or
obstruct any police officer or animal control officer while engaged in
capturing, securing or taking to the animal shelter any animal or animals
liable to be impounded, or who shall break open or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of any animal control
vehicle or other vehicle used for the collecting of any such animals. (1998
Code § 6.01.070)
4-3-5: FEES FOR SERVICES:
The board of county commissioners shall set fees, if any, for the animal
control services provided by the county. Said fees shall be set by resolution
and reviewed from time to time as to the necessity or amount of said fees.
(1998 Code § 6.01.040)
4-3-6: DOGS:
   A.   Applicability: This section addresses those regulations and issues
specific to dogs. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to exempt dogs and
dog owners from compliance with other sections of this chapter. (1998 Code §
6.03.010)
   B.   Identification:
      1.   Required:
         a.   Any person owning a dog within the county limits shall have
identification on the dog.
         b.   Identification of dogs six (6) months or older shall be
mandatory. The owner of any dog of six (6) months or older shall identify said
dog pursuant to this subsection.
      2.   Exception: The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to dogs
whose owners are nonresidents, temporarily within the county for thirty (30)
days or less, nor to dogs brought into the county for the purpose of
participating in any show; provided, that said dogs are properly licensed or
registered in the jurisdiction where the owner resides.
      3.   Information Required: The information required for identification
shall include the name, address and phone number of the owner.
      4.   Collar, Tag; Implanted Chip: It shall be the duty of the owner or
keeper of any dog to provide a suitable collar or tag for such dog to wear and
to attach thereto the identification required by this subsection. This
requirement for a collar or tag may be alleviated by the use of an implanted
chip with all of the required information. (1998 Code § 6.03.020)
   C.   Female Dogs In Heat (Season) Running At Large: The owners or custodians
of female dogs shall cause such dogs, when in heat/season, to be penned or
enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other dogs from attacking such female
dog or from being attracted to such female dog. It shall be unlawful for the
owner or custodian of any female dog to cause, permit or allow such dog to be
at large, or to enter upon a street or sidewalk while such female dog is in
copulating heat/season, regardless of lack of knowledge of the offense at the
time it occurs. If the female dog cannot be controlled by the owner during the
copulating heat/season, such dog may be impounded by the animal control
officer. (1998 Code § 6.03.030)
   D.   Dog Noise Disturbance: It is unlawful for any person to harbor, keep or
own within the unincorporated areas of the county, any dog which barks, whines,
howls, or makes other disturbing noises in an excessive, continuous or untimely
fashion, day or night. Any police officer or animal control officer may
apprehend such dog and may cause it to be impounded in the animal shelter. A
second conviction of this subsection by the same dog within a twelve (12) month
period shall be grounds for removal of the dog from the county, which dog will
not be allowed to return. (1998 Code § 6.03.040)
   E.   Dogs In Prohibited Areas:
      1.   Specified:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or to permit any dog,
whether loose, on a leash, or in arms, in or about any establishment or place
of business where food or food products are sold or displayed, including, but
not limited to, restaurants, grocery stores, meat markets, food or vegetable
stores; and
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog to enter or
be in any place of worship during public services; and
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog to enter in
or be upon any public park, cemetery, or other public places where it is posted
that no dogs are allowed.
      2.   Exception: An exception to this subsection shall be for any dog in
training or trained and used for physically handicapped persons, such as dogs
for the blind or hearing impaired. (1998 Code § 6.03.050)
4-3-7: KENNELS 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall operate or maintain a kennel without
first obtaining a permit from the animal control officer.
   B.   Application For Permit; Investigation; Conditions For Issuance: All
applications for permits to operate or maintain a kennel shall be submitted in
writing, upon printed forms provided for such purposes by the county. The
application shall first be referred to the county planning official for zoning
approval. Upon receiving zoning approval, the application is submitted to the
county animal control officer for inspection of the premises for compliance
with the minimum standards as set forth in subsection D of this section. Upon
approval, the county shall issue the permit upon payment of the fee herein
provided.
   C.   Location Conditions: Before the permit can be issued, the following
conditions concerning the location of the kennel must be met:
      1.   The location where the dogs or cats are kept, raised, housed or
boarded must be at least two hundred feet (200') away from any neighboring
house; and
      2.   Must be at least one hundred fifty feet (150') from any road right
of way line.
   D.   Minimum Standards: The following minimum standards shall be complied
with to obtain and maintain a kennel permit:
      1.   Enclosure must be provided which shall allow adequate protection
against weather extremes. Floors of buildings, runs and walls shall be of an
appropriate material as required by the specific breed of animal, and also to
permit proper cleaning and disinfecting.
      2.   Adequate ventilation shall be maintained and an appropriate
temperature provided as required by the specific breed of animal housed
therein.
      3.   Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand up, lie down and
turn around without touching the sides or tops of cages.
      4.   Runs shall provide an adequate exercise area and protection from the
weather.
      5.   All animal quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry and in a
sanitary condition.
      6.   Food shall be free of contamination, palatable and of sufficient
nutritive value as to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and
size of the animal.
      7.   Fresh water is to be available at all times. Water vessels shall be
mounted or secured in a manner that prevents tipping and be of the removable
type. (1998 Code § 6.04.010)
   E.   Fee For Permit; Additional License: Any person conducting, operating or
maintaining a kennel shall pay to the county for the privilege of conducting,
operating or maintaining such kennel an annual permit fee, as established by
county resolution, for each calendar year. If the kennel engages in the
business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or
selling dogs or cats, the owner or operator shall also obtain a county business
license. (1998 Code § 6.04.030)
   F.   Sanitation; Citation: It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of any
premises on which a kennel, run or other structure or area for housing or
keeping of dogs or cats is situated, to allow such kennel, run or other
structure or area of the premises to become unsanitary or unclean, or to emit
undue stench or odor. The owner or occupant of any premises permitting any such
condition to exist that does not abate such condition within twenty four (24)
hours after notice shall be issued a citation. If such a notice is given, the
condition must remain abated on a permanent basis. Additional notices shall not
be necessary prior to the issuance of a citation. (1998 Code § 6.04.020)
   G.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the animal control officer or
police officer to periodically inspect all registered kennels to see that the
provisions of this section pertaining to the sanitation and care of such places
are being observed. (1998 Code § 6.04.050)
   H.   Preexisting Conditions: This section is retroactive. Those who would be
required to have a kennel permit under this section shall not be considered
having a preexisting condition that would entitle them to a grandfather right,
except as to the distance standards in subsection C of this section. (1998 Code
§ 6.04.060)
   I.   Revocation Of Permit: Whenever the animal control officer or police
officer finds or discovers any violations of any rule or regulation promulgated
as herein provided by the county health department, it shall, upon receipt of
such notice, immediately notify the owner or custodian of such kennel to appear
before the county commission at a day and time certain to show cause why the
permit should not be revoked for such violation. (1998 Code § 6.04.040)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-6-1, "Table Of Uses", of this code for permitted zoning districts.
4-3-8: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Vaccination And Tag Required:
      1.   Vaccination: Dog and cat owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination
for each dog or cat they own, keep, harbor or have custody of, within ten (10)
days after it becomes four (4) months of age, or within ten (10) days after
obtaining any dog or cat over four (4) months of age. It shall be unlawful for
any person or persons to own, keep, harbor, possess or to have in his or her
care, charge or custody, any dog or cat four (4) months of age or older, unless
such dog or cat has had a current and valid rabies vaccination. Such
vaccination shall be administered by any duly qualified and licensed
veterinarian, with a rabies vaccine approved by the state department of health
for use in dogs and cats, and shall be repeated at intervals specified by the
state department of health in order to maintain adequate immunity.
      2.   Tag: In addition to the required identification, the vaccination tag
shall be attached to or otherwise worn by the dog or cat. It shall be unlawful
for any person or persons to remove or cause to be removed the vaccination tag
from any dog or cat without the consent of the owner, keeper or harborer
thereof. The vaccination tag shall not be transferable from one dog or cat to
another. (1998 Code § 6.05.070)
   B.   Reporting Requirements:
      1.   Bites: All persons bitten and the parents or guardians of minor
children bitten by a dog, cat, skunk, fox, bat, coyote, bobcat, or other animal
known to constitute a serious threat of rabies, shall notify the animal control
officer immediately thereafter. Physicians treating such bites and other
persons having the knowledge of such bites shall also be required to make such
notification. (1998 Code § 6.05.010)
      2.   Suspected Rabid Animals: Any person who observes or has knowledge of
an animal which shows symptoms of rabies or which acts in a manner which would
lead to a reasonable suspicion that it may have rabies shall notify the animal
control officer and comply with appropriate laws and regulations regarding
suspected cases of rabies as directed by the state or county health
departments. (1998 Code § 6.05.020)
   C.   Isolation; Quarantine:
      1.   Biting Or Suspected Rabid Animals:
         a.   Upon the reasonable order of the animal control or public health
officer, a biting or suspected rabid animal shall be isolated, at the owner's
expense if owned, in strict confinement under proper care and under the
observation of a licensed veterinarian in an animal shelter or veterinary
hospital in a manner approved by the animal control officer. (1998 Code §
6.05.030)
         b.   Whenever any animal attacks or bites a person, the owner of the
animal shall immediately notify the police department, which shall cause the
animal to be impounded or otherwise quarantined for a period of ten (10) days.
At the end of the ten (10) day quarantine period, the animal may be released
from quarantine, upon a veterinarian's examination that such animal is free
from rabies. The expenses incurred in the inspection of such animal shall be
paid by the owner or person in control of such animal, in addition to any other
fines or charges due. Such expenses shall be paid prior to the release of the
animal. If the animal dies within the ten (10) day quarantine period, its brain
shall be sent to the state department of health for examination for rabies.
(1998 Code § 6.01.080)
      2.   Animals Possibly Exposed To Rabies: Any animal of a species subject
to rabies which has been bitten by a known rabid animal, or which has been in
intimate contact with such an animal, shall be isolated, at the owner's expense
if owned, in strict confinement in a place and manner approved by the animal
control officer and observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of six (6)
months, or euthanized. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following alternative
is permitted in case of dogs and cats. If the dog or cat has been vaccinated
against rabies at least thirty (30) days prior to the suspected exposure with a
type of vaccine produced under USDA license and within the time period approved
by the state veterinarian, the dog or cat may be revaccinated and isolated in
strict confinement in a place and manner approved by the animal control officer
and observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of thirty (30) days. (1998
Code § 6.05.060)
   D.   Release: Ten (10) days after the day of infliction of a bite by an
animal, such animal may be released to its owner after a licensed veterinarian
has examined that animal and in his/her opinion found it not to have had rabies
in a transmittable stage on the day of infliction of the bite. Nonimmunized
animals shall be vaccinated for rabies before release. (1998 Code § 6.05.050)
   E.   Examination Of Head: Any biting or suspected rabid animal may be
humanely euthanized immediately and such animal's undamaged and properly
packaged and properly refrigerated head shall be delivered promptly to an
approved medical facility having the capability of performing tests to
demonstrate the presence of rabies. (1998 Code § 6.05.040)
4-3-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Abandoning Animals: It is unlawful for any person to abandon or to turn
out at large any sick, diseased or disabled animal, or any unwanted animal. Any
such animal, when rendered worthless by reason of sickness or other disability,
or is unwanted, shall be disposed of by the owner thereof. (1998 Code §
6.02.010)
   B.   Disposal Of Animals: It is unlawful for the owner of any animal or fowl
that die or are killed within the limits of this county, to fail to remove or
bury the carcass of such animal within thirty six (36) hours after its death.
(1998 Code § 6.02.030)
   C.   Cruelty To Animals:
      1.   Except as authorized by law, it shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully or maliciously kill, injure, maim, disfigure, torture, beat, mutilate,
burn or scald, drive over or otherwise cruelly act against any animal. Each
such act shall constitute a separate violation and shall be a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1998 Code § 6.02.030; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or to confine any
animals in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner, including, but
not limited to, carrying or confining such animal without adequate ventilation.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the county to, in
any manner whatsoever, encourage or urge any animal to fight, or to urge them
on after they commence to fight. (1998 Code § 6.02.030)
   D.   Running At Large: It shall be unlawful for any animal to be at large at
any time within the unincorporated limits of the county. The owner or custodian
of any animal which is at large shall be in violation of this subsection,
regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the escape of the dog and
regardless of lack of knowledge of the offense at the time it occurs. (1998
Code § 6.02.040)
   E.   Detention Of Animals: It is unlawful for any person to detain or hold
the animal of another without notifying the animal control officer or law
enforcement agency. (1998 Code § 6.02.050)
   F.   Animal Bites And Vicious Animals:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any animal to bite or attack any person or
domestic animal. It is no defense that the animal is chained or confined if the
chaining or confining is on public or private property where the public has
access to be on such property. The owner or custodian of any animal is in
violation of this subsection regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the
bite or attack and regardless of the lack of knowledge of the offense at the
time it occurs.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to keep, own, harbor or have the
control of any vicious animal. It is prima facia evidence that an animal is a
vicious animal if it bites or attacks a person or domestic animal. Any police
officer or animal control officer may apprehend such animal and may cause it to
be impounded at the animal shelter. (1998 Code § 6.02.060)
   G.   Defecation And Urination: It is unlawful to allow an animal to defecate
or urinate upon public property, recreation areas, or private property not
owned by the person owning or in control of such animal. The owner or custodian
of any animal shall be responsible for the removal of any defecation deposited
by such animal on such property. (1998 Code § 6.02.070)
   H.   Threatening Passersby: It shall be unlawful for any animal to threaten
passersby by nipping, jumping upon, attacking, or chasing any person, bicycle
or motor vehicle. (1998 Code § 6.02.080)
4-3-10: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Intraseizure Of Animals:
      1.   Whenever a police officer or an animal control officer shall have
probable cause to believe that an animal has been abandoned, although confined
upon private property, or is a vicious animal, the officer shall be authorized
to immediately seize the animal and may impound the same in the animal shelter,
and such officer shall have the right to enter upon whatever premises the
animal may be kept for such purpose.
      2.   If an animal is summarily impounded without the knowledge of the
owner or custodian, a notice that the animal has been impounded shall be given
to the owner or custodian of the animal, if the same is known, by attaching the
notice to the door at the residence thereof, or by mailing a notice to the last
known address of the owner or custodian.
      3.   If no response is received to the notice of summary impoundment
within the time frames established by the rules and regulations of the state,
such animal shall be adopted, released to a rescue group or euthanized.
      4.   An animal summarily impounded as provided in this subsection may be
recovered by the owner complying with the regulations of the animal shelter. If
it is determined in a subsequent court proceeding that the animal is not
abandoned, vicious or a nuisance, the animal shall be released to the owner or
custodian without any charge. (1998 Code § 6.01.060)
   B.   Impound:
      1.   The animal control officer may apprehend and impound any animal
found at large within the county. Any person apprehending any animal running at
large on his/her property may deliver the same to any county police officer or
animal control officer, which animal may then be impounded in the animal
shelter and such person shall sign a release form.
      2.   Any animal impounded at an animal shelter having owner
identification shall be held five (5) working days after notice of impoundment
is given. After five (5) working days, if the animal is not claimed by its
owner or owner's agent, it shall be released to an approved rescue group,
adopted or euthanized.
      3.   Any animal impounded at an animal shelter having no owner
identification shall be held three (3) working days. After three (3) working
days, if the animal is not claimed, it shall be released to an approved rescue
group, adopted or euthanized.
      4.   Any owner or custodian of an animal wishing to voluntarily
relinquish said animal to the animal control officer or an animal shelter shall
sign a release form and the animal shall be released to an approved rescue
group, adopted or euthanized.
      5.   The animal control officer, peace officer or veterinarian shall have
the sole discretion to determine serious injury or disease that will require
euthanasia prior to three (3) working days.
      6.   All owners or owners' agents claiming an animal shall pay fees
established by county resolution.
      7.   Each animal adopted from the county shelter shall be required to be
sterilized as required by state law. (1998 Code § 6.01.090)
4-3-11: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specifically provided, every person whose animal violates any
provision of this chapter is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1998 Code § 6.01.100)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Sales And Use Of Fireworks Unlawful
4-4-2: Public Displays; Permit Required
4-4-3: Application For Permit
4-4-4: Bond May Be Required
4-4-5: Exceptions
4-4-6: Penalty
4-4-1: SALES AND USE OF FIREWORKS UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Declaration: The sale, exposure for sale, use, distribution or
possession of fireworks or pyrotechnics within the county, except as
hereinafter provided, is declared by the board of county commissioners to be
against the public health, safety and welfare of the people of the county.
(1998 Code § 8.04.010)
   B.   Prohibited Sales And Use: It is unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership or corporation to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell, possess or
use, or explode any toy cannon in which explosives are used; the type of
balloon which requires fire underneath to propel the same; firecrackers;
torpedoes, sky rockets, roman candles, bombs or other fireworks of like
construction, or any fireworks containing any explosive or inflammable compound
or any tablets, or other device commonly used and sold as fireworks containing
nitrates, chlorates, exalates, sulphides of lead, barium, antimony, arsenic,
mercury, nitroglycerine, phosphorus or any compound containing any of the same
or other explosives, or any substance or combination of substances, or articles
prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, other than aviation and
railroad signal light flares, except as in this chapter provided; provided,
further, this chapter shall not prohibit the use of toy pistols, toy canes, toy
guns or sparklers. (1998 Code § 8.04.020)
4-4-2: PUBLIC DISPLAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
The board of county commissioners, notwithstanding any of the provisions of
this chapter to the contrary, may, upon application in writing, upon the
posting of a suitable bond, grant a permit for the public display of fireworks
by religious, fraternal or civic organizations, fair associations, amusement
parks, or other organizations or groups of individuals, approved by the board
of county commissioners, when such display is to be handled by a competent
operator, to be approved by the county sheriff or the county fire chief. Such
display shall be of such a character, and so located, discharged or fired, as
in the opinion of the county sheriff and the county fire chief, after proper
inspection, shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or
persons. After such permit shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and
distribution of fireworks for such display shall be lawful for that purpose
only. (1998 Code § 8.04.030)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All such applications for permits shall set forth the date, the hour, and place
of making such display, and the place of storing fireworks prior to the
display; and further, the name or names of the person, persons, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or group of individuals making the
display; and the name of person or persons, in charge of the igniting, firing,
setting off, exploding or causing to be exploded such fireworks. The location
of the storage place shall be subject to the approval of the county sheriff and
the county fire chief. No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable. (1998
Code § 8.04.040)
4-4-4: BOND MAY BE REQUIRED:
Liability insurance in the amount of at least one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) is required to cover all damages, which may be caused either to a
person or persons, or to property, by reason of the display so, as aforesaid,
licensed, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents or
employees. Such bond shall run to the county and shall be for the use and
benefit of any person injured or the owner of any property damaged, who is
authorized to maintain an action thereon, or his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, successors or assigns. (1998 Code § 8.04.050; amd. 2010 Code)
4-4-5: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with the manufacture,
storage or transportation of fireworks by any licensed manufacturer,
wholesaler, dealer or jobber selling at wholesale without the county, or to
religious, fraternal, or civic organizations, fair associations, amusement
parks, or other organizations or groups of individuals within the county
authorized to possess and use fireworks under this chapter; or the sale or use
of any fireworks or blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal
purposes in athletic sports, or by railroads for signal purposes, or for use by
the militia; or construed to prohibit the manufacture and sale of aviation and
railroad light flares. (1998 Code § 8.04.060)
4-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class
B misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1998 Code § 8.04.070; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 6
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-6-1: Title And Purpose
4-6-2: Applicability
4-6-3: Definitions
4-6-4: Plan Submitted To State
4-6-5: Protection Zones Established
4-6-6: Permitted Uses
4-6-7: Prohibited Uses
4-6-8: Dispute Procedure
4-6-9: Administration And Enforcement
4-6-10: Appeals
4-6-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter shall be known as the DUCHESNE COUNTY DRINKING WATER
SOURCE PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and
sanitary drinking water supply to the residents of the county, by the
establishment of drinking water source protection zones surrounding the wells
and springs used by public drinking water systems in the unincorporated areas
of the county, and by the designation and regulation of property uses and
conditions that may be maintained within such zones. Included under this
chapter are those source protection zones falling within unincorporated areas
of the county, associated with public drinking water sources not owned or
operated by the county. (Ord. 09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-2: APPLICABILITY:
The applicability of this chapter extends to both incorporated and
unincorporated sections of the county, unless an incorporated municipality
within the county enacts an ordinance in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 10-8-15 and/or 19-4-113. (Ord. 09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
systems and sources for a subject property.
DESIGN STANDARD: Established state or national standards for the design,
construction, placement or maintenance from a potential contamination source to
prevent discharges to the groundwater. An example of a design standard is
"secondary containment", as defined in this section.
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONE: The specified surface and subsurface
area surrounding a groundwater source of drinking water supplying a public
water supply, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward
and reach such groundwater source.
PERMITTED USE: A land use, activity or practice that does not create a risk of
contamination or a relatively low risk of contamination in the specified
drinking water source protection zone.
POLLUTION SOURCE: A. Point source discharges of contaminants to groundwater or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances",
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities", as specified in SARA title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain
fields, class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps, landfilling
of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, drain line and
animal feeding operations with more than one hundred (100) animal units.
   B.   The following definitions are part of R309-600 and clarify the meaning
of "pollution source":
      1.   Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: Animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period, and crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
      2.   Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder
cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses
multiplied by 2.0.
      3.   Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are
identified in the section 302 (EHS) column of the "Title III List Of Lists:
Consolidated List Of Chemicals Subject To The Emergency Planning And Community
Right To Know Act (EPCRA) And Section 112(R) Of The Clean Air Act, As Amended"
(550B98017). A copy of this document may be obtained from: NCEPI, PO Box 42419,
Cincinnati, OH 45202. Online ordering is also available at:
http://www.epa.gov/ncepilhom/orderpub/html.
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility, use or site that employs an
activity or procedure which may potentially contaminate groundwater, whether it
currently does or not. A pollution source is also a potential contamination
source.
PROHIBITED USES: A land use, activity or practice that creates a substantial
risk of contamination in the specified drinking water source protection zone.
Such uses are not permitted.
PROTECTED AQUIFER: A producing aquifer in which the following conditions are
met:
   A.   A naturally protective layer of clay, at least thirty feet (30') in
thickness, is present above the aquifer;
   B.   The public drinking water system provides data to indicate the lateral
continuity of the clay layer to the extent of zone 2; and
   C.   The public supply well is grouted with a grout seal that extends from
the ground surface down to at least one hundred feet (100') below the surface,
and for a thickness of at least thirty feet (30') through the protective clay
layer.
PUBLIC DRINKING WATER SYSTEM: A water system, either publicly or privately
owned, providing water for human consumption and other domestic uses, which:
   A.   Has at least fifteen (15) service connections; or
   B.   Serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily at
least sixty (60) days of the year. A public water system consisting of at least
eight (8) residential service connections shall be deemed to serve twenty five
(25) individuals.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency (local, state and/or federal) with
jurisdiction over drinking water, pollution sources, potential contamination
sources and hazardous substances, as defined herein.
SECONDARY CONTAINMENT: A type of system or design standard that is used to
provide release detection and prevention, such as trays under containers, floor
curbing or other systems designed to hold materials or liquids that may
discharge from containers holding a potential contaminant. Examples include a
double walled tank, a double walled integral piping system, or a single walled
tank or integral piping system that is protected by an enclosed concrete vault,
liner, or an impervious containment area.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAIN FIELD SYSTEMS: A wastewater system, which is comprised of a
septic tank and a drain field, which accepts wastewater from buildings or
facilities for surface or subsurface treatment and disposal.
TIME OF TRAVEL DISTANCE: The distance that groundwater will travel in a
specified time. This distance is generally a function of the permeability and
slope of the aquifer. Time of travel is determined from hydrological studies
and is approved by the state department of environmental quality, division of
drinking water.
UNPROTECTED AQUIFER: Any aquifer that does not meet the definition of a
"protected aquifer", as defined in this section.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord. 09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-4: PLAN SUBMITTED TO STATE:
It shall be the responsibility of the public drinking water systems of the
county to submit a drinking water source protection plan to the state division
of drinking water pursuant to state administrative rule. Once the division of
drinking water has accepted said plan, the public drinking water system or the
division of drinking water shall provide the county with electronic data and
maps showing the drinking water source protection zones that have been
established. (Ord. 09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-5: PROTECTION ZONES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Described: There are hereby established use districts to be known as
drinking water source protection zones as identified and described below:
      1.   Zone 1 is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius from a
wellhead or spring source.
      2.   Zone 2 is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day groundwater
time of travel distance to a wellhead or spring source, the boundary of the
aquifer which supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater
divide, whichever is closer, as specified on the drinking water source
protection zone map on file with the county.
   B.   Boundaries; Map: The boundaries of the drinking water source protection
zones are shown on the drinking water source protection zone map on file with
the county, which is incorporated and made a part of this chapter by reference.
Due to the sensitivity of such data, the map shall be made available only
through a GRAMA request. It shall be the responsibility of the public drinking
water system to notify the county and the culinary water authority of any
amendments to these maps. (Ord. 09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-6: PERMITTED USES:
The following land uses shall be permitted within drinking water source
protection zones:
   A.   Any land use permitted within existing agricultural, residential and
commercial districts, so long as the uses conform to the rules and regulations
of the regulatory agencies and this chapter. Applicable rules include, but are
not limited to, the Utah administrative rule R-309-600 and rules adopted by the
culinary water authority and the environmental protection agency.
   B.   Any other open land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
   C.   Any land use established before the effective date hereof, and uses
incidental and accessory to such use, may be continued in the same manner
thereafter; provided, that such use is not determined by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be a nuisance or health hazard under the provisions of federal,
state and/or local laws or regulations. (Ord. 09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-7: PROHIBITED USES:
The following land uses or conditions established after the effective date
hereof are hereby prohibited within drinking water source protection zones:
   A.   Zone 1 (for all aquifer types): The location of an uncontrolled
"potential contamination source" or pollution sources, as defined in section
4-6-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Zone 2 (in unprotected aquifers): The location of pollution sources, as
defined in section
4-6-3 of this chapter, unless their contaminated discharges are controlled with
design standards which prevent contaminated discharges to groundwater. (Ord.
09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-8: DISPUTE PROCEDURE:
If a party disagrees with the boundaries of a drinking water source protection
zone, such boundaries may be disputed according to the following procedure:
   A.   Applicant submits written comments to the public drinking water system
stating the reasons that the protection zone boundaries are being disputed.
   B.   If the public drinking water system concurs, it may authorize a new
hydrogeologic investigation at the expense of the one disputing the
delineations, or elect to conduct a new hydrogeologic investigation at its own
expense, or by negotiating a sharing of expenses, if it appears that the
boundary was established without considering geologic/hydrogeologic data.
   C.   If the public drinking water system declines to authorize a new
hydrogeologic investigation, the applicant may appeal this determination to the
county commissioners. In the event that the county authorizes a new
investigation, it shall be conducted at the expense of the applicant or at the
negotiated expense of the parties.
   D.   Upon completion, the new hydrogeologic investigation shall be submitted
to the state division of drinking water for review.
   E.   If the division of drinking water finds that the new hydrogeologic
investigation is sufficiently protective and meets the requirements of a
delineation report according to the state drinking water source protection for
groundwater sources rule (Utah administrative code R309-600), the county may
enforce this chapter according to the new hydrogeologic investigation. (Ord.
09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-9: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authorized Officers: The county officers are hereby authorized to take
all action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Administration:
      1.   The policies and procedures for administration of any drinking water
source protection zone established under this chapter, including nonconforming
uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same as provided in
the existing zoning ordinance, as presently enacted and as may be amended after
the effective date hereof. Exception: The applicable land use authority cannot
grant a variance to the requirements of this chapter until the request is
reviewed and the culinary water authority and public drinking water system
provide a recommendation. If it is necessary to have additional expertise to
evaluate the variance, it shall be at the expense of the entity requesting the
variance.
      2.   If there are noncompliant potential contamination sources found in
the drinking water source protection zones that cannot be resolved by the
public drinking water system, such matters shall be referred to the applicable
regulatory agency for enforcement.
   C.   Enforcement By Court: The public drinking water system may seek
enforcement of this chapter in district court if:
      1.   After providing notice of a violation to the county, the county
notifies the public drinking water system within ten (10) working days that it
will not seek enforcement of this chapter; or
      2.   The county does not seek enforcement within two (2) days of notice
of violation stating that the violation may cause irreparable harm to the
groundwater source. (Ord. 09-273, 4-13-2009)
4-6-10: APPEALS:
Any party aggrieved by a decision made by the community development
administrator in the administration of this chapter may appeal to the planning
commission. Appeals of the planning commission may be made to the county
commissioners. Appeals of the county commissioners may be made to the district
court. (Ord. 09-273, 4-13-2009)
CHAPTER 7
WILDLIFE RESOURCES CODE
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: General Provisions
4-7-3: When Spotlighting Is Permissible Or Prohibited
4-7-4: Private Property
4-7-5: Required Permit
4-7-6: Notice
4-7-7: Applicability
4-7-8: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives are defined as follows:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Shall have the same meaning as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 41-6a-102.
SPOTLIGHTING: Casting the rays of any artificial light on any highway, in any
fields, woodland, forest or other land while having in possession a weapon by
which protected wildlife may be killed. (Ord. 16-349, 3-7-2016)
4-7-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   A person may not engage in hunting by means of spotlighting without
first having procured the necessary permit under this chapter and having at the
same time the required permit on his or her person.
   B.   The hunting shall be for coyote, red fox, striped skunk, or raccoon and
no other form of terrestrial or avian wildlife.
   C.   Any artificial light used to spotlight the animal shall be carried by
the hunter.
   D.   A motor vehicle headlight or light attached to or powered by a motor
vehicle may not be used to spotlight the animal; and
   E.   While hunting with the use of an artificial light, the hunter may not
occupy or operate any motor vehicle. (Ord. 16-349, 3-7-2016)
4-7-3: WHEN SPOTLIGHTING IS PERMISSIBLE OR PROHIBITED:
   A.   Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 23-13-17, hunting by means of
spotlighting is only allowed under the following conditions:
      1.   Spotlighting shall not be permitted inside any of the incorporated
areas of Duchesne County.
      2.   Spotlighting is prohibited from August 15 through November 15. (Ord.
16-349, 3-7-2016)
4-7-4: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Hunters shall obtain permission from the landowner before spotlighting on
privately owned lands in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 23-20-14.
(Ord. 16-349, 3-7-2016)
4-7-5: REQUIRED PERMIT:
   A.   Any person wishing to hunt by means of spotlighting must obtain a
spotlighting permit from Duchesne County. A permit may be obtained from the
Duchesne County sheriff or his designee (hereinafter collectively referred to
as sheriff). Permits will be valid for three hundred sixty five (365) days from
the date of issuance. The sheriff may decline to issue a permit to any person
who:
      1.   Is restricted from possessing a firearm under Utah law;
      2.   Has had his/her hunting privileges restricted by the DWR; or
      3.   Any other provision of law that restricts a person's ability to
possess a firearm or hunt.
   B.   The sheriff may rescind an issued permit for any person who would no
longer qualify to obtain a permit or who violates the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 16-349, 3-7-2016)
4-7-6: NOTICE:
Hunters shall notify the Uintah Basin Consolidated Communication Center each
time he/she engages in spotlighting; the hunter will provide the location he/
she intends to spotlight. (Ord. 16-349, 3-7-2016)
4-7-7: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This chapter does not apply to:
      1.   A person or the person's agent who is lawfully acting to protect the
person's crops or domestic animals from predation by those animals; or
      2.   An animal damage control agent acting in the agent's official
capacity under a memorandum of agreement with the division.
   B.   This chapter shall not affect any other provision in the Utah code not
otherwise addressed herein regarding the taking of wildlife, the discharge of a
firearm, or the rights and duties of landowners or hunters. (Ord. 16-349, 3-7-
2016)
4-7-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 16-349, 3-7-2016)
CHAPTER 8
APICULTURE
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Enforcement Officer Designated
4-8-4: Apiaries Registered
4-8-5: Landowner Permission Required
4-8-6: Identification Sign Required
4-8-7: Importation
4-8-8: Apiary Locations
4-8-9: Maximum Apiary Size
4-8-10: Fees
4-8-11: Penalties
4-8-12: Notice Of Violation
4-8-13: Nonexclusive Remedy
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall regulate apiculture in Duchesne County to protect the
general health, safety and welfare of residents and visitors and to promote
efficient use of available resources for agriculture and industry. (Ord. 19-
372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
This chapter shall include the defined terms of Utah State Code section 4-11-
102, as amended, to the extent those terms are used herein. (Ord. 19-372, 5-6-
2019)
4-8-3: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER DESIGNATED:
The Duchesne County bee inspector ("inspector"), appointed pursuant to Utah
Code Annotated section 4-11-105, shall be responsible for any and all
inspections, investigations and identification of violations of this chapter.
All inspections shall be conducted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 4-
11-107 and subject to any fee established by section
4-8-10 of this chapter. The inspector shall have access to all apiaries
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 4-11-110. The inspector may issue
warnings for violation of this chapter. The inspector shall notify the Duchesne
County Sheriff's Department of any violation for which a criminal citation is
sought and shall furnish them with a written report detailing and documenting
the violation along with any pictures, video or other documentation of the
violation. The Sheriff shall issue citations as they deem appropriate. (Ord.
19-372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-4: APIARIES REGISTERED:
No person or entity shall maintain an apiary in Duchesne County unless it is
registered, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 4-11-104. (Ord. 19-372, 5-
6-2019)
4-8-5: LANDOWNER PERMISSION REQUIRED:
No apiary shall be kept or located upon the property of another without the
apiary owner or the person in possession of the apiary first procuring from the
landowner permission to place the apiary thereon, and upon request, written
evidence of such permission shall be furnished to the inspector. (Ord. 19-372,
5-6-2019)
4-8-6: IDENTIFICATION SIGN REQUIRED:
All apiaries shall be clearly marked with apiary owner's name and contact
information including a valid phone number and mailing address. Apiaries
belonging exclusively to the owner of the land upon which they are situated
shall be excluded from this requirement. (Ord. 19-372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-7: IMPORTATION:
No person or entity may bring or import any bees in packages or hives into
Duchesne County without first contacting the Duchesne County bee inspector and
providing them with proof of compliance with Utah Code section 4-11-111. (Ord.
19-372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-8: APIARY LOCATIONS:
No owner of apiaries shall have any two (2) apiary sites less than 1.5 miles
apart. (Ord. 19-372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-9: MAXIMUM APIARY SIZE:
No apiary site shall exceed thirty two (32) hives. (Ord. 19-372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-10: FEES:
The Duchesne County Board of Commissioners shall establish fees for any
inspection or destruction of hives and/or apiary sites required pursuant to
this chapter. Failure to pay the required fee is a violation of the provisions
of this chapter and apiaries in violation of this section shall be removed from
the County within forty eight (48) hours. (Ord. 19-372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-11: PENALTIES:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a Class B misdemeanor and
shall be considered a separate violation for each day the violation continues.
(Ord. 19-372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-12: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person or entity maintaining an apiary in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter may be notified by: a) personal service of a
citation or warning, b) having a citation or warning mailed to the address
posted at the apiary site pursuant to section
4-8-6, "Identification Sign Required", of this chapter, c) if no address is
posted pursuant to section
4-8-6, "Identification Sign Required", of this chapter, then citation or
warning may be mailed to the address to which tax notices are sent for the
parcel upon which the apiary is located and by posting a copy of the citation
or warning in a conspicuous place on the apiary for fourteen (14) days. (Ord.
19-372, 5-6-2019)
4-8-13: NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY:
This chapter is an alternative to and does not supersede any other provision of
law that authorizes a nuisance to be abated or enjoined. (Ord. 19-372, 5-6-
2019)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Speed Limits
5-1-2: Traffic Signs
5-1-3: Weight Restrictions
5-1-4: Engine Brakes Prohibited Where Posted
5-1-5: Truck Restrictions On Posted Or Prohibited Roads
5-1-6: Penalty
5-1-1: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle on a county road at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions, and having regard to the
actual and potential hazard then existing.
   B.   Where no special hazard exists, the speed limit on all county roads
shall be forty (40) miles per hour, unless otherwise posted. Any speed in
excess of the posted limit shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is not
reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful. (1998 Code § 10.04.010)
5-1-2: TRAFFIC SIGNS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the county sheriff to cause to be erected, in
conformity with the manual and specifications of the state highway commission,
traffic control devices and traffic signs to regulate, warn and guide traffic
on the roads and highways of this county.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to deface, destroy, demolish or interfere
with any traffic control device or traffic sign installed for the purpose of
directing or regulating traffic in this county. (1998 Code § 10.04.020)
5-1-3: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon public roads or
bridges in this county having a total weight greater than the weight posted on
such roads or bridges. (1998 Code § 10.04.030)
5-1-4: ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED WHERE POSTED:
   A.   The operator of a motor vehicle may not operate the vehicle using an
engine brake where prohibited by an official traffic control device.
   B.   This section shall not apply to emergency driving situations requiring
the utilization of an engine brake to protect the safety and property of the
residents of Duchesne County, or motor vehicle operators, pedestrians, and the
operator and the passengers of a motor vehicle involved in such emergency
situation.
   C.   Signs shall be posted at the appropriate places advising motor vehicle
operators of the prohibition of the use of an engine brake within Duchesne
County.
   D.   Notwithstanding Section
5-1-6 , any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. 25-421, 6-9-2025)
5-1-5:   TRUCK RESTRICTIONS ON POSTED OR PROHIBITED ROADS:
   A.   The operator of a truck shall not operate the truck on any road posted
as prohibited to truck traffic, or use any road in a prohibited manner where
official signs are posted.
   B.   Prohibited uses include, but are not limited to: turning onto a road
where an official traffic control device prohibits such movement or driving on
a road posted as restricted or prohibited.
   C.   Official signage shall be posted at the appropriate locations to inform
truck operators of the restriction.
   D.   For purposes of this section, a “truck” means any vehicle or
combination vehicle licensed or used with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR)
over twenty- six thousand (26,000) pounds or exceeding a total length,
including attached trailer(s), of forty (40) feet or more.
   E.   This section shall not apply to emergency vehicles, authorized local
deliveries, agricultural equipment engaged in local agricultural operations, or
vehicles accessing property within the restricted area when no reasonable
alternative route exists.
   F.   Notwithstanding Section
5-1-6 , any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. 25-424, 7-7-2025)
5-1-6:   PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and subject to penalty as provided in Utah Code Annotated title 41.
(1998 Code § 10.04.040; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SNOW CLOSURES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Authority To Close Roads For Snow Season
5-2-2: Snowmobiles Permitted During Snow Closures
5-2-1: AUTHORITY TO CLOSE ROADS FOR SNOW SEASON:
   A.   The county road supervisor is authorized to officially close county
roads for the snow season to conventional motor vehicle traffic when, in his or
her judgment, it is not practical to provide snow removal.
   B.   The season during which roads may be so closed extends from November 1
through April 30 of each year, and for so long after April 30 until
conventional motor vehicle traffic is practical in the area.
   C.   Official closure for the season to conventional motor vehicle traffic
shall be evidenced by posting of signs indicating closure, or otherwise
advising that "snow removal is not provided", or other signs of caution or
warning based on lack of winter maintenance.
   D.   An official list of roads closed for the season shall be kept in the
office of the county road supervisor. (1998 Code § 10.08.010)
5-2-2: SNOWMOBILES PERMITTED DURING SNOW CLOSURES 1 :
   A.   Upon official closure of roads for the season, as set forth in section
5-2-1 of this chapter, snowmobiles may be operated on such roads pursuant to
the requirements of state law.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to limit use of snowmobiles on
county roads as may otherwise or additionally be allowable under the laws of
this state. (1998 Code § 10.08.020)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: State Regulations Adopted
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: County Roads Open To Off Highway Vehicle Use
5-3-4: Operational Requirements And Equipment For Street Legal All-Terrain
Vehicles
5-3-5: Speed Limit On County Roads
5-3-6: Off Highway Implement Of Husbandry
5-3-7: No Additional Authorizations
5-3-8: Penalty
5-3-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
All references to chapters of Utah Code Annotated specifically referenced in
this chapter are approved and adopted as part of this chapter, except as such
code may be altered or modified by County ordinance. (Ord. 09-275, 7-13-2009)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE I VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle fifty two inches (52") or less in
width, having an unladen dry weight of one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds
or less, traveling on three (3) or more low pressure tires, having a seat
designed to be straddled by the operator, and designed for or capable of travel
over unimproved terrain.
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE II VEHICLE: Any other motor vehicle, not defined as an all-
terrain type I vehicle, motorcycle or snowmobile, designed for or capable of
travel over unimproved terrain. This definition does not include golf carts,
any vehicle designed to carry a disabled person, any vehicle not specifically
designed for recreational use or farm tractors as defined under Utah Code
Annotated section 41-1a-102.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the operator and
designed to travel on not more than two (2) tires.
OFF HIGHWAY IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: Every all-terrain type I vehicle,
motorcycle or snowmobile that is used by the owner or his agent for
agricultural operations.
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any snowmobile, all-terrain type I vehicle, all-terrain
type II vehicle or motorcycle.
OPERATOR: A person with a valid driver's license, who is in actual physical
control of a vehicle.
SNOWMOBILE: Any motor vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice and steered
and supported in whole or in part by skis, belts, cleats, runners or low
pressure tires.
STREET LEGAL ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR STREET LEGAL ATV: Has the same meaning as
defined in Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-102, as amended. (Ord. 09-275, 7-
13-2009)
5-3-3: COUNTY ROADS OPEN TO OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE USE:
   A.   County Class B Roads:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided within this chapter, all Class B roads
are open to street legal all-terrain vehicle and off highway vehicle use.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided within this chapter, all Class B roads
are open for limited off highway vehicle use to allow off highway vehicle users
to gain direct access to or from a private or public area open for off highway
vehicle use.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided within this chapter, the following
Class B roads are closed to off highway vehicle use:
         a.   North Cove Road;
         b.   Wells Draw Road (excluding those portions south of the Five Mile
Draw Road);
         c.   Antelope Canyon Road (excluding those portions south of Township
5 South);
         d.   Sowers Canyon Road (excluding those portions south of Township 5
South);
         e.   Cottonwood Canyon Road (excluding those portions south of
Township 5 South);
         f.   3000 West (aka Hancock Cove Road), between Highway 40 and 4000
North;
         g.   Pariette Road;
         h.   Any County road with a posted speed limit of forty five (45)
miles per hour or higher.
   B.   County Class D Roads: Except as otherwise provided within this chapter,
all Class D roads are open for all general street legal all-terrain vehicles
and off highway vehicle use.
   C.   Restrictions: A person may not use an off highway vehicle upon any
street or highway not designated as open to off highway vehicle use, except:
      1.   When crossing a street or highway and the user comes to a complete
stop before crossing, proceeds only after yielding the right-of-way to oncoming
traffic, and crosses at a right angle;
      2.   When loading or unloading an off highway vehicle from a vehicle or
trailer, which shall be done with due regard for safety, and at the nearest
practical point of operation;
      3.   When an emergency exists, during any period of time and at those
locations when the operation of conventional motor vehicles is impractical or
when the operation is directed by a peace officer or other public authority; or
      4.   As otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord. 18-363, 3-19-2018)
5-3-4: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND EQUIPMENT FOR STREET LEGAL ALL-TERRAIN
VEHICLES:
Except as otherwise provided within this chapter, a street legal all-terrain
vehicle operated on any open County B road, as defined in subsection 5-3-3A of
this chapter, shall comply with Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-1509, as
amended, including, but not limited to, proper licensing, endorsement, and
equipment. (Ord. 09-275, 7-13-2009)
5-3-5: SPEED LIMIT ON COUNTY ROADS:
A person, when using a street legal all-terrain vehicle or off highway vehicle
on any County road, may not exceed the lesser of the established speed limit,
as set forth in section
5-1-1 of this title, or forty five (45) miles per hour. (Ord. 09-275, 7-13-
2009; amd. 2010 Code)
5-3-6: OFF HIGHWAY IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY:
Any off highway vehicle utilized as an off highway implement of husbandry is
exempt from the provisions of this chapter so long as it fully complies with
Utah Code Annotated section 41-22-5.5, as amended. (Ord. 09-275, 7-13-2009)
5-3-7: NO ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS:
Nothing in this chapter may be construed as authorizing, permitting, allowing
or condoning any person to use a street legal all-terrain vehicle or off
highway vehicle outside of the public right-of-way or use a street legal all-
terrain vehicle or off highway vehicle in any unsafe or unlawful manner. (Ord.
09-275, 7-13-2009)
5-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 09-275, 7-13-2009; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY ROADS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Purpose
6-1-2: Roads, Rights Of Way And Easements
6-1-3: Gates And Cattle Guards
6-1-4: Culverts
6-1-5: Utility Easements
6-1-6: Approaches To County Roads
6-1-7: Application Process
6-1-8: Irrigation Water On Public Roads
6-1-9: Penalty
6-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish rules and regulations for the
proper administration of the county roads, rights of way and easements, and to
maximize the benefits to the public from the use of said roads, rights of way
and easements, and minimize the adverse effects on property owners subject to
said roads, rights of way and easements. (1998 Code § 12.04.010)
6-1-2: ROADS, RIGHTS OF WAY AND EASEMENTS:
All roads, rights of way and easements presently designated as county roads and
all such roads, rights of way and easements designated in the future as county
roads shall be free and open for public access except as hereinafter limited.
(1998 Code § 12.04.020)
6-1-3: GATES AND CATTLE GUARDS:
   A.   Permitted: It is unlawful for any landowner to close or restrict any
county roads, rights of way and easements to the general public. The landowner
may install and shall maintain gates and/or cattle guards across the county
roads, rights of way and easements on the terms and conditions set forth in
this section. (1998 Code § 12.04.030)
   B.   Gates: The installation of a gate across the county roads, rights of
way and easements shall be by permit only, and subject to the following terms
and conditions:
      1.   Applications for permit shall be made to the county road department,
pursuant to section
6-1-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Gates shall meet certain specifications as set forth by the road
department.
      3.   The gates shall remain unlocked at all times.
      4.   A gate shall be allowed only if the nature of road traffic on that
particular roadway is such that the existence of a gate across the roadway is
not a major inconvenience to the travelers on the public rights of way. Such
determination shall be reasonable and shall be made by the county commission,
based upon level of traffic and proper compliance with regulations.
      5.   Upon the installation of a gate, if the nature of the traffic on the
roadway changes to the extent that the gate is becoming a hindrance to the
traffic on said roadway, then said gate shall be removed. (1998 Code §
12.04.040)
   C.   Cattle Guards: On those roadways where the traffic is of such nature
that gates are a major inconvenience, the county shall allow the installation
of cattle guards on the following conditions:
      1.   The installation of the cattle guard shall be by permit only, and
obtained as outlined in section
6-1-7 of this chapter.
      2.   The cattle guard proposal shall meet the approval of the road
department.
      3.   The property owner shall provide the cattle guard at the landowner's
expense, together with a four thousand dollar ($4,000.00) fee to cover future
maintenance and repair. Said fee may be waived; provided, that the landowner
enters into an agreement with the county to provide maintenance and repair of
the cattle guard for the period of time that the cattle guard is required.
      4.   If the landowner enters into the agreement to provide maintenance
and repair, and the fee is waived, the landowner shall be responsible for the
repair and maintenance of the cattle guard as needed and/or at the direction of
the county road department supervisor for ten (10) years from the date of
installation, at which time the landowner shall, at his own expense, refurbish
the cattle guard. Upon approval of the supervisor of the county road
department, the county shall assume the responsibility for maintenance. Upon
the expiration of twenty (20) years from the date of installation, the county
shall reevaluate the need for the cattle guard.
      5.   If the cattle guard is not properly maintained or replaced when it
becomes damaged, or it is determined that the cattle guard is no longer
necessary, the county shall have the right to remove said cattle guard from the
roadway. (1998 Code § 12.04.050)
6-1-4: CULVERTS:
Culverts to be placed in the county roads, rights of way and easements shall
meet the specifications set forth by the road department for such culverts. The
county shall provide those culverts necessary in the design of new road
improvement or construction to allow the passage of natural runoffs or
irrigation streams across said road. Any culvert to be placed in the county
road right of way, other than those necessary in the design and construction of
said road, shall be allowed upon proper application to the road department as
set forth in section
6-1-7 of this chapter, and the expense of such culvert installation shall be
borne by the applicant. The applicant shall also be responsible for proper
maintenance of said culvert for a period of two (2) years from the date of
installation. At the expiration of the two (2) years, and if said culvert still
meets county specifications, the county shall assume responsibility for
maintenance of said culvert. (1998 Code § 12.04.060)
6-1-5: UTILITY EASEMENTS:
   A.   Application, Bond Requirements: All utility easements sought within the
county roads, rights of way and easements, including those easements that cross
the highway, shall be granted only upon compliance with the following:
      1.   Proper application describing the nature and extent and location of
the easement which is sought; (1998 Code § 12.04.070)
      2.   The posting of an appropriate bond or cash in the amount set by
resolution. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to repair any
damage to the roadway which occurs during and for two (2) years subsequent to
the installation of the utility in the appropriate easement. Said repairs shall
be made according to the specifications of the road department. (1998 Code §
12.04.070; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Utility Companies: All utility easements sought by a utility company
for the benefit of two (2) or more customers in the same area for easements
within the county roads, rights of way and easements, including those easements
across the highway, shall be granted only upon compliance of the following:
      1.   Proper application prescribing the nature and extent and location of
the easement which is sought;
      2.   Posting of the appropriate bond in the amount to be set by the
county commission. The amount of said bond shall be that amount which would be
necessary to cover the costs of damages to the road as the result of the
installation of the utility across the road or in the rights of way and
easements of the county;
      3.   It shall be the responsibility of the utility company to repair any
damage to the roadway which occurs during the installation of the utility. Said
repairs shall be made to the specifications of the road department;
      4.   Upon the expiration of two (2) years from the date of completion of
the utility project, the bond posted shall be released and returned to the
utility company. If, during the course of the two (2) years, repair of the
roadway becomes necessary due to the installation of the utility, then the
county shall make claim against the bond for the amount of the repairs. (1998
Code § 12.04.080)
6-1-6: APPROACHES TO COUNTY ROADS:
The construction of approaches to county roads shall be by permit only, subject
to the following terms and conditions:
   A.   Application shall be made pursuant to section
6-1-7 of this chapter;
   B.   Approaches must be on a ninety degree (90°) angle to the road;
   C.   Must have sufficient clearance both ways to allow for visual sight of
approaching traffic;
   D.   Must furnish own pipe to handle any drainage problems;
   E.   Must be responsible for their own cattle guards and/or gates that are
installed on the approach;
   F.   Those applying for this permit must be responsible to alert the
utilities of any work being done in the right of way and must also be
responsible for damage to such utilities;
   G.   When an approach is made, at least a thirty foot (30') level portion be
built where it meets the main roadway, thus eliminating sharp rises or sharp
drops in the approachway. (1998 Code § 12.04.090)
6-1-7: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Application; Project Description: Application shall be made to the road
department. Said application shall include a complete description of the extent
and nature of the project, including dimensions and diagrams.
   B.   Fee: Said application shall be accompanied by the proper application
fee. Said fee shall be set by the county commission upon the adoption date
hereof, and may be subject to review and change periodically as the county
commission deems just and proper.
   C.   Review: Upon receipt of the complete application, the road department
shall review said application as to its meeting the county specifications, as
well as its effect on the existing county road system.
   D.   County Commission Review: Upon approval of the road department, the
application shall be sent to the county commission for review. The county
commission shall grant said permit, provided said permit meets the approval of
the road department and the planning and zoning department.
   E.   Time Limit For Action: Each step of this procedure shall be
accomplished within five (5) working days, each department having five (5)
working days to accept or reject said application. (1998 Code § 12.04.100)
6-1-8: IRRIGATION WATER ON PUBLIC ROADS:
   A.   Prohibition: No person, firm, or corporation shall operate any
irrigation system or procedure, resulting in irrigation water sprinkling upon,
running over, or within any portion of the maintained area of any County Class
B public road in Duchesne County.
   B.   Maintained area defined: The term “maintained area” shall include that
portion of the County Class B road currently occupied by the traveled way and
its appurtenances. Appurtenances shall include road shoulders, roadside
drainage ditches, road embankment slopes, and road cut slopes.
   C.   Exemption: It shall not be a violation of this chapter if the
irrigation water sprinkling upon, running over, or within any portion of the
road’s maintained area is a result of the force of nature or events beyond the
control of the irrigator. (Ord. 21-385, 4-12-2021)
6-1-9: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be considered an infraction and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Furthermore, the violator shall be responsible for any
restitution for damages occurred as a result of the violator’s acts. The amount
of restitution shall be determined by the county attorney’s office. (1998 Code
§ 12.04.110; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 21- 385, 4-12-2021)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Waiver Of Bond Requirements Permitted On Certain Contracts
6-2-1: WAIVER OF BOND REQUIREMENTS PERMITTED ON CERTAIN CONTRACTS:
The requirement of a performance or payment bond on contracts for public
buildings or public works entered into by the county may be waived by the board
of county commissioners, if all of the following criteria are met:
   A.   The total contract price does not exceed forty thousand dollars
($40,000.00).
   B.   The contractor involved has a reputation for dependability and quality
workmanship, and has experience with the type of work contemplated by the
contract.
   C.   The contractor waives all right to receive payment until after the
entire project has been approved and accepted by the county.
   D.   The contractor delivers to the county certified funds in the total
amount of the contract price to be held by the county as a bond for all
purposes of Utah Code Annotated section 14-1-19, as amended, until the entire
project has been approved and accepted by the county, and the contractor has
provided evidence, satisfactory to the county, that all persons who have
furnished labor, service, equipment or material on the project have been paid
in full. (1998 Code § 2.16.010; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 7
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 1
CODES ADOPTED AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Title
7-1A-2: Intent
7-1A-3: Scope
7-1A-4: Applicability
7-1A-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known as the BUILDING TITLE OF DUCHESNE COUNTY,
hereinafter referred to as "this title". (1998 Code § 15.01.010)
7-1A-2: INTENT:
The purpose of this title is to establish the minimum requirements to safeguard
the public health, safety and general welfare through structural strength,
means of egress facilities, stability, sanitation, adequate light and
ventilation, energy conservation, and safety to life and property from fire and
other hazards attributed to the built environment. (1998 Code § 15.01.030)
7-1A-3: SCOPE:
The provisions of the construction codes and standards as adopted in this
chapter, shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance,
removal and demolition of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected or attached to such buildings or structures located in the county.
(1998 Code § 15.01.020)
7-1A-4: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General: Where, in any specific case, different sections of this title
specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the
most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general
requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be
applicable. (1998 Code § 15.02.010)
   B.   Other Laws: The provisions of this title shall not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state or federal law. (1998 Code § 15.02.020)
   C.   Application Of References: References to chapter or section numbers, or
to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to
refer to such chapter, section or provision of this title. (1998 Code §
15.02.030)
   D.   Referenced Codes And Standards: The codes and standards referenced in
this title shall be considered part of the requirements of this title to the
prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between
provisions of this title and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of
this title shall apply. (1998 Code § 15.02.040)
   E.   Existing Structures: The legal occupancy of any structure existing on
the date hereof shall be permitted to continue without change, except as is
specifically covered in this title, the international property maintenance code
or the international fire code, or as is deemed necessary by the building
official for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
(1998 Code § 15.02.060)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Department Of Building Safety
7-1B-2: Building Official Powers And Duties
7-1B-3: Board Of Appeals
7-1B-1: DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING SAFETY:
   A.   Creation Of Enforcement Agency: The department of building safety is
hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the
building official. (1998 Code § 15.03.010)
   B.   Building Official Appointed: The building official shall be appointed
by the board of county commissioners. (1998 Code § 15.03.020)
   C.   Deputies: In accordance with the prescribed procedures of the county
and with the concurrence of the board of county commissioners, the building
official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy building official, the
related technical officers, inspectors, plan examiners and other employees.
Such employees shall have the same responsibilities and powers to act as the
building official when delegated by the building official. For the maintenance
of existing properties, see the international property maintenance code. (1998
Code § 15.03.030)
7-1B-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: The building official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce the provisions of this title. The building official shall have the
authority to render interpretations of this title and to adopt policies and
procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such
interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent
and purpose of this title. Such policies and procedures shall not have the
effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this title. (1998
Code § 15.04.010)
   B.   Applications And Permits: The building official shall receive
applications, review construction documents and issue permits for the erection,
and alteration, demolition and moving of buildings and structures, inspect the
premises for which such permits have been issued, and enforce compliance with
the provisions of this title. (1998 Code § 15.04.020)
   C.   Notices And Orders: The building official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this title. (1998 Code § 15.04.030)
   D.   Inspections: The building official shall make all of the required
inspections, or the building official shall have the authority to accept
reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such
inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible officer of
such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The building official is
authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon
unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the board of
county commissioners. (1998 Code § 15.04.040)
   E.   Identification: The building official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
title. (1998 Code § 15.04.050)
   F.   Right Of Entry: Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
the provisions of this title, or where the building official has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists in a structure or upon a premises a
condition which is contrary to or in violation of this title which makes the
structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official is
authorized to enter the structure or premises at reasonable times to inspect or
to perform the duties imposed by this title; provided, that if such structure
or premises be occupied, that credentials be presented to the occupant and
entry requested. If such structure or premises be unoccupied, the building
official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry.
If entry is refused, the building official shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry. (1998 Code § 15.04.060)
   G.   Department Records: The building official shall keep official records
of applications received, permits and certificates issued, fees collected,
reports of inspections, and notices and orders issued. Such records shall be
retained in the official records for the period required for retention of
public records. (1998 Code § 15.04.070)
   H.   Liability: The building official, members of the board of appeals or
employees charged with the enforcement of this title, while acting for the
county in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required
by this title or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be
rendered liable personally and is hereby relieved from personal liability for
any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason
of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted
against an officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or
employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this
title shall be defended by legal representative of the jurisdiction until the
final termination of the proceedings. The building official or any subordinate
shall not be liable for cost in any action, suit or proceeding that is
instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this title. (1998 Code §
15.04.080)
   I.   Approve Materials And Equipment: Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the building official shall be constructed and installed in
accordance with such approval. (1998 Code § 15.04.090)
   J.   Used Materials And Equipment: The use of used materials which meet the
requirements of this title for new materials is permitted. Used equipment and
devices shall not be reused unless approved by the building official. (1998
Code § 15.04.100)
   K.   Modifications: Wherever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this title, the building official shall have the
authority to grant modifications for individual cases, upon application of the
owner or owner's representative, provided the building official shall first
find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this title
impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose
of this title, and that such modification does not lessen health,
accessibility, life and fire safety, or structural requirements. The details of
action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the
department of building safety. (1998 Code § 15.04.110)
   L.   Alternative Materials, Design, And Methods Of Construction And
Equipment: The provisions of this title are not intended to prevent the
installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of
construction not specifically prescribed by this title; provided, that any such
alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design or method of
construction shall be approved where the building official finds that the
proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions
of this title, and that the material, method or work offered is, for the
purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this title in
quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. (1998
Code § 15.04.120)
   M.   Tests: Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the
provisions of this title, or evidence that a material or method does not
conform to the requirements of this title, or in order to substantiate claims
for alternative materials or methods, the building official shall have the
authority to require tests as evidence of compliance to be made at no expense
to the county. Test methods shall be as specified in this title or by other
recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test
methods, the building official shall approve the testing procedures. Tests
shall be performed by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall be
retained by the building official for the period required by statute for
retention of public records. (1998 Code § 15.04.130)
7-1B-3: BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Created; Appointment; Term; Rules: In order to hear and decide appeals
of orders, decisions or determinations made by the building official relative
to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is
hereby created a board of appeal . The board of appeals was appointed by the
governing body for a term of four (4) years commencing January 1st of the year
of appointment. Board members shall be limited to four (4) consecutive four (4)
year terms. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting it’s
business.
   B.   Qualifications Of Board Members: The board of appeals shall consist of
a panel of five (5) members as chosen by the governing body. The board of
appeals members shall be selected as follows: a person representing the
plumbing profession, a person representing the electrical profession, a person
representing general contractors, a person who is a construction crew
supervisor, and a layperson representing the public at large. There shall also
be chosen by the governing body two (2) alternates to take the place of an
appeals board member in the event an appeals board member is unavailable or has
a conflict of interest.
   C.   Limitations On Authority: An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder
have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully
apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The board
shall have no authority to waive requirements of the adopted codes. (1998 Code
§§ 15.12.010, 15.12.020, 15.20.030; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE C. CODES ADOPTED
SECTION:
7-1C-1: Applicability
7-1C-2: Building And Residential Codes
7-1C-3: Electrical Code
7-1C-4: Fuel Gas Code
7-1C-5: Mechanical Code
7-1C-6: Plumbing Code
7-1C-7: Property Maintenance Code
7-1C-8: Fire Prevention Code
7-1C-9: Energy Conservation Code
7-1C-10: Appendices And Administrative Portions Of International Codes
7-1C-1: APPLICABILITY:
The codes listed in this article and referenced elsewhere in this title shall
be considered part of the requirements of this title to the prescribed extent
of each such reference. (1998 Code § 15.01.040; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1C-2: BUILDING AND RESIDENTIAL CODES:
   A.   Adopted: The provisions of the international building code, as amended,
and the international residential code, as amended, shall apply to the
construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition of
every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such
buildings or structures located in the county. (1998 Code § 15.01.041; amd.
2010 Code)
   B.   Exception: Detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-
family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three (3) stories high with
separate means of egress and their accessory structures shall comply with the
international residential code. (1998 Code § 15.01.041)
7-1C-3: ELECTRICAL CODE:
The provisions of the national electrical code, as amended, shall apply to the
installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs,
replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances
thereto. (1998 Code § 15.01.042; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1C-4: FUEL GAS CODE:
The provisions of the international fuel gas code, as amended, shall apply to
the installation of gas piping from the point of delivery, gas appliances and
related accessories as covered in this title. These requirements apply to gas
piping systems extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of
appliances and the installation and operation of residential and commercial gas
appliances and related accessories. (1998 Code § 15.01.043)
7-1C-5: MECHANICAL CODE:
The provisions of the international mechanical code, as amended, shall apply to
the installation, alterations, repairs and replacement of mechanical systems,
including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances,
including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration
systems, incinerators, and other energy related systems. (1998 Code §
15.01.044)
7-1C-6: PLUMBING CODE:
The provisions of the international plumbing code, as amended, shall apply to
the installation, alterations, repairs and replacement of plumbing systems,
including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, and
where connected to a water or sewage system and all aspects of a medical gas
system. (1998 Code § 15.01.045; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1C-7: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The provisions of the international property maintenance code, as amended,
shall apply to existing structures and premises; equipment and facilities;
light, ventilation, space heating, sanitation, life and fire safety, hazards;
responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants; and occupancy of existing
premises and structures. (1998 Code § 15.01.046)
7-1C-8: FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
The provisions of the international fire code, as amended, shall apply to
matters affecting or relating to structures, processes and premises from the
hazard of fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling or use of
structures, materials or devices; from conditions hazardous to life, property
or public welfare in the occupancy of structures or premises; and from the
construction, extension, repair, alteration or removal of fire suppression and
alarm systems or fire hazards in the structure or on the premises from
occupancy or operation. (1998 Code § 15.01.047)
7-1C-9: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The provisions of the international energy conservation code, as amended, shall
apply to all matters governing the design and construction of buildings for
energy efficiency. (1998 Code § 15.01.048)
7-1C-10: APPENDICES AND ADMINISTRATIVE PORTIONS OF INTERNATIONAL CODES:
Provisions in the appendices to the international codes shall not apply unless
specifically adopted. County administrative procedures shall control over any
conflicting administrative provisions in the international codes. (1998 Code §
15.01.021; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE D. PERMITS
SECTION:
7-1D-1: Permits Required
7-1D-2: Annual Permits
7-1D-3: Exemptions
7-1D-4: Emergency Repairs
7-1D-5: Application For Permit
7-1D-6: Action On Application
7-1D-7: Time Limitation Of Application
7-1D-8: Validity Of Permit
7-1D-9: Expiration
7-1D-10: Placement Of Permit On Site
7-1D-11: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
7-1D-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to
erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is
regulated by this title, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make
application to the building official and obtain the required permit. (1998 Code
§ 15.05.010)
7-1D-2: ANNUAL PERMITS:
   A.   Authorized: In lieu of an individual permit for each alteration to an
already approved electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing installation, the
building official is authorized to issue an annual permit, upon application
therefor, to any person, firm or corporation regularly employing one or more
qualified tradespersons in the building, structure or on the premises owned or
operated by the applicant for the permit. (1998 Code § 15.05.011)
   B.   Annual Permit Records: The person to whom an annual permit is issued
shall keep a detailed record of alterations made under such annual permit. The
building official shall have access to such records at all times or such
records shall be filed with the building official as designated. (1998 Code §
15.05.012)
7-1D-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from permit requirements of this title shall not be deemed to grant
authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this title or any other laws or ordinances of the county. Permits
shall not be required for the following: (1998 Code § 15.05.020)
   A.   Building:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed one
hundred twenty (120) square feet (11.15 m2) for commercial applications and not
to exceed two hundred (200) square feet for residential applications.
      2.   Fences not over six feet (6') (1,829 mm) high.
      3.   Oil derricks.
      4.   Retaining walls which are not over four feet (4') (1,219 mm) in
height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge or impounding class I, II or III-A liquids.
      5.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed five thousand (5,000) gallons (18 927 l) and the ratio of height to
diameter or width does not exceed two to one (2:1).
      6.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than thirty inches (30") (762 mm)
above grade and not over any basement or story below and which are not part of
an accessible route.
      7.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops and
similar finish work.
      8.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
      9.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy, as
applicable in section 101.2 of the international building code, which are less
than twenty four inches (24") (610 mm) deep, do not exceed five thousand
(5,000) gallons (19 000 l) and are installed entirely aboveground.
      10.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes, and not including service systems.
      11.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to one- and two-
family dwellings.
      12.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall of group R-3, as
applicable in section 101.2 of the international building code, and group U
occupancies.
      13.   Movable cases, counters and partitions not over five feet nine
inches (5'9") (1753 mm) in height. (1998 Code § 15.05.021)
   B.   Electrical:
      1.   Repairs And Maintenance: Minor repair work, including the
replacement of lamps or the connection of approved portable electrical
equipment to approved permanently installed receptacles.
      2.   Radio And Television Transmitting Stations: The provisions of this
title shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio and television
transmissions, but does apply to equipment and wiring for power supply, the
installations of towers and antennas.
      3.   Temporary Testing Systems: A permit shall not be required for the
installation of any temporary system required for the testing or servicing of
electrical equipment or apparatus. (1998 Code § 15.05.022)
   C.   Gas:
      1.   Portable heating appliance.
      2.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of
equipment or make such equipment unsafe. (1998 Code § 15.05.023)
   D.   Mechanical:
      1.   Portable heating appliance.
      2.   Portable ventilation equipment.
      3.   Portable cooling unit.
      4.   Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling
equipment regulated by this title.
      5.   Replacement of any part which does not alter its approval or make it
unsafe.
      6.   Portable evaporative cooler.
      7.   Self-contained refrigeration system containing ten (10) pounds (4.54
kg) or less of refrigerant and actuated by motors of one horsepower (746 W) or
less. (1998 Code § 15.05.024)
   E.   Plumbing:
      1.   The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe;
provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil, waste or
vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the
same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit
shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this title.
      2.   The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves
or fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes or fixtures. (1998 Code § 15.05.025)
   F.   Repairs: Application or notice to the building official is not required
for ordinary repairs to structures, replacement of lamps or the connection of
approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently installed
receptacles. Such repairs shall not include the cutting away of any wall,
partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting of any structural beam or
load bearing support, or the removal or change of any required means of egress,
or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the egress requirements; nor
shall ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of, replacement or
relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas,
soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring or mechanical or other
work affecting public health or general safety. (1998 Code § 15.05.026)
   G.   Public Service Agencies: A permit shall not be required for the
installation, alteration or repair of generation, transmission, distribution or
metering or other related equipment that is under the ownership and control of
public service agencies by established right. (1998 Code § 15.05.027)
7-1D-4: EMERGENCY REPAIRS:
Where equipment replacements and repairs must be performed in an emergency
situation, the permit application shall be submitted within the next working
business day to the building official. (1998 Code § 15.05.030)
7-1D-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application therefor in
writing on a form furnished by the department of building safety for that
purpose. Such application shall:
   A.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
   B.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
   C.   Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed work is intended.
   D.   Be accompanied by construction documents and other information as
required in article F of this chapter.
   E.   State the valuation of the proposed work.
   F.   Be signed by the applicant, or the applicant's authorized agent.
   G.   Give such other data and information as required by the building
official. (1998 Code § 15.05.040)
7-1D-6: ACTION ON APPLICATION:
The building official shall examine or cause to be examined applications for
permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application or the construction documents do not conform to the requirements of
pertinent laws, the building official shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the building official is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this title and laws and
ordinances applicable thereto, the building official shall issue a permit
therefor as soon as practicable. (1998 Code § 15.05.041)
7-1D-7: TIME LIMITATION OF APPLICATION:
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been
abandoned one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of filing, unless such
application has been pursued in good faith or a permit has been issued; except
that the building official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of
time for additional periods not exceeding ninety (90) days each. The extension
shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. (1998 Code §
15.05.042)
7-1D-8: VALIDITY OF PERMIT:
The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for,
or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this title, or of
any other ordinance of the county. Permits presuming to give authority to
violate or cancel the provisions of this title or other ordinances of the
county shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction
documents and other data shall not prevent the building official from requiring
the correction of errors in the construction documents and other data. The
building official is also authorized to prevent occupancy or use of a structure
where in violation of this title or of any other ordinances of the county.
(1998 Code § 15.05.050)
7-1D-9: EXPIRATION:
Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site authorized
by such permit is commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days after its
issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days after the time the work
is commenced. The building official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or
more extensions of time, for periods not more than one hundred eighty (180)
days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated. (1998 Code § 15.05.060)
7-1D-10: PLACEMENT OF PERMIT ON SITE:
The building permit or copy shall be kept on the site of the work until the
completion of the project. (1998 Code § 15.05.080)
7-1D-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT 1 :
   A.   Authorized: An approved building permit may be revoked by the building
official in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section and the
building code if it is determined that the application, decision, permit or
license was based on materially inaccurate, misleading or incomplete
information.
   B.   Revocation Procedures: If the building official determines, based on
inspection, that there exists reasonable grounds for revocation of a building
permit authorized by this title, the building official may revoke the building
permit, subject to the appeal process outlined in this section. Any person
aggrieved by such decision may appeal by submitting, within fifteen (15) days
of the revocation, a written request for a public hearing to the county
commission. This procedure is in addition to and separate from the procedures
required in the building code in regard to the board of appeals.
   C.   Notice And Public Hearing: At least fourteen (14) days' notice of a
proceeding to reconsider or revoke the development permit, building permit or
license shall be given to the applicant.
   D.   Required Findings: The county commission may revoke the development
approval, building permit or license upon making one or more of the following
findings:
      1.   That the development application or building permit was issued on
the basis of erroneous or misleading information or misrepresentation provided
by the applicant.
      2.   That the terms or conditions of approval of the permit relating to
establishment or operation of the use, building or structure have been violated
or that other laws or regulations of the county applicable to the development
have been violated.
   E.   Decision And Notice: Within five (5) days of the conclusion of the
hearing, the county commission shall render a decision and shall notify the
holder of the permit or license of the decision and any other person who has
filed a written request for such notice.
   F.   Effect: A decision to revoke a permit or license shall become final
five (5) days after the date notice of the decision was given, or expiration of
the appeal period in subsection B of this section. After the effective date,
all activities pursuant to such permit shall be deemed in violation of this
title. (2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-4-3 of this code.
ARTICLE E. FEES
SECTION:
7-1E-1: Payment Of Fees
7-1E-2: Schedule Of Permit Fees
7-1E-3: Building Permit Valuations
7-1E-4: Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance
7-1E-5: Related Fees
7-1E-6: Refunds
7-1E-1: PAYMENT OF FEES:
A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid.
Nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if
any, has been paid. (1998 Code § 15.08.010)
7-1E-2: SCHEDULE OF PERMIT FEES:
In buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems or
alterations requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid as
required, in accordance with the schedule as established by resolution of the
board of county commissioners. (1998 Code § 15.08.020)
7-1E-3: BUILDING PERMIT VALUATIONS:
The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated permit value at time of
application. Permit valuations shall include total value of work, including
materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as electrical,
gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and permanent systems. If, in the opinion
of the building official, the valuation is underestimated on the application,
the permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to
meet the approval of the building official. Final building permit valuation
shall be set by the building official. (1998 Code § 15.08.030)
7-1E-4: WORK COMMENCING BEFORE PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Any person who commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas,
mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be
subject to an additional fee established by resolution of the board of county
commissioners. (1998 Code § 15.08.040)
7-1E-5: RELATED FEES:
The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or demolition
for work done in connection with or concurrently with the work authorized by a
building permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from
the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law. (1998 Code § 15.08.050)
7-1E-6: REFUNDS:
The building official is authorized to establish a refund policy. (1998 Code §
15.08.060)
ARTICLE F. CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS
SECTION:
7-1F-1: Submittal Documents
7-1F-2: Examination Of Documents
7-1F-3: Approval Of Construction Documents
7-1F-4: Previous Approvals
7-1F-5: Phased Approval
7-1F-6: Design Professional In Responsible Charge
7-1F-7: Amended Construction Documents
7-1F-8: Retention Of Construction Documents
7-1F-1: SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: Construction documents, special inspection and structural
observation programs, and other data, shall be submitted in one or more sets
with each application for a permit. The construction documents shall be
prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes of
the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. Where special
conditions exist, the building official is authorized to require additional
construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional.
   B.   Exception: The building official is authorized to waive the submission
of construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that reviewing of construction documents is not necessary
to obtain compliance with this title. (1998 Code § 15.06.010)
   C.   Information On Construction Documents: Construction documents shall be
dimensioned and drawn upon suitable material. Electronic media documents are
permitted to be submitted when approved by the building official. Construction
documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and
extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the
provisions of this title and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations,
as determined by the building official. (1998 Code § 15.06.011)
   D.   Fire Protection System Shop Drawings: Shop drawings for the fire
protection system shall be submitted to indicate conformance with this title
and the construction documents, and shall be approved prior to the start of
system installation. Shop drawings shall contain all information as required by
the referenced installation standards in the international building code. (1998
Code § 15.06.012; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Means Of Egress: The construction documents shall show in sufficient
detail the location, construction, size and character of all portions of the
means of egress in compliance with the provisions of this title. In other than
occupancies in groups R-2 and R-3 as applicable in subsection 7-1C-2B of this
chapter and I-1, the construction documents shall designate the number of
occupants to be accommodated on every floor, and in all rooms and spaces. (1998
Code § 15.06.013)
   F.   Exterior Wall Envelope: Construction documents for all buildings shall
describe the exterior wall envelope in sufficient detail to determine
compliance with this title. The construction documents shall provide details of
the exterior wall envelope as required, including flashing, intersections with
dissimilar materials, corners, end details, control joints, intersections at
roof, eaves or parapets, means of drainage, water resistive membrane, and
details around openings. The construction documents shall include manufacturing
installation instructions that provide supporting documentation that the
proposed penetration and opening details described in the construction
documents maintain the weather resistance of the exterior wall envelope. The
supporting documentation shall fully describe the exterior wall system which
was tested, where applicable, as well as the test procedure used. (1998 Code §
15.06.014)
   G.   Site Plan: The construction documents submitted with the application
for permit shall be accompanied by a site plan showing to scale the size and
location of new construction and existing structures on the site, distances
from lot lines, the established street grades and the proposed finished grades;
and it shall be drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey. In
the case of demolition, the site plan shall show construction to be demolished
and the location and size of existing structures and construction that are to
remain on the site or plot. The building official is authorized to waive or
modify the requirement for a site plan when the application for permit is for
alteration or repair or when otherwise warranted. (1998 Code § 15.06.015)
7-1F-2: EXAMINATION OF DOCUMENTS:
The building official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying
construction documents and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the
construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of
this title and other pertinent laws or ordinances. (1998 Code § 15.06.020)
7-1F-3: APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS:
When the building official issues a permit, the construction documents shall be
approved, in writing or by stamp, as "Reviewed For Code Compliance". One set of
construction documents so reviewed shall be retained by the building official.
The other set shall be returned to the applicant, shall be kept at the site of
work and shall be open to inspection by the building official, or his
authorized representative. (1998 Code § 15.06.030)
7-1F-4: PREVIOUS APPROVALS:
This title shall not require changes in the construction documents,
construction or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit
has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized, and the
construction of which has been pursued in good faith within one hundred eighty
(180) days after the effective date hereof and has not been abandoned. (1998
Code § 15.06.040)
7-1F-5: PHASED APPROVAL:
The building official is authorized to issue a permit for the construction of
foundations or any other part of a building or structure before the
construction documents for the whole building or structure have been submitted;
provided, that adequate information and detailed statements have been filed
complying with pertinent requirements of this title. The holder of such permit
for the foundation or other parts of a building or structure shall proceed at
the holder's own risk with the building operation and without assurance that a
permit for the entire structure will be granted. (1998 Code § 15.06.050)
7-1F-6: DESIGN PROFESSIONAL IN RESPONSIBLE CHARGE:
   A.   General: When it is required that documents be prepared by a registered
design professional, the building official shall be authorized to require the
owner to engage and designate on the building permit application a registered
design professional who shall act as the registered design professional in
responsible charge. If the circumstances require, the owner shall designate a
substitute registered design professional in responsible charge who shall
perform the duties required of the original registered design professional in
responsible charge. The building official shall be notified in writing by the
owner if the registered design professional in responsible charge is changed or
is unable to continue to perform the duties. The registered design professional
in responsible charge shall be responsible for reviewing and coordinating
submittal documents prepared by others, including phased and deferred submittal
items, for compatibility with the design of the building. Where structural
observation is required by the international building code, the inspection
program shall name the individual or firms who are to perform structural
observation and describe the stages of construction at which structural
observation is to occur. See also duties specified in the international
building code. (1998 Code § 15.06.061; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Deferred Submittals: For the purposes of this section, "deferred
submittals" are defined as those portions of the design that are not submitted
at the time of the application and that are to be submitted to the building
official within a specified period. Deferral of any submittal items shall have
the prior approval of the building official. The registered design professional
in responsible charge shall list the deferred submittals on the construction
documents for review by the building official. Submittal documents for deferred
submittal items shall be submitted to the registered design professional in
responsible charge who shall review them and forward them to the building
official with a notation indicating that the deferred submittal documents have
been reviewed and that they have been found to be in general conformance with
the design of the building. The deferred submittal items shall not be installed
until their design and submittal documents have been approved by the building
official. (1998 Code § 15.06.062)
7-1F-7: AMENDED CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS:
Work shall be installed in accordance with the reviewed construction documents,
and any changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the
approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended
set of construction documents. (1998 Code § 15.06.070)
7-1F-8: RETENTION OF CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS:
One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by the building
official for a period of not less than one hundred eighty (180) days from date
of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws.
(1998 Code § 15.06.080)
ARTICLE G. TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
7-1G-1: Authority To Issue Permit
7-1G-2: Conformance Required
7-1G-3: Temporary Power Permitted
7-1G-4: Termination Of Approval
7-1G-1: AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMIT:
The building official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary structures
and temporary uses. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service, but
shall not be permitted for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. The
building official is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
(1998 Code § 15.07.010)
7-1G-2: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
Temporary structures and uses shall conform to the structural strength, fire
safety, means of egress, accessibility, light, ventilation and sanitary
requirements of this title as necessary to ensure the public health, safety and
general welfare. (1998 Code § 15.07.020)
7-1G-3: TEMPORARY POWER PERMITTED:
The building official is authorized to give permission to temporarily supply
and use power in part of an electric installation before such installation has
been fully completed and the final certificate of completion has been issued.
The part covered by the temporary certificate shall comply with the
requirements specified for temporary lighting, heat or power in the ICC
electrical code. (1998 Code § 15.07.030)
7-1G-4: TERMINATION OF APPROVAL:
The building official is authorized to terminate such permit for a temporary
structure or use and to order the temporary structure or use to be
discontinued. (1998 Code § 15.07.040)
ARTICLE H. INSPECTIONS
SECTION:
7-1H-1: General Authority
7-1H-2: Preliminary Inspection
7-1H-3: Required Inspections
7-1H-4: Inspection Agencies
7-1H-5: Request For Inspection
7-1H-6: Approval Required
7-1H-1: GENERAL AUTHORITY:
Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the building official, and such construction or work shall remain
accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a
result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation
of the provisions of this title or of other ordinances of the county.
Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of
this title or of other ordinances of the county shall not be valid. It shall be
the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain accessible and
exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the building official nor the county
shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any
material required to allow inspection. (1998 Code § 15.09.010)
7-1H-2: PRELIMINARY INSPECTION:
Before issuing a permit, the building official is authorized to examine or
cause to be examined buildings, structures and sites for which an application
has been filed. (1998 Code § 15.09.020)
7-1H-3: REQUIRED INSPECTIONS:
The building official, upon notification, shall make the inspections set forth
in this section. (1998 Code § 15.09.030)
   A.   Footing Or Foundation Inspection: Footing and foundation inspections
shall be made after excavations for footings are complete and any required
reinforcing steel is in place. For concrete foundations, any required forms
shall be in place prior to inspection. Materials for the foundation shall be on
the job, except where concrete is ready mixed in accordance with ASTM C 94, the
concrete need not be on the job. (1998 Code § 15.09.031)
   B.   Concrete Slab Or Underfloor Inspection: Concrete slab and underfloor
inspections shall be made after in-slab or underfloor reinforcing steel and
building service equipment, conduit, piping accessories and other ancillary
equipment items are in place, but before any concrete is placed or floor
sheathing installed, including the subfloor. (1998 Code § 15.09.032)
   C.   Lowest Floor Elevation: The elevation certification required in section
R109.1.3 of the international building code, as adopted by the county, shall be
submitted to the building official. (1998 Code § 15.09.033; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Frame Inspection: Framing inspections shall be made after the roof deck
or sheathing, all framing, fire blocking and bracing are in place, and pipes,
chimneys and vents to be concealed are complete, and the rough electrical,
plumbing, heating wires, pipes and ducts are approved. (1998 Code § 15.09.034)
   E.   Weather: Weather barrier. (2010 Code)
   F.   Lath Or Gypsum Board Inspection:
      1.   Lath and gypsum board inspections shall be made after lathing and
gypsum board, interior and exterior, is in place, but before any plastering is
applied or before gypsum board joints and fasteners are taped and finished.
      2.   Exception: Gypsum board that is not part of a fire resistive
assembly or a shear assembly. (1998 Code § 15.09.035)
   G.   Fire Resistant Penetrations: Protection of joints and penetrations in
fire resistance rated assemblies shall not be concealed from view until
inspected and approved. (1998 Code § 15.09.036)
   H.   Energy Efficiency Inspections: Inspections shall be made to determine
compliance with the international building code and shall include, but not be
limited to, inspections for envelope insulation R and U value, fenestration U
value, duct system R value, and HVAC and water heating equipment efficiency.
(1998 Code § 15.09.037; amd. 2010 Code)
   I.   Other Inspections: In addition to the inspections specified above, the
building official is authorized to make or require other inspections of any
construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this title and
other laws that are enforced by the department of building safety. For special
inspections, see the international building code. (1998 Code § 15.09.038; amd.
2010 Code)
   J.   Final Inspection: The final inspection shall be made after all work
required by the building permit is completed. (1998 Code § 15.09.039)
   K.   Special: Special inspections. (2010 Code)
7-1H-4: INSPECTION AGENCIES:
The building official is authorized to accept reports of approved inspection
agencies, provided such agencies satisfy the requirements as to qualifications
and reliability. (1998 Code § 15.09.040)
7-1H-5: REQUEST FOR INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the holder of the building permit or their duly
authorized agent to notify the building official when work is ready for
inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and
means for inspection of such work for any inspections that are required by this
title. (1998 Code § 15.09.050)
7-1H-6: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection
without first obtaining the approval of the building official. The building
official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall
either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as
completed, or shall notify the permit holder or an agent of the permit holder
wherein the same fails to comply with this title. Any portions that do not
comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed
until authorized by the building official. (1998 Code § 15.09.060)
ARTICLE I. CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY 1
SECTION:
7-1I-1: Use And Occupancy Requires Certificate
7-1I-2: Change In Use
7-1I-3: Issuance Of Certificate; Content
7-1I-4: Temporary Occupancy Certificates
7-1I-5: Revocation Of Certificate
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-5 of this code.
7-1I-1: USE AND OCCUPANCY REQUIRES CERTIFICATE:
No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change in the
existing occupancy classification of a building or structure, or portion
thereof, shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefor as provided herein. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy
shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this
title or of other ordinances of the county. (1998 Code § 15.10.010)
7-1I-2: CHANGE IN USE:
Changes in the character or use of an existing structure shall not be made,
except as specified in the international building code, as adopted by the
county. (1998 Code § 15.10.020; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1I-3: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE; CONTENT:
After the building official inspects the building or structure and finds no
violations of the provisions of this title or other laws that are enforced by
the department of building safety, the building official shall issue a
certificate of occupancy, which shall contain the following:
   A.   The building permit number.
   B.   The address of the structure.
   C.   The name and address of the owner.
   D.   A description of that portion of the structure for which the
certificate is issued.
   E.   A statement that the described portion of the structure has been
inspected for compliance with the requirements of this title for the occupancy
and division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed occupancy is
classified.
   F.   The name of the building official.
   G.   The edition of the applicable code under which the permit was issued.
   H.   The use and occupancy, in accordance with the provisions of the
international building code, as adopted by the county.
   I.   The type of construction as defined in the international building code,
as adopted by the county.
   J.   The design occupant load.
   K.   If an automatic sprinkler system is provided, whether the sprinkler
system is required.
   L.   Any special stipulations and conditions of the building permit. (1998
Code § 15.10.030; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1I-4: TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES:
The building official is authorized to issue a temporary certificate of
occupancy before the completion of the entire work covered by the permit;
provided, that such portion or portions shall be occupied safely. The building
official shall set a time period during which the temporary certificate of
occupancy is valid. (1998 Code § 15.10.040)
7-1I-5: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
The building official is authorized to, in writing, suspend or revoke a
certificate of occupancy or completion issued under the provisions of this
title wherever the certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect
information supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure,
or portion thereof, is in violation of any ordinance or regulation, or any of
the provisions of this title. (1998 Code § 15.10.050)
CHAPTER 2
SERVICE UTILITIES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Connection Of Service Utilities
7-2-2: Temporary Connections
7-2-3: Authority To Disconnect Service Utilities
7-2-1: CONNECTION OF SERVICE UTILITIES:
No person shall make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel or
power to any building or system that is regulated by this title for which a
permit is required, until released by the building official. (1998 Code §
15.11.010)
7-2-2: TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS:
The building official shall have the authority to authorize the temporary
connection of the building or system to the utility source of energy, fuel or
power. (1998 Code § 15.11.020)
7-2-3: AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE UTILITIES:
The building official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of
utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this title
and the codes referenced in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an
immediate hazard to life or property. The building official shall notify the
serving utility, and wherever possible the owner and occupant of the building,
structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such
action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner or occupant of the
building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as
practical thereafter. (1998 Code § 15.11.030)
CHAPTER 3
UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
7-3-1: Conditions
7-3-2: Report Of Unsafe Condition
7-3-3: Notice To Abate
7-3-4: Method Of Service
7-3-5: Restoration
7-3-1: CONDITIONS:
Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe,
unsanitary or deficient because of inadequate means of egress facilities,
inadequate light and ventilation, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are
otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or which involve
illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an
unsafe condition. Unsafe structures shall be taken down and removed, or made
safe, as the building official deems necessary and as provided for in this
section. A vacant structure that is not secured against entry shall be deemed
unsafe. (1998 Code § 15.15.010)
7-3-2: REPORT OF UNSAFE CONDITION:
The building official shall cause a report to be filed on an unsafe condition.
The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the nature of the
unsafe condition. (1998 Code § 15.15.020)
7-3-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
If an unsafe condition is found, the building official shall serve on the
owner, agent or person in control of the structure, a written notice that
describes the condition deemed unsafe and specifies the required repairs or
improvements to be made to abate the unsafe condition, or that requires the
unsafe structure to be demolished within a stipulated time. Such notice shall
require the person thus notified to declare immediately to the building
official acceptance or rejection of the terms of the order. (1998 Code §
15.15.030)
7-3-4: METHOD OF SERVICE:
Such notice shall be deemed properly served if a copy thereof is: a) delivered
to the owner personally; b) sent by certified or registered mail addressed to
the owner at the last known address with the return receipt requested; or c)
delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local law. If the certified or
registered letter is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy
thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by such notice. Service of such notice in the foregoing manner upon
the owner's agent or upon the person responsible for the structure shall
constitute service of notice upon the owner. (1998 Code § 15.15.040)
7-3-5: RESTORATION:
The structure or equipment determined to be unsafe by the building official is
permitted to be restored to a safe condition. To the extent that repairs,
alterations or additions are made or a change of occupancy occurs during the
restoration of the structure, such repairs, alterations, additions or change of
occupancy shall comply with the requirements of subsection 7-1D-3F of this
title and the international building code, as adopted by the county. (1998 Code
§ 15.15.050; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
SECTION:
7-4-1: Authority; Intent
7-4-2: Historic Preservation Commission
7-4-3: Duties Of Commission
7-4-1: AUTHORITY; INTENT:
Recognizing that the historical heritage of this state is one of its most
important assets, it is the intent of the legislature that the counties, cities
and towns of the state shall have the power to identify, preserve, protect and
enhance historic and prehistoric areas in sites lying within their respective
jurisdictions as provided in this chapter. The counties, cities, and towns are
empowered to spend public funds for the purpose of identifying, preserving and
protecting or enhancing historical areas on site as provided in this chapter.
(1998 Code § 15.20.010; amd. 2010 Code)
7-4-2: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
A historic preservation commission is established with the following
provisions:
   A.   Membership: There shall be five (5) members with a demonstrated
interest, competence, or knowledge in historic preservation. Such members shall
serve for a term of two (2) years, and shall serve until their successors are
selected, appointed, and qualified. The initial membership of the commission
shall consist of two (2) members appointed for a term which shall expire on
July 1, 1987, and three (3) members appointed for a term which shall end on
July 1, 1988. Thereafter, the terms of all commissioners shall be for a period
of two (2) years. All commission members shall be selected and appointed by a
majority vote of the county commissioners who may receive nominations for
membership on the commission from interested parties and organizations
throughout the community.
   B.   Officers: At the first meeting each year, the commissioners shall elect
one of their members to serve as chairperson and one to serve as secretary, for
the next year.
   C.   Professionals: To the extent available in the community, two (2)
commission members shall be professionals, as defined by national park service
regulations, from the disciplines of history and architecture or architectural
history.
   D.   Meetings: The commission will meet at least twice each year and conduct
business in accordance with the open public meeting laws of the state. This
includes public notification of meeting place, time and agenda items.
   E.   Minutes: Written minutes of each commission meeting will be prepared
and made available for public inspection.
   F.   Reimbursement For Expenses: Commission members shall be reimbursed for
actual expenses incurred in conducting commission business, as approved by a
majority of the commission. (1998 Code § 15.20.020)
7-4-3: DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
The duties of the commission shall be as follows:
   A.   Survey And Inventory Community Historic Resources: The historic
preservation commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the
historic, architectural and archeological resources within the community. The
survey shall be compatible with the Utah inventory of historic and
archeological sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and
open to the public. The survey will be updated at least every ten (10) years.
   B.   Review Proposed Nominations To National Register Of Historic Places:
The historic preservation commission shall review and comment to the state
historic preservation officer on all proposed national register nominations for
properties within the boundaries of the community. When the historic
preservation commission considers a national register nomination which is
normally evaluated by professionals in a specific discipline and that
discipline is not represented on the commission, the commission will seek
expertise in this area before rendering its decision.
   C.   Provide Advice And Information:
      1.   The historic preservation commission shall act in an advisory role
to other officials and departments of government regarding the identification
and protection of local historic and archeological resources.
      2.   The historic preservation commission shall work toward the
continuing education of citizens regarding historic preservation and the
community history. (1998 Code § 15.20.030)
   D.   Enforcement Of State Historic Preservation Law: The commission shall
support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic preservations.
(1998 Code § 15.20.030; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Authority
8-1-2: Purpose
8-1-3: Applicability
8-1-4: Building Permits Required; Exceptions
8-1-5: Certificates Of Occupancy
8-1-6: Exemptions
8-1-7: Amendments To Title And Map
8-1-1: AUTHORITY:
The board of county commissioners adopts this title pursuant to the county land
use development and management act, Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 27a,
and all other authorities and provisions of Utah statutory and common law that
are applicable. (1998 Code § 17.00.010)
8-1-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this title is to implement the goals and policies of the
county general plan. This title contains standards, provisions and requirements
intended to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
county by ensuring that neighbors, adjacent and neighboring properties are
protected from potential negative impacts in the development and use of land
and resources. It is the intent of this title to provide a means of ensuring
predictability and consistency in the use of land and individual properties,
and to guide and direct the development of land.
   B.   These purposes are met by:
      1.   Providing the means of implementing the various policies and other
provisions of the county general plan;
      2.   Generally directing and guiding land development so more intense
development is located in areas of the county having the necessary services and
facilities sufficient to meet the demands of the proposed development;
      3.   Promoting the public health, safety and general welfare by
regulating the location and use of buildings, structures and land for
residential, commercial and other specified uses;
      4.   Protecting landowners from potential adverse impacts from adjoining
uses; and
      5.   Directing and managing, through the establishment of use districts,
the type, distribution and intensity of activity. (1998 Code § 17.00.020)
8-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   No building may be erected and no existing building shall be altered or
enlarged, nor shall any land, building or premises be used, designed or
intended to be used for any purpose or in any manner other than allowed by this
title.
   B.   The provisions of this title shall apply to all lands within the
unincorporated area of the county, as indicated on the county official zoning
district map, accompanying and incorporated herein by reference.
   C.   The provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum
requirements necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the county. Additional requirements may be imposed by the zoning
administrator, board of adjustment, planning commission or county commission to
more fully ensure the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
county are protected. The county is authorized to enter upon any land at
reasonable times to make examinations and surveys pertinent to the preparation
of its general plan and land use ordinances and the enforcement thereof.
   D.   If a use, activity or practice is not specifically prohibited by this
title, such use, activity or practice shall be considered to be permitted.
(Ord. 12-306, 11-19-2012)
8-1-4: BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No construction shall occur except pursuant to a validly issued,
unexpired and unrevoked building permit. The permittee shall proceed only in
accordance with the approved building permit and any approved conditions.
Additionally, no utility company shall hook up service without said building
permit being issued.
   B.   For any construction exempt from the requirement for a building permit,
as allowed by state law, including agricultural buildings, the building
official may require the submission of documents that may be necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of state law and this title. (1998 Code §
17.00.040)
8-1-5: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY 1 :
A certificate of occupancy shall be required before any structure or premises,
or part thereof, hereafter erected, changed, converted, moved, altered or
enlarged wholly or in part, may be used or occupied. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued permitting the use or occupation of any such
structure or premises unless:
   A.   The construction pursuant to such permit as reflected in the approved
building has been fully completed and accomplished; and
   B.   Payments of all applicable fees, charges and other requirements have
been made and any conditions for the establishment of the use or structure have
been met. (1998 Code § 17.00.050)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1, article I of this code.
8-1-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following properties, uses and structures shall, to the extent
provided by law, be exempt from the provisions of this title:
      1.   Properties owned and operated by the state or the federal
government.
      2.   Properties owned or held in trust for the Ute Indian Tribe.
      3.   School districts to the extent provided by Utah Code Annotated
section 17-27a-305.
   B.   Where state or federal law requires that the agency take steps to
comply with all applicable local regulations, this exemption shall not be
construed to abrogate that requirement. (1998 Code § 17.00.060)
8-1-7: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE AND MAP:
   A.   Application: A proposed amendment to this title and map may be
initiated by any property owner, any person residing in the county, any
business owner, the county commission, planning commission, board of adjustment
or the county staff by filing an application for zoning ordinance and map
amendment.
   B.   Notice Of Public Hearings And Public Meetings:
      1.   The county shall give:
         a.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the first public hearing
to consider the adoption or modification of a land use ordinance; and
         b.   Notice of each public meeting on the subject.
      2.   Each notice of a public hearing under subsection B1a of this section
shall be:
         a.   Mailed to each affected entity at least ten (10) calendar days
before the public hearing;
         b.   Posted:
            (1)   In at least three (3) public locations within the county; or
            (2)   On the county's official website; and
         c.   Published:
            (1)   In a newspaper of general circulation in the area at least
ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing; and
            (2)   On the Utah public notice website at least ten (10) calendar
days before the public hearing; or
            (3)   Mailed at least ten (10) days before the public hearing to:
               (A)   Each property owner whose land is directly affected by the
land use ordinance change; and
               (B)   Each adjacent property owner within three hundred feet
(300') of the boundary of the rezone area.
      3.   Each notice of a public meeting under subsection B1b of this section
shall be at least twenty four (24) hours before the meeting and shall be
posted:
         a.   In at least three (3) public locations within the county; or
         b.   On the county's official website.
      4.   a. If the county plans to hold a public hearing in accordance with
section 17-27a-502 of the Utah code to adopt a zoning map or map amendment, the
county shall send a courtesy notice to each owner of private real property
whose property is located entirely or partially within the proposed map at
least ten (10) days prior to the scheduled day of the public hearing.
         b.   The notice shall:
            (1)   Identify with specificity each owner of record of real
property that will be affected by the proposed zoning map or map amendments;
            (2)   State the current zone in which the real property is located;
            (3)   State the proposed new zone for the real property;
            (4)   Provide information regarding or a reference to the proposed
regulations, prohibitions, and permitted uses that the property will be subject
to if the zoning map or map amendment is adopted;
            (5)   State that the owner of real property may no later than ten
(10) days after the day of the first public hearing file a written objection to
the inclusion of the owner's property in the proposed zoning map or map
amendment;
            (6)   State the address where the property owner should file the
protest;
            (7)   Notify the property owner that each written objection filed
with the county will be provided to the municipal legislative body; and
            (8)   State the location, date, and time of the public hearing
described in section 17-27a-502 of the Utah code.
         c.   If a county mails notice to a property owner in accordance with
subsection B2c(3) of this section for a public hearing on a zoning map or map
amendment, the notice required in this subsection B4 may be included in or part
of the notice described in subsection B2c(3) of this section rather than sent
separately.
      5.   The planning commission shall consider all written objections
received during their public hearing process and forward a copy of all such
objections to the county commissioners.
      6.   The county commission is designated as the land use authority for
zoning text or map amendments. The commission shall consider the proposed
zoning ordinance text or map amendment and the recommendation of the planning
commission pursuant to the procedures established by this section and Utah Code
Annotated. The county commission may approve the amendment, revise the proposed
amendment and approve the proposed amendment as revised, or reject the proposed
amendment. There is no minimum area or diversity of ownership requirement for a
zone designation. Neither the size of a zoning district nor the number of
landowners within the district may be used as evidence of the illegality of a
zoning district or the invalidity of a county decision.
   C.   Criteria For Approval: In considering a proposed amendment to the
zoning ordinance and map, the applicant shall identify, and the planning staff,
planning commission and the county commission shall consider, the following
factors:
      1.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the general plan;
      3.   Compatibility with the neighborhood;
      4.   What changes have occurred in the neighborhood since the zoning
ordinance and map or latest amendment was enacted;
      5.   Whether a change in the use for the affected properties will unduly
affect the uses of adjoining properties; and
      6.   Consider the interest of the applicant.
   D.   Effect Of Amendment: An amendment to the zoning ordinance and map shall
not authorize the development of land. After an amendment has been approved by
the county commission, no development shall occur until the required
development permits and licenses have been issued by the county. (Ord. 13-314,
7-8-2013)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Terms Defined
8-2-1: TERMS DEFINED:
For the purpose of applying the table of uses and rendering other decisions
required by this title, the uses identified in the table of uses and other
terms appearing in this title are hereby defined as follows:
ACCESSORY DWELLING: A dwelling unit located on the same parcel as a permitted
principal use which is secondary to the permitted principal use.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A subordinate structure detached from, but located on the
same lot as, the principal use, the use of which is incidental and accessory to
that of the principal use.
ADVERSELY AFFECTED PARTY: A person other than a land use applicant who either
owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land use
application or land use decision or who will suffer a damage different in kind
than, or an injury distinct from, that of the general community as a result of
the land use decision.
AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, local district, special service
district under Utah Code Annotated title 17D, chapter 1, special service
district act, school district, interlocal cooperation entity established under
Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 13, interlocal cooperation act, specified
property owner, property owners’ association, public utility or the Utah
department of transportation, if:
   A.   The entity’s services or facilities are likely to require expansion or
significant modification because of an intended use of land;
   B.   The entity has filed with the county a copy of the entity’s general or
long range plan; or
   C.   The entity has filed with the county a request for notice during the
same calendar year and before the county provides notice to an affected entity
in compliance with a requirement imposed under this title.
AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION/AGRICUL T-URAL FIELD STATION: An area with
associated accessory buildings and structures owned by an agency of the federal
or state government or educational institution for the raising of crops and the
raising and keeping of farm animals for the purpose of scientific study and
experimentation.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING AND STORAGE: The processing and storage of
agricultural products brought to the site, including, but not limited to,
cleaning, sorting, grading, packaging, milling, or storing of products which
are intended for direct human or animal consumption or use. This use does not
include the commercial slaughtering or the processing and packaging of meat and
poultry.
AGRICULTURAL RETAIL SALES: A location for the retail sale of horticultural
products which are grown and sold on site. Products can only be sold on a
seasonal basis with no permanent structure. Approval of the Utah department of
transportation or Duchesne County road department is required if said
agricultural retail sales facility has direct access from a state highway or
county road.
AIRPORT: Any area of land, water or both that:
   A.   Is used or is made available for landing and takeoff of aircraft;
   B.   Provides facilities for the shelter, supply and repair of aircraft and
handling of passengers and cargo; and
   C.   Meets the minimum requirements established by the operations division
of the Utah department of Transportation as to size and design, surface,
markings, equipment and operations.
AIRSTRIP: A runway without normal air base or airport facilities.
ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A lot or facility where the following conditions are
met: (a) animals have been, are or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) or more days in any twelve (12) month
period; and (b) crops, vegetation, forage growth, or post-harvest residues are
not sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or
facility.
APARTMENT: A multiple dwelling. See definition of dwelling, multiple-family.
APPEAL AUTHORITY: The person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use
application or a variance.
ASSISTED CARE CENTER: A facility that provides less than twenty four (24) hour
assisted care or supervision for five (5) or more persons, fourteen (14) years
of age and older, and who are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the
owner or operator, with or without compensation for such care, and with or
without stated educational purpose.
BAKERY: An establishment for the production of baked bread, cakes and similar
goods, primarily for sale to the public or to other commercial establishments.
BANK: A financial institution for the extension of credit, and the custody,
loan or exchange of money, which may have drive-through services.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is partly
below and partly above grade, and is located so that the vertical distance “B”
is greater than the vertical distance “A”. Where the vertical distance “A” is
greater than or equal to the vertical distance “B”, it is a story.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cb9fa328aa4472767ed70a13cac3772dc2403e68/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1060.gif]
 
BED AND BREAKFAST: An owner occupied dwelling offering transient lodging
accommodations where meals may be provided. A bed and breakfast may have no
more than five (5) guestrooms or serve more than ten (10) guests per night and
must be located to be served by adequate existing public services.
BOARDING HOUSE: A residential structure, a portion of which is used to
accommodate for compensation no more than three (3) boarders or roomers, not
including members of the owner’s immediate family.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the “grade” to the highest point of
the structure.
BUILDING MATERIALS OR GARDEN STORE: A facility for the sale of home, lawn and
garden supplies; lumber; firewood; fence posts; fencing; and other similar
materials. This use may include the outside storage of materials.
CABINET SHOP, CARPENTRY OR FURNITURE MAKING FACILITIES: A building for the
manufacturing, repairing or refinishing of furniture or wood products for
retail or wholesale.
CAMPGROUND: A privately owned area of land with accommodations for temporary or
transient occupancy upon which are located or may be placed tents and
recreational vehicles with customary accessory uses.
CAMPING TRAILER: A vehicle unit mounted on wheels and constructed with
collapsible partial side walls which fold when the unit is towed by another
vehicle and unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping or travel use, and has a floor area of less than two
hundred twenty (220) square feet, excluding built in equipment such as
wardrobes, closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures and bath or toilet
rooms.
CANNABIS PRODUCTION ESTABLISHMENT: A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis
processing facility, or an independent cannabis testing laboratory.
CAR WASH: A structure with machine or hand operated facilities used principally
for the cleaning, washing, polishing or waxing of motor vehicles.
CARETAKER DWELLING: An accessory dwelling unit located on the same parcel as a
permitted principal commercial or industrial use.
CEMETERY: A place designated for the burial or keeping of the remains of the
dead, whether human or animal, including crematories and mausoleums.
CHILD DAYCARE FACILITY/PRESCHO OL CENTER: Any facility operated by a person
qualified by the State of Utah which provides five (5) or more children under
fourteen (14) years of age with daycare and/or preschool instruction. This
definition includes the residential childcare provider category, as defined by
State law.
COMMERCIAL USES: Uses involving the sale, handling or disposition (other than
that included in the term “industrial uses”) of an article, substance,
commodity or service for livelihood or profit, including, but not limited to,
motels, public garages, office buildings, offices of doctors or other
professionals, outdoor advertising signs and/or structures, public stables,
recreation and amusement enterprises, places where commodities or services are
sold or offered for sale either by direct handling of merchandise or by
agreements to furnish them. It is the intention of Duchesne County to provide
for retail and wholesale commerce and commercial entertainment in convenient
locations to meet the daily need of families. This is designed for application
along paved County roads and/or State or Federal highways. Further
consideration is to provide opportunities for employment closer to residences
with corresponding reduction of travel time from home to work.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Territory that is jointly owned and used by a group of
people. It is not public because those who do not hold it in common can be
excluded. It is not private, because it has to be shared with others.
COMMUNITY LOCATION: A public or private school; a church; a public library; a
public playground; or a public park.
COMPLETE APPLICATION: A land use application that contains all of the
information required by this title, as determined by the Community Development
Administrator, and the applicable filing fee.
COMPOSTING FACILITY: A facility where organic materials are converted into a
humuslike material under process of biological decomposition or by mechanical
means. Normal backyard composting and composting incidental to farming
operations are exempted from this use.
CONDITIONAL USE: A land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the county, surrounding neighbors or adjacent land uses,
may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain
conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
CONTRACTOR SHOP/OFFICE: A facility providing for general building repair,
service and maintenance, such as, and including, installation of plumbing,
roofing, signs, electrical, air conditioning and heating.
CONVENIENCE STORE: Any retail establishment selling consumer products,
including prepackaged food and household items, having a gross floor area of
less than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
COUNTY: Duchesne County, Utah, and its authorized agents.
COUNTY COMMISSION: The Duchesne County board of commissioners, or their
authorized agents.
CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE MATERIALS: Sand, gravel, or rock aggregate.
CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE MATERIALS OPERATION: The extraction, excavation,
processing, or reprocessing of critical infrastructure materials.
CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE MATERIALS OPERATOR: A natural person, corporation,
association, partnership, receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian,
fiduciary, agent, or other organization or representative, either public or
private, including a successor, assign, affiliate, subsidiary, and related
parent company, that:
   A.   Owns, controls, or manages a critical infrastructure materials
operation; and
   B.   Has produced commercial quantities of critical infrastructure materials
from the critical infrastructure materials operations.
DEVELOPMENT: Any division of land through partitioning or subdivision. The
carrying out of any construction, the making of any material change in the use
or appearance of any structure or land, or a change in the intensity or type of
the use or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of a person’s major life activities, including a person having a record of
such impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment. Disability does
not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any federally controlled
substance, as defined in section 102 of the controlled substances act, 21 USC
802, or amendments thereto.
DISTRIBUTION CENTER: A building used primarily for the inside storage and
distribution of goods and materials, and the parking and storage of tractor and
trailer units.
DRILL SITE OWNER: An owner or owners of private surface in the county upon
which an oil or gas well site is proposed to be developed.
DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by four
(4) families, the structure having four (4) dwelling units.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
more than four (4) families.
DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by three
(3) families, the structure having three (3) dwelling units.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building arranged and designed to be occupied by two
(2) families, the structure having two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a structure designed for or occupied by one
family for living or sleeping purposes and having one but not more than one
kitchen or set of fixed cooking facilities and having its own sanitary
facilities.
EMERGENCY CARE FACILITY: A healthcare facility providing primarily outpatient
emergency care for the diagnosis and treatment of individuals.
EXOTIC ANIMALS: Any lion, tiger, leopard, cheetah, ocelot, or any other cat not
indigenous to Utah, except for domestic cat species (Felis catus). Any monkey,
ape, gorilla or other nonhuman primate. Any wolf or any canine not indigenous
to Utah, except the species Canis familiaris (domestic dog). Any bear, venomous
or nonindigenous snake and “killer bees”. The keeping of such animals on lands
within the County is prohibited, unless associated with a zoo or a facility
associated with the entertainment industry.
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION (E&P) WASTES: Those wastes resulting from the
drilling of and production from oil and gas wells as determined by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), prior to January 1, 1992, to be exempt
from subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons living together in a dwelling
unit. Family shall include persons, as defined in the Fair Housing Act of 1988,
living as a single housekeeping unit.
FARM: An area of not less than five (5) contiguous acres which is used for the
commercial production of farm crops and their storage, as well as the raising
thereon of farm poultry and farm animals for commercial purposes and dairy
farms. The term “farm” includes the operating of such an area for one or more
of the above uses with the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the
produce, and including accessory farm employee housing. “Farm” includes animal
feeding operations, but does not include concentrated animal feeding
operations, as defined in this section.
FISH FARM: The hatching and raising of fish for the purpose of harvesting and
sale, including recreational fishing operations.
FLARE GAS: Gas produced from an oil or gas well or gas processing facility
which might be flared or vented, if not otherwise put to beneficial use.
FLARE GAS POWER GENERATION: Electric power generated from Flare Gas. Flare gas
power generation may be used to power on-site operations, sold back to the
grid, or used for other energy-intensive operations or activities, whether such
power generation is utilized at the site where the Flare Gas is generated or at
other locations where the beneficial use of the Flare Gas Power Generation is
realized. This definition shall not include power generation at an oil and gas
drilling and production facility for uses incidental to oil and gas production.
FLARE GAS POWER GENERATION FACILITY: The generators and associated equipment
designed to generate electrical power using Flare Gas.
GENERAL PLAN: A document that a County adopts that sets forth general
guidelines for proposed future development of the unincorporated land within
the County.
GOLF COURSE: A recreational facility primarily used for the purpose of playing
golf, but which may include associated eating and drinking areas, retail sales
areas and staff offices.
GRADE: The elevation of the finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk
adjacent to the center point of a building elevation. For the purpose of
determining building height, the average of the grades on all sides of a
building shall be used in determining the grade.
GUEST RANCH: A facility, including either a single building or resort cabins,
which serves as a destination point for visitors and generally has accessory
recreational facilities for the use of guests.
HOME OCCUPATION: An accessory use consisting of a vocational activity conducted
inside a dwelling unit, conducted by the individuals who reside therein, with
up to five (5) full time equivalent (FTE) of nonresident employment (provided
adequate on site parking is available); provided, that the home occupation is
clearly subordinate to the use of the parcel for dwelling purposes, does not
change the character of the parcel and meets the following standards:
   A.   Does not include the outside storage of goods, materials or equipment.
   B.   Has signage limited to a nonilluminated, flush wall mounted
identification sign two (2) square feet or less in size.
   C.   The following occupations are allowed by conditional use permit in the
R-1/2, R-1 and A-2.5 zones, and permitted outright in the other zones:
appliance repair, cabinet making, dance instruction to more than two (2)
individuals at a time, firearms sales and services, food catering, hair salons,
unless limited to two (2) stations, motorized garden tool repair, such as, but
not limited to, lawn mowers, chain saws and leaf blowers, pest control,
painting of vehicles, trailers, boats, and like vehicles/vessels, photo
developing, real estate or brokerage offices, upholstery and furniture repair,
vehicle related uses such as, but not limited to, the cleaning, dismantling,
embellishment, installation, manufacture, repair or service, sale, lease, or
rental, and towing of vehicles (the dispatching of vehicles such as limousines,
taxicabs, and ambulances is allowed as a home business so long as those
vehicles need not regularly come into the vicinity of the subject residence),
welding, nursing homes, healthcare, including physicians, psychologists,
chiropractors, hypnotics and massage therapists.
   D.   Complies with all required federal and state licensing requirements.
HOSPITAL: An institution for the diagnosis, treatment or other care of human
ailments. The term hospital is deemed to include sanatorium, medical clinic,
rest home, nursing home and convalescent home.
HOTEL: A building or group of buildings, other than a motel or boarding house,
containing individual guestrooms, suites of guestrooms and dwelling units, and
which furnishes services customarily provided by hotels, which may include
reception and convention facilities.
IMPACTED OWNER: The record owner of a primary or secondary dwelling, or
building open to the public that is located within six hundred sixty feet
(660') of the wellhead of an oil or gas drilling and production site.
INDOOR RECREATION: An entirely enclosed building or facility which offers
commercial indoor sport activities, including, but not limited to, tennis,
bowling, skating, horse riding or similar activities, but not including video
game arcades. This use may include associated eating and drinking areas, retail
sales areas and staff offices.
INDUSTRIAL USES: Uses involving the manufacture, fabrication, processing,
reduction or destruction of any article, substance or commodity, or any other
treatment thereof, in such a manner as to change the form, character or
appearance thereof.
JUNKYARD: The use of any lot, parcel or land for the storage, keeping or
abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap material, or for the
dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or
machinery. All junkyards shall be screened by natural objects, plantings,
fences, or other appropriate means so the junkyard is not visible from the main
traveled way.
KENNEL: Any establishment at which four (4) or more dogs and cats are bred or
raised for sale, boarded or cared for commercially or on a nonprofit basis
(exclusive of a veterinary clinic).
LABOR CAMP: One or more buildings, structures, recreational vehicles, modular
units or related facilities together with surrounding grounds set aside for use
as living quarters for groups of migrant laborers or temporary housing
facilities intended to accommodate construction, mining, energy, utility or
demolition workers. This definition shall not include facilities located on
individual oil and gas well pads.
LANDFILL: A land disposal site where solid waste is disposed of using sanitary
landfilling techniques, including, but not limited to, an engineered method of
disposing of solid waste on land in a manner that does not create a nuisance or
health hazard.
LARGE CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: An animal feeding operation that
stables or confines as many as or more than the numbers of animals specified in
any of the following categories:
   A.   Seven hundred (700) mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry;
   B.   One thousand (1,000) veal calves;
   C.   One thousand (1,000) cattle other than mature dairy cows or veal
calves, with “cattle” including heifers, steers, bulls, and cow calf pairs;
   D.   Two thousand five hundred (2,500) swine each weighing fifty-five (55)
pounds or more;
   E.   Ten thousand (10,000) swine each weighing less than fifty-five (55)
pounds;
   F.   Five hundred (500) horses;
   G.   Ten thousand (10,000) sheep or lambs;
   H.   Fifty-five thousand (55,000) turkeys;
   I.   Thirty thousand (30,000) laying hens or broilers, if the animal feeding
operation uses a liquid manure handling system;
   J.   One hundred twenty-five thousand (125,000) chickens, other than laying
hens, if the animal feeding operation uses other than a liquid manure handling
system;
   K.   Eighty-two thousand (82,000) laying hens, if the animal feeding
operation uses other than a liquid manure handling system;
   L.   Thirty thousand (30,000) ducks, if the animal feeding operation uses
other than a liquid manure handling system; or
   M.    Five thousand (5,000) ducks, if the animal feeding operation uses a
liquid manure handling system.
LAUNDRY, SELF-SERVICE: A building within which clothes washing and drying
machines, either coin operated or attendant operated, are provided on a rental
basis for use by individuals doing their own laundry and dry cleaning.
LIVESTOCK: Horses, mules, jackasses, cattle, llamas, sheep, goats, swine,
domesticated fowl and any furbearing animal, bred and maintained commercially
or otherwise, within pens, cages and hutches.
LIVESTOCK AUCTION FACILITY: A structure, or structures, with associated pens,
yards and corrals, and loading and unloading facilities, used for the sale of
livestock.
LOT: A unit or parcel of land that is created by a subdivision of land.
LOT, CORNER: A lot, at least two (2) adjacent sides of which abut public roads.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance measured between the midpoints of the front
and rear lot lines.
LOT, FLAG: A lot that is mostly separated from a road by other lots but that
has a long, narrow extension (e.g., flagpole), at least twenty feet (20') in
width, that reaches to the street.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot or parcel of land other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: In the case of an interior lot, the lot line separating the
lot from the public road; and in the case of a corner lot, it may be either lot
line. In the case of a flag lot, it may be either the lot line parallel to the
public road providing access or the lot line parallel to the flagpole.
LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line. For a triangular shaped lot, the rear lot line shall mean a line
having a length of not less than ten feet (10') within the lot, which is
parallel to the front lot line, or parallel to the chord of a curved front lot
line, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot boundary line that is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth line at a distance midway between the front and rear
lot lines.
MAJOR FACILITY OF A PUBLIC UTILITY: Any electric transmission lines (greater
than 115,000 volts), power plants or substations of electric utilities; major
gas regulator stations, transmission and gathering pipelines and storage areas
of utilities providing natural gas or petroleum derivatives; and their
appurtenant facilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or more sections, which,
in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40)
body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is four hundred (400) or
more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling, with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to
the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning
and electrical systems. Manufactured homes constructed on or after June 15,
1976, shall be identifiable by the manufacturer’s data plate bearing the date
the unit was manufactured and a HUD label attached to the exterior of the home
certifying the home was manufactured to HUD standards.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any place where two (2) or more manufactured dwellings
are parked within five hundred feet (500') from one another on a lot, tract or
parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to
rent space or keep space for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid or to
be paid for the rental or use of facilities, or to offer space free in
connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person.
MEAT OR POULTRY PROCESSING FACILITY: A facility for the commercial processing
of meat and poultry for human consumption, including, but not limited to, the
slaughtering, butchering, cutting, dressing and packaging of meat and poultry
products.
MEDICAL CANNABIS PHARMACY: A person that:
   A.   1.   Acquires or intends to acquire:
         a.   Cannabis in a medicinal dosage form or a cannabis product in a
medicinal dosage form from a cannabis processing facility; or
         b.   A medical cannabis device; or
      2.   Possesses cannabis in a medicinal dosage form, a cannabis product in
a medicinal dosage form, or a medical cannabis device; and
   B.   Sells or intends to sell cannabis in a medicinal dosage form, a
cannabis product in a medicinal dosage form, or a medical cannabis device to a
medical cannabis cardholder.
MEMBERSHIP CLUB: A facility owned or operated by a group of people organized
for a common educational, service or recreational purpose. These clubs may be
characterized by certain membership qualifications, payment of fees or dues,
and regular meetings and activities. This may include hunting and gun clubs,
but does not include private clubs.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit built prior to June 15,
1976, in accordance with a State Mobile Home Code which existed prior to the
HUD Code.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any place where two (2) or more mobile homes are parked
within five hundred feet (500') from one another on a lot, tract or parcel of
land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or
keep space for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for
the rental or use of facilities, or to offer space free in connection with
securing the trade or patronage of such person.
MOTEL: A building or group of buildings containing guestrooms or dwelling
units, some or all of which have a separate entrance leading directly from the
outside of the building with a garage or parking space located on the lot and
designed, used or intended wholly or in part for the accommodations of
automobile transients. “Motel” includes motor courts, motor lodges and tourist
courts, but not hotels, mobile home parks or travel trailer parks.
MOTOR HOME: A vehicular unit built on or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis cab or van which is an integral
part of the complete vehicle, and has a floor area of less than two hundred
twenty (220) square feet, excluding built-in equipment such as wardrobes,
closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures and bath or toilet rooms.
NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: Any structure or improvement that was lawfully
established and in compliance with all applicable laws at the time this title
or any amendment thereto became effective, but which, due to the application of
this title, or any amendment thereto, no longer complies with all the
applicable regulations and standards of the zone in which the structure or
improvement is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any use of land or property that was lawfully established
and in compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws at the time this
title or any amendment thereto became effective but which, due to application
of this title, or any amendment thereto, no longer complies with all of the
applicable regulations and standards of the zone in which the use is located.
NURSERY: A facility including one or more greenhouses where young tender
flowers, vegetables, shrubs and trees are grown and sold either wholesale or
retail.
NURSING HOME OR CONVALESCENT CARE FACILITY: A facility which provides twenty
four (24) hour residential care to persons who are not related by blood,
marriage or adoption to the owner, operator or manager of the facility, and who
do not meet the definition of “family”, as defined in this section. A nursing
home or convalescent care facility provides some level of skilled nursing or
medical service to the residents.
OFF PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN: A sign designed or intended to direct attention
to a business, product or service that is not sold, offered or existing on the
premises where the sign is located.
OFFICIAL MAP: A map drawn by county authorities and recorded in the county
recorder’s office that:
   A.   Shows actual and proposed rights of way, centerline alignments and
setbacks for highways and other transportation facilities;
   B.   Provides a basis for restricting development in designated rights of
way or between designated setbacks to allow government authorities time to
purchase or otherwise reserve the land; and
   C.   Has been adopted as an element of the county general plan.
OIL AND GAS DRILLING AND PRODUCTION SITE: The area of land used for the purpose
of advancing a wellbore into the earth’s substrata for the purpose of
discovery, development and/or production of oil or gas, and all associated
surface and sub-surface equipment, including, but not limited to, casing,
tubing, wellhead equipment, production equipment without limitation, pumps,
heater treaters, separators, tank batteries, meter houses, and other facilities
necessary or convenient for testing, completing and producing oil or gas from a
well bore on the site. This definition also includes compressor stations and
water handling facilities.
ON PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN: A sign designed or intended to direct attention
to a business, product or service that is sold, offered or existing on the
premises where the sign is located.
OPEN RANGE: Only those lands specifically designated as “open range” under
state or federal law or regulation.
PARCEL OF LAND: A contiguous quantity of land as assessed by a tax
identification number and of record.
PARK TRAILER: A vehicle built on a single chassis, mounted on wheels, designed
to provide seasonal or temporary living quarters, which may be connected to
utilities for operation of installed fixtures and appliances, of such a
construction as to permit setup by persons without special skills using only
hand tools which may include lifting, pulling and supporting devices, and a
gross trailer area not exceeding four hundred (400) square feet.
PLACE OF RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY: A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or other
permanent building used as a place of assembly for religious worship or
services, or other religious activities. One accessory dwelling for the housing
of the pastor or similar leader of the church and their family will be
considered customary and incidental as a part of this use. Other permitted
accessory uses include religion classes, weddings, funerals, childcare and meal
programs. Private or parochial school education for prekindergarten through
Grade 12, or higher education facilities, shall not be considered accessory
uses.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A flexible approach to zoning with the
opportunity to shift density to developable portions of a property or to mix
residential and commercial uses.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Duchesne County Planning Commission.
POWER PLANT: An electrical energy generating facility with generating capacity
of more than fifty (50) megawatts and any appurtenant facilities.
PRIVATE CLUB: A social club, recreational, athletic or kindred association
which maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which liquor is or will be
stored, consumed or sold.
PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL FACILITY: Buildings and uses for educational or research
activities which has a curriculum for technical or vocational training,
kindergarten, elementary, secondary or higher education, operated by a private
entity, which may include residential facilities for faculty, staff and
students.
PRODUCED WATER DISPOSAL FACILITY: A commercial disposal facility consisting of
a lined pit or treatment facility whose owner receives compensation from others
for the temporary storage and disposal of produced water, drilling fluids,
drill cuttings, completion fluids, and any other exempt exploration and
production wastes. Does not include an injection well.
PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES: Buildings and uses for educational or research
activities which are operated by a public entity and have curriculum for
technical or vocational training, kindergarten, elementary, secondary or higher
education, including facilities for faculty, staff and students.
PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting that is required to be open to the public under Utah
Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings.
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE: Territory that is owned and managed by a public agency for
the public benefit.
PUBLIC USES: A use operated exclusively by a public body or a quasi-public
body, such use having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or
general welfare, and including recreational facilities, administrative and
service facilities and public utilities, including water and sewer lines and
facilities, gas and electricity lines and facilities, cable television lines
and facilities and telecommunications facilities, but excluding prisons and
animal control facilities.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system, either publicly or privately owned, providing
water for human consumption and other domestic uses, which has at least fifteen
(15) service connections, or regularly services an average of at least twenty
five (25) individuals daily for at least sixty (60) days out of the year.
RECEPTION HALL/RECEPTION CENTER: A facility for the holding of events,
including, but not limited to, weddings, wedding receptions, community meetings
and group gatherings.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit, other than a mobile home, primarily
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation use,
which is either self-propelled or pulled by another vehicle. Recreational
vehicle includes a travel trailer, a camping trailer, a motor home, a fifth
wheel trailer and a van.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A plot of land upon which two (2) or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy
by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreational or vacation purposes.
RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER: A center for the acceptance and temporary storage
of recyclable materials to be transferred to a processing facility. Recycling
collection centers involve no more than three (3) collection containers up to
forty (40) cubic yards in total size. Collection centers located in parking
lots may not occupy required parking spaces. A collection center must be
arranged so as not to impede traffic flow. The operator of the collection
center shall remove products stored at the site at least once a week. The
operator of the collection center shall keep the collection center in proper
repair and the exterior must have a neat, clean appearance. Automated can
recycling machines are limited to two (2) per site.
RECYCLING PROCESS FACILITY: A facility where recyclable and organic materials
are collected, stored and processed. Processing includes, but is not limited
to, baling, briquetting, compacting, flattening, crushing, mechanical sorting,
shredding, and cleaning. Facilities where the sole purpose is to utilize
recyclable materials in manufacturing an end product which does not require
further processing shall be considered a general industrial and not a recycling
use. Organic materials are limited to tree limbs, leaves and grass clippings
only.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES: A facility as defined by
Utah Code Annotated 17-27a-103, as amended.
RESORT LODGE: A facility, including either a single building or resort cabins,
which serves as a destination point for visitors, and generally has accessory
recreational facilities for the use of guests. Guest residency is limited to no
more than ninety (90) days.
RESOURCE FAMILY HOME: A home licensed to provide services to a child in the
custody of the State and includes a foster care home and a legal risk home.
RESTAURANT: A place of business where a variety of food and drink is prepared
and served to the public for consumption on and off the premises.
RETAIL STORE: An establishment for the retail sale of merchandise. A retail
store includes, but is not limited to, antique or art shops, clothing,
department, drug, dry goods, florist, furniture, gift, grocery, hardware,
hobby, office supply, paint, pet, shoe, sporting or toy stores.
RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS: A commercial establishment in which:
   A.   The sale of tobacco products accounts for more than thirty five percent
(35%) of the total annual gross receipts for the establishment;
   B.   Food and beverage products, excluding gasoline sales, is less than
forty five percent (45%) of the total annual gross receipts for the
establishment; and
   C.   The establishment is not licensed as a pharmacy under title 58, chapter
17b, Pharmacy Practice Act, of the Utah Code.
SAWMILL: A facility for the storage, sales and milling of forest products.
Cutting of firewood is not defined as a sawmill.
SECURE TREATMENT FACILITY: Twenty four (24) hour specialized residential
treatment or care for persons whose current functioning is such that they
cannot live independently or in a less restrictive environment. Secure
treatment differs from residential treatment to the extent that it requires
intensive supervision, locked doors and other security measures which are
imposed on residents with neither their consent nor control.
SETBACK: The line which defines the width or depth of a required yard. Such
setback line is parallel with the property line. No portion of the building
shall project into such yard, except as provided for in this title.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: A nude or seminude entertainment business, adult
theater, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult escort services,
outcall services, adult bookstore or adult video store.
SITE PLAN: A document or map that may be required by a county during a
preliminary review preceding the issuance of a building permit to demonstrate
that an owner’s or developer’s proposed development activity meets a land use
requirement.
SPECIFIED PUBLIC UTILITY: An electrical corporation, gas corporation or
telephone corporation, as those terms are defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 54-2-1.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The “actual start”
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways, excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms,
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a usable or unused underfloor space is more than six feet (6')
above “grade”, as defined in this section, for more than fifty percent (50%) of
the total perimeter, or is more than twelve feet (12') above “grade” as defined
in this section, at any point, such usable or unused underfloor space shall be
considered as a story.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires a fixed location on
the ground, or is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure either:
      1.   Before the start of construction of the improvement or repair; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, “substantial improvement”
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term does not however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
State or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which are the
minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   C.   The term “substantial improvement” also includes structures that have
incurred “repetitive loss” or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual
amount of work performed.
SUBSURFACE MINING: The extraction of natural mineral deposits by underground
methods, including the milling and processing of the ore produced and the
reprocessing of tailings.
SURFACE MINING: The extraction of earth materials by mining directly from the
exposed deposits or other materials, including, but not limited to, such
processing as open cut mining, open pit mining, strip mining, gravel pits,
quarrying and dredging.
TELECOMMUNICAT IONS SITE/FACILITY: A facility used for the transmission or
reception of electromagnetic or electro-optic information, which is placed on a
structure. This use does not include radio frequency equipment which has an
effective radiated power of one hundred (100) watts or less. This use is not
required to comply with the minimum lot size requirement for the zoning
district in which it is located.
TEMPORARY USE: Fireworks stands, Christmas tree sale lots, produce stands and
similar activities which are open to the public and are scheduled to occur over
a period not to exceed ninety (90) days in any calendar year, and including
uses incidental to construction.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Includes the following:
   A.   Any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette as defined in section 76-
10-101 of the Utah Code;
   B.   A tobacco product as defined in section 59-14-102 of the Utah Code,
including:
      1.   Chewing tobacco; or
      2.   Any substitute for a tobacco product, including flavoring or
additives to tobacco; and
   C.   Tobacco paraphernalia as defined in section 76-10-104.1 of the Utah
Code.
UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE: Vehicles which are temporarily unlicensed and owned
by the property owner and are a complete vehicle without parts missing.
UTILITY SERVICE FACILITY: Any electrical distribution lines, natural gas
distribution lines, minor gas regulator stations, cable television lines,
telegraph and telephone lines, and gathering lines or other minor service
facilities. This use is not required to comply with minimum lot size
requirement for the district in which it is located, but no buildings are
allowed, and the use is limited to the following sizes: a) gas lines less than
twelve inches (12"); and b) electric lines of less than one hundred fifteen
thousand (115,000) volts.
VEHICLE SALES/RENTAL LOT: An area designated for the sale or rental of three
(3) or more motor vehicles a year. Vehicles include, but are not limited to,
cars, trucks, boats, recreation vehicles and trailers.
VEHICLE SERVICE CENTER/SERVICE STATION: A building or use devoted to the retail
sale of fuels, lubricants and other supplies for motor vehicles, including
minor repair activities which are subordinate to the sale of petroleum
products.
VESTED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE MATERIALS OPERATION: Critical infrastructure
materials operation operating in accordance with a legal nonconforming use or a
permit issued by the county that existed or was conducted or otherwise engaged
in before:
   A.   The county prohibits, restricts, or otherwise limits the critical
infrastructure materials operations; and
   B.   January 1, 2019.
VETERINARY CLINIC: A facility for the diagnosis, treatment, hospitalization and
boarding of animals.
WELL SITE: The location upon which an oil or gas well and appurtenant
facilities are placed or proposed to be placed; commonly referred to as the
well pad.
YARD: An open space on a lot or parcel of land, other than a court, unoccupied
and unobstructed by a building from the ground upward.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot or parcel of
land. The depth of a required front yard shall be a specified horizontal
distance between the front lot line, where the front lot line is coterminous
with the property line of a fully widened road or highway, or the distance
between the ultimate right-of-way line of a partially widened road or highway
as depicted on the official map and a line parallel thereto on the lot or
parcel of land. In the case of a flag lot, the front yard shall be either the
yard located parallel to the road providing access, or the yard located
parallel to and abutting the flagpole.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot or parcel of
land. The depth of a required rear yard shall be a specified horizontal
distance between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot or
parcel of land.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the required front yard, or the front lot
line where no front yard is required, to the required rear yard or to the rear
lot line where no rear yard is required. The width of a required side yard
shall be a specified horizontal distance between each side lot line and a line
parallel thereto on the lot or parcel of land. Where a side yard is bounded by
a road or highway, the width of such required side yard shall be a specified
horizontal distance between the side lot line on the road or highway side,
where said side lot line is coterminous with the road line of a fully widened
road or highway, or the distance between the ultimate road right-of-way line of
a partially widened road or highway, as depicted on the official map, and a
line parallel thereto on the lot or parcel of land.
ZONING MAP: A map, adopted as part of a land use ordinance, that depicts land
use zones, overlays or districts.
ZONING MAP AMENDMENT: A land use request that seeks to change the zoning
designation of land within Duchesne County. The Duchesne County Commission is
the Land Use Authority for zoning map amendments, which involve a discretionary
legislative decision after a recommendation by the Planning Commission.
ZONING TEXT AMENDMENT: A land use request that seeks to change the text within
the Duchesne County zoning ordinance. The Duchesne County Commission is the
Land Use Authority for zoning text amendments, which involve a discretionary
legislative decision after a recommendation by the Planning Commission.
(1998 Code ch. 17.08; amd. Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008; 2010 Code; Ord. 10-286, 1-
31-2011; Ord. 12-295, 5-14-2012; Ord. 12-308, 5-13-2013; Ord. 13-314, 7-8-2013;
Ord. 14-331, 12-1-2014; Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016; Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018; Ord.
19-373, 9-7-2019; Ord. 20-378, 8-24-2020; Ord. 22-392, 1-31-2022; Ord. 22-398,
6-11-2022; Ord. 24-407, 7-8-2024; Ord. 24-409, 11-18-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Decision Making And Administrative Bodies
8-3-2: Board Of County Commissioners
8-3-3: Planning Commission
8-3-4: Board Of Adjustment
8-3-5: Zoning Administrator
8-3-6: Staff Support
8-3-7: Relief From Personal Liability
8-3-8: Meetings And Public Hearings
8-3-1: DECISION MAKING AND ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES:
The decision making bodies and officials identified within this title have
responsibilities for implementing and administering the county general plan and
this title. Other county departments, bodies and officials may have specific
responsibilities related to the general plan and are identified when
appropriate. (1998 Code § 17.04.010)
8-3-2: BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
The board of county commissioners ("county commission") shall have the
following powers and duties:
   A.   To adopt the county general plan and all elements of the general plan;
   B.   To initiate amendments to the county general plan, and all elements of
the general plan;
   C.   To approve, deny, or to amend and approve applications for development
approval and amendments to this title and map;
   D.   To render, or to appoint a hearing officer to render, a determination
pursuant to the provisions of this title, if an applicant asserts a deprivation
of, or has been subject to, a taking of property without just compensation or
asserts some other invalidity by the passage of this title;
   E.   To establish a fee schedule by resolution for applications for
development approval, zone district amendments and all other approvals, permits
and licenses required by this title;
   F.   To designate and appoint an administrative official to decide routine
and uncontested matters which otherwise would be heard by the board of
adjustment;
   G.   To act as the appeal authority to hear appeals of final decisions of
the planning commission for conditional use permits;
   H.   To take such other action not expressly delegated to the zoning
administrator, planning commission or the board of adjustment that may be
desirable and necessary to implement the provisions of the county general plan;
and
   I.   Revocation of building permits. (1998 Code § 17.04.020)
8-3-3: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Creation; Statute Authority: There is hereby created and established a
county planning commission per Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-301 et seq.
(1998 Code § 17.04.031)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The planning commission shall be an advisory body to
the county commission pertaining to the county land use development and
management act, Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 27a. The planning
commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments thereto to the
county commission;
      2.   Recommend zoning ordinances and maps, and amendments thereto to the
county commission;
      3.   Recommend subdivision regulations and amendments thereto to the
county commission;
      4.   Recommend approval or denial of final subdivision plat applications
to the county commission;
      5.   Advise the county commission on matters as the county commission may
direct;
      6.   Decide land use matters as directed by the county commission,
including the approval or denial of conditional use permit applications 1 ;
      7.   Recommend an appropriate delegation of power to at least one
designated land use authority to hear and act on a land use application;
      8.   Recommend an appropriate delegation of power to at least one
designated land use authority to hear and act on an appeal from a decision of
the land use authority;
      9.   Recommend application processes that:
         a.   May include designation of routine land use matters that, upon
application and proper notice, will receive informal streamlined review and
action if the application is uncontested; and
         b.   Protect the rights of each:
            (1)   Land use applicant and adversely affected party to require
formal consideration of any application by a land use authority;
            (2)   Land use applicant or adversely affected party to appeal a
land use authority's decision to a separate appeal authority; and
            (3)   Participant to be heard in each public hearing on a contested
application. (1998 Code § 17.04.032)
         c.   Required Public Hearings: Before making a recommendation to the
county commission on an item described in subsection B (1-4) above, the
planning commission shall hold a public hearing in accordance with section 17-
27a-404 of the Utah Code.
         d.   The county commission may adopt, modify or reject the planning
commission's recommendation.
         e.   The county commission may consider the planning commission's
failure to make a timely recommendation as a negative recommendation.
   C.   Qualifications For Membership: Members of the planning commission shall
be appointed by the county commission from the qualified electors of the
county. (1998 Code § 17.04.033)
   D.   Membership; Appointment, Removal, Terms And Vacancies:
      1.   The planning commission shall be composed of seven (7) members,
appointed by the county commission from among the qualified electors,
representing the county as follows: one member each from the following areas:
Fruitland, Tabiona, Duchesne, Upper Country, Neola, Roosevelt-Myton, and the
county at large.
      2.   The county commission, after finding cause, may remove any member of
the planning commission for violation of this title or any policies or
procedures adopted by the planning commission following receipt of a written
complaint filed against the member. The county commission shall provide the
member with a hearing, if requested.
      3.   Members of the planning commission may be compensated on a per diem
basis, based upon meetings actually attended and reasonable and necessary
expenses, as determined by the county commission.
      4.   All members shall serve a term of four (4) years. No member shall
serve more than two (2) consecutive terms.
      5.   At an annual organizational meeting, the members of the planning
commission shall elect one of their members as chair and one of their members
as vice chair. In the absence of the chair, the vice chair shall act as chair
and shall have all powers of the chair. The chair shall serve a term of one
year. No member shall serve as chair for more than two (2) consecutive years.
      6.   The chair, or in the chair's absence the vice chair, shall be in
charge of all proceedings before the planning commission and shall take such
action as shall be necessary to preserve order and the integrity of all
proceedings before the planning commission. (1998 Code § 17.04.034)
   E.   Recording Secretary: The county commission appoints the office
specialist of the planning, zoning and community development department to act
as the recording secretary to serve the planning commission. The recording
secretary shall keep the minutes of all proceedings of the planning commission,
which minutes shall be the official record of all proceedings before the
planning commission, attested to by a majority vote of the members of the
commission. The Recording Secretary shall maintain all records of Planning
Commission meetings, hearings and proceedings and handle the correspondence of
the Planning Commission. (1998 Code § 17.04.035)
   F.   Quorum And Necessary Vote: No meeting of the Planning Commission may be
called to order, nor may any business be transacted, without a quorum
consisting of at least four (4) members of the Planning Commission being
present (no more than 1 of which may be present via electronic means such as a
conference call). The Chair or Vice Chair shall be included for purposes of
establishing a quorum and shall act as a voting member of the Planning
Commission. All actions shall require the vote of a majority of the total
members of the Planning Commission being present.
   G.   Meetings, Hearings And Procedure:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
This shall be noticed on the County Administrative Building bulletin board, and
during December of each year, the subsequent year's scheduled meetings shall be
published in the local paper.
      2.   Special meetings may be requested by the County Commission, the
Chair of the Planning Commission or the Planning Director.
      3.   If a matter is postponed due to lack of a quorum, the Chair shall
reschedule the matter to the next available Planning Commission meeting. The
Recording Secretary shall notify interested parties and all members of the
Planning Commission of the date of the continued meeting.
      4.   The Planning Commission follows "Robert's Rules of Order", tenth
edition, for parliamentary procedure and order. A copy of these rules is
available for review at the County Administration Building. The following rules
of order and procedure are to be read by the Planning Commission Chair at the
start of public meetings:
         a.   The Planning Commission will open public hearings today to
consider the matters listed on the agenda.
         b.   State law designates these hearings as "quasi-judicial" hearings;
therefore, "courtroom style" decorum is expected. Planning Commission ex parte
(prehearing) contacts must be disclosed. Pursuant to Utah Code section 17-27a-
301 requirements for ethical behavior, are there any members of the commission
who wish to announce prehearing contacts, site visits or conflicts of interest?
         c.   The hearings will be conducted as follows:
            (1)   Staff will present a report that includes applicable
ordinance criteria and standards for the matter under consideration in the
application. Staff will make a recommendation whether the request should be
approved, approved with conditions or denied.
            (2)   The Chair will accept testimony relating to the application.
The Chair may state a time limit for testimony. To be most effective, testimony
should be directed toward the applicable ordinance criteria.
            (3)   The proceedings are being recorded and will be transcribed to
written minutes. Thus, only one person should be speaking at a time.
            (4)   When testifying, please step to the podium and state your
name and mailing address.
            (5)   To ensure compliance with Utah Code section 17-27a-301
requirements for civil discourse, the audience shall remain quiet while the
hearing is in progress. The Planning Commission may remove persons from the
meeting if they create a disruption to the orderly conduct of the meeting.
Unacceptable conduct includes the utterance of loud, threatening or abusive
language, whistling, clapping, booing or similar disruptive acts.
            (6)   The applicant will be invited to speak first, followed by
proponents, then by opponents, and then by any parties neutral to the
application. Proponents, then opponents, will be provided an opportunity to
clarify any issues or to rebut testimony.
            (7)   Members of the Planning Commission may ask questions of the
staff or hearing participants at any time. The Chair will then close the
hearing or continue the hearing to a specified time and place.
            (8)   All decisions must be based on findings from the staff report
or evidence and testimony received which relate to the criteria of the land use
decision.
            (9)   Decisions of the planning commission may be appealed to the
Duchesne County commission within ten (10) days. (Ord. 12-305, 11-19-2012; amd.
Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018; Ord. 20-378, 8-24-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 13 of this title.
8-3-4: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Creation; Statute Authority: There is hereby created and established an
appeal authority known as the county board of adjustment, per Utah Code
Annotated section 17-27a-701 et seq. (1998 Code § 17.04.041)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The board of adjustment shall hear and decide:
         a.   Appeals from final administrative decisions of the zoning
administrator applying the provisions of this title;
         b.   Variances from the terms of this title;
         c.   Interpretations of a zoning district boundary line;
         d.   Requests for the issuance of a building permit authorizing the
reconstruction, remodeling, expansion or enlargement of a nonconforming
building, structure or land use;
         e.   Building permit denials based upon a failure to comply with a
zoning or subdivision ordinance requirement providing the applicant presents:
            (1)   Evidence of Tri-County health department approval;
            (2)   Evidence that the property is served by a deeded right of way
(at least 33 feet wide) from an existing county road or state highway;
            (3)   A record of survey.
      2.   The board of adjustment shall not have power, jurisdiction or
authority to consider any of the following:
         a.   Variances to any of the standards governing approval of
subdivisions, conditional use permits, supplementary regulations as established
herein, Tri-County health department, or building permit requirements; or
         b.   Variances of unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-
imposed or economic. (1998 Code § 17.04.042)
   C.   Qualifications For Membership: Members of the board of adjustment shall
be appointed by the county commission from the qualified electors of the
county. (1998 Code § 17.04.043)
   D.   Membership; Appointment, Removal, Terms And Vacancies:
      1.   The board of adjustment shall be composed of five (5) members.
      2.   Members of the board of adjustment may be compensated on a per diem
basis, based upon meetings actually attended and reasonable and necessary
expenses, as determined by the county commission.
      3.   All members shall serve a term of five (5) years. No member shall
serve more than two (2) consecutive terms.
      4.   The county commission, after finding cause, may remove any member of
the board of adjustment for violation of this title or any policies or
procedures adopted by the board of adjustment following receipt of a written
complaint filed against the member, or other misconduct determined by the
commissioners. The county commission shall provide the member with a hearing,
if requested.
      5.   At an annual organizational meeting, the members of the board of
adjustment shall elect one of their members as chair and one of their members
as vice chair. In the absence of the chair, the vice chair shall act as chair
and shall have all powers of the chair. The chair and vice chair shall serve a
term of one year. No member shall serve as chair for more than two (2)
consecutive years.
      6.   The chair, or in the chair's absence the vice chair of the board of
adjustment, may administer oaths, shall be in charge of all proceedings before
the board of adjustment, and shall take such action as shall be necessary to
preserve order and the integrity of all proceedings before the board of
adjustment. (1998 Code § 17.04.044)
   E.   Recording Secretary: The county commission appoints the office
specialist of the planning, zoning and community development department to act
as the recording secretary to serve the board of adjustment. The recording
secretary shall keep the minutes of all proceedings of the board of adjustment,
which minutes shall be the official record of all proceedings before the board
of adjustment, attested to by a majority of the members of the board of
adjustment voting. The recording secretary shall maintain all records of board
of adjustment meetings, hearings and proceedings and handle the correspondence
of the board of adjustment. (1998 Code § 17.04.045)
   F.   Necessary Vote: All actions shall require a vote of a majority of the
members of the board present at a meeting at which a quorum (3 members) is
present. (1998 Code § 17.04.046)
   G.   Meetings, Hearings And Procedure:
      1.   Regular meetings of the board of adjustment shall be held as
required.
      2.   Special meetings may be requested by the county commission, the
chair of the board of adjustment or the zoning administrator.
      3.   If a matter is postponed due to a lack of a quorum, the chair of the
board of adjustment shall reschedule the matter to the next available meeting.
The recording secretary shall notify all interested parties and all members of
the board of adjustment of the date of the meeting. (1998 Code § 17.04.047)
8-3-5: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The county commission appoints the director of planning, zoning and community
development department, who may further designate a representative, to carry
out the responsibilities of the zoning administrator. It is the responsibility
of the zoning administrator to ensure all processes, procedures and other
provisions of this title are consistently and equitably applied and to effect
the general administration and enforcement of this title. (1998 Code §
17.04.050)
8-3-6: STAFF SUPPORT:
The staff of the county planning, zoning and community development department
shall perform the planning functions of the county and shall provide
recommendations on all amendments to the general plan and all applications for
development approval, permits, licenses and appeals, and shall perform all such
other functions as may be requested by the county commission, the planning
commission and board of adjustment, as authorized. In addition, the county
surveyor shall serve as an ex officio or advisory member of the board of
adjustment. Other county departments and staff shall provide additional support
and assistance to the board of county commissioners, planning commission and
board of adjustment as required. (1998 Code § 17.04.060)
8-3-7: RELIEF FROM PERSONAL LIABILITY:
The zoning administrator, any member of the planning commission or the board of
adjustment, the building official, inspector or staff, or planning and zoning
staff officials of the county who act in good faith and without malice in the
discharge of their duties within the official capacity provided by this title
and title 9 of this code, are relieved of all personal liability for any damage
that may accrue to persons or property as a result of such acts or alleged
failure to act. Further, the official shall not be held liable for any costs in
any action, suit or proceedings that may be instituted by the official in the
enforcement of this title and title 9 of this code. Defense costs and insurance
shall be the responsibility of the county. (1998 Code § 17.04.070)
8-3-8: MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS:
All meetings and hearings of the county commission, planning commission and
board of adjustment shall comply with the provisions of this title and Utah
Code Annotated. At least fourteen (14) days' notice shall be provided for all
public hearings required by this title. (1998 Code § 17.04.080)
CHAPTER 4
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-4-1: Enforcement Procedures; Penalty
8-4-2: Civil Enforcement
8-4-3: Revocation Of Approvals, Permits And Licenses
8-4-1: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES; PENALTY:
   A.   Authority: This title may be enforced by the county or an adversely
affected party by any and all appropriate means authorized by state law and
county ordinances, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, mandamus,
abatement, fines, withholding of building permits and revocation of development
approvals, permits and licenses. The county need only establish the violation
to obtain an injunction.
   B.   County Staff Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the zoning
administrator to enforce these requirements and to bring to the attention of
the code enforcement officer in the county sheriff’s department, or the county
attorney or designee any violations of this title that have not been resolved
after notice to the property owner and established deadlines have not been met.
   C.   Permits And Certificates Not Issued In Violation: No building permit
shall be issued for the construction of any building or structure located on a
lot subdivided or sold in violation of the provisions of this title, nor shall
the county have any obligation to issue certificates of occupancy or to extend
roads or other facilities or services to any parcel created in violation of
this title. (1998 Code § 17.24.010)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this title shall be
subject to a class C misdemeanor and such fines and imprisonment that may be
applicable pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. (1998 Code § 17.24.010; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 20-378, 8-24-
2020)
8-4-2: CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by the county in law or in
equity to prevent any violation of this title, to prevent unlawful
construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a violation,
and to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises. (1998
Code § 17.24.020)
8-4-3: REVOCATION OF APPROVALS, PERMITS AND LICENSES 1 :
   A.   Authorized: An approved building permit may be revoked by the building
official in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section and the
building code if it is determined that the application, decision, permit or
license was based on materially inaccurate, misleading or incomplete
information. (1998 Code § 17.24.030; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Revocation Procedures: If the building official determines, based on
inspection, that there exists reasonable grounds for revocation of a building
permit authorized by this title, the building official may revoke the building
permit, subject to the appeal process outlined in this section. Any person
aggrieved by such decision may appeal by submitting, within fifteen (15) days
of the revocation, a written request for a public hearing to the county
commission. This procedure is in addition to and separate from the procedures
required in the building code in regard to the board of appeals.
   C.   Notice And Public Hearing: At least fourteen (14) days' notice of a
proceeding to reconsider or revoke the development permit, building permit or
license shall be given to the applicant.
   D.   Required Findings: The county commission may revoke the development
approval, building permit or license upon making one or more of the following
findings:
      1.   That the development application or building permit was issued on
the basis of erroneous or misleading information or misrepresentation provided
by the applicant.
      2.   That the terms or conditions of approval of the permit relating to
establishment or operation of the use, building or structure have been violated
or that other laws or regulations of the county applicable to the development
have been violated.
   E.   Decision And Notice: Within five (5) days of the conclusion of the
hearing, the county commission shall render a decision and shall notify the
holder of the permit or license of the decision and any other person who has
filed a written request for such notice.
   F.   Effect: A decision to revoke a permit or license shall become final
five (5) days after the date notice of the decision was given, or expiration of
the appeal period in subsection B of this section. After the effective date,
all activities pursuant to such permit shall be deemed in violation of this
title. (1998 Code § 17.24.040; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-1D-11 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
SECTION:
8-5-1: Zoning Districts Specified; Purpose
8-5-2: Native American Reservation Lands
8-5-1: ZONING DISTRICTS SPECIFIED; PURPOSE:
Consistent with the goals and policies of the county general plan, the zoning
districts are formulated to provide and achieve the following purposes: (Ord.
12-306, 11-19-2012)
   A.   Agriculture Districts (A):
      1.   A-10, ten (10) acre minimum zone, is provided and designed to
protect and encourage the continued use of land for agricultural purposes and
to discourage the preemption of agricultural land for other uses. Other
purposes of this district include the protection of the economic base of the
county for such uses as forestry, oil and gas drilling, pipelines, petroleum
storage and distribution and the protection of significant natural features of
land, creeks, lakes, wetlands, air and the preservation of open areas for
wildlife habitat and range livestock. This district is characterized by
production farms and ranches, including smaller hobby farms. The A-10 district
requires, for residential development, either a Tri-County health department
approved nonpublic water source or a connection from a public water source to
the family dwelling and a wastewater system permit. Representative uses within
this district include, but are not limited to: family dwellings, barns,
corrals, crops, livestock raising, farm dwellings, guest ranches, produce
retail sales and petroleum drilling and storage. In no case shall parcels in
the A-10 zone be reduced below ten (10) acres in size.
      2.   A-5, five (5) acre minimum zone. The purpose of the A-5 zone is the
same as that of the A-10 zoning district. Construction of buildings for human
occupancy in the A-5 district requires either a Tri-County health department
approved nonpublic water source or a connection from a public water source to
the building and a wastewater system permit. Proof of a public water connection
or public sewer connection is all that is required for property mapped in the
A-5 zone to be zoned R-1 and proof of both a public water connection and a
public sewer is all that is required for property mapped in the A-5 zone to be
zoned R-1/2. It is not necessary to rezone property to the higher density zone
when the official zoning map shows available public water service.
      3.   A-2.5, two and one-half (21/2) acre minimum zone, is to conserve and
protect farms and other open land uses, foster orderly growth in rural areas,
and prevent land development and agricultural land use conflicts. Principal
uses permitted in this zoning district include both farm and nonfarm
residential uses. Construction of buildings for human occupancy in the A-2.5
district requires either a Tri-County health department approved nonpublic
water source or a connection from a public water source to the building and a
wastewater system permit. Proof of a public water connection or a public sewer
connection is all that is required for property mapped in the A-2.5 zone to be
zoned R-1 and proof of both a public water connection and a public sewer is all
that is required for property mapped in the A-2.5 zone to be zoned R-1/2. It is
not necessary to rezone property to the higher density zone when the official
zoning map shows available public water service. Representative uses within
this district include, but are not limited to, family dwellings, barns,
corrals, crops, livestock raising, farm dwellings and produce retail sales.
   B.   Residential Districts: The residential districts of the county (R-1, 1
acre minimum and R-1/2, 1/2 acre minimum) are formulated to provide family
housing choices to meet the needs of county residents, to offer a balance of
housing types and densities, and to preserve and provide safe and convenient
places to live. The R-1 district requires a public water source and a Tri-
County health department wastewater system permit (or a public sewer
connection), while the R-1/2 district requires both a public water source and a
public sewer system to the family dwelling. Proof of a public water connection
or a public sewer connection is all that is required for property to be zoned
R-1 and proof of both a public water connection and a public sewer is all that
is required to be zoned R-1/2. It is not necessary to rezone property to the
higher density zone when the official zoning map shows available public water
service. Representative uses include, but are not limited to, family dwellings
with minor agriculture uses and public facilities necessary to meet the needs
of residents.
   C.   Commercial District: The commercial (C) district is intended to provide
controlled and compatible locations for retail, office and business/commerce
activities, to enhance employment opportunities, to encourage the efficient use
of land, to enhance property values and to strengthen the county tax base.
Typical uses allowed in this district include, but are not limited to, retail
sales and services, offices and institutional uses. There is no minimum area
requirement for the commercial district.
   D.   Industrial District: The industrial (I) district is formulated to
recognize existing industrial sites and activities within the county, to
provide opportunities and economic stability to provide employment
opportunities for county residents. Typical uses allowed in this district
include, but are not limited to, all uses that are not permitted in any other
zoning district. There is no minimum area requirement for the industrial
district.
   E.   Lot Size Rounding: Because of the way land was originally surveyed by
the general land office, a section of land in Duchesne County may not be a full
six hundred forty (640) acres, a quarter section may not be a full one hundred
sixty (160) acres, a "quarter-quarter" section may not be a full forty (40)
acres, and so on. According to the county surveyor and the "Manual Of Surveying
Instructions", section 3-34, the distance between regular corners is to be
normal according to the plan of survey, with certain allowable adjustments not
to exceed twenty five (25) links (16.5 feet) in forty (40) chains (2,640 feet)
or thirty three feet (33') in five thousand two hundred eighty feet (5,280').
Thus sections as small as five thousand two hundred forty seven feet by five
thousand two hundred forty seven feet (5,247' x 5,247') or as large as five
thousand three hundred thirteen feet by five thousand three hundred thirteen
feet (5,313' x 5,313') are considered regular sections. Thus, lot sizes within
98.75 percent of the minimum lot sizes specified by this title may be rounded
up to meet said standards.
   F.   Lot Size And Rights Of Way: For existing parcels of land and when new
parcels of land are created, those portions of said parcels containing
easements or rights of way may be counted toward the acreage needed to meet the
minimum lot size standards of this code.
   G.   Parcels In More Than One Zoning District: When a single parcel of land
is located within more than one zoning district, the provisions of each zoning
district shall apply only to those portions of the parcel within said district
boundaries.
   H.   Un-Manned Utility Or Telecommunications Facilities: The minimum lot
size standards of the zoning districts do not apply to parcels created for the
purpose of establishing an un-manned public or private transportation, utility
service or telecommunications facility. (Ord. 12-306, 11-19-2012; amd. Ord. 14-
331, 12-1-2014; Ord. 20-378, 8-24-2020)
8-5-2: NATIVE AMERICAN RESERVATION LANDS:
Uintah and Ouray reservation lands are lands held in trust for the Ute Indian
Tribe. "Trust lands" mean those lands of the reservation that are held in trust
by the United States for the benefit of the tribe, an individual or group of
individuals. The Ute Indian Tribe is a federally recognized Indian tribe and,
as such, is a public agency duly authorized to provide for the maintenance of
law and order. Pursuant to its status as a sovereign Indian nation, the Ute
Indian Tribe possesses the inherent authority to provide for zoning,
development permits, licenses and building permits over its lands held in
trust. (1998 Code § 17.12.020)
CHAPTER 6
USES AND SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Table Of Uses
8-6-2: Site Development Standards Table
8-6-1: TABLE OF USES:
   A.   Scope: The table of uses identifies the uses allowed within each zoning
district of the County. Nothing in this title shall be construed to prohibit
the location of more than one permitted principal or accessory structure or use
on a parcel of land, provided that all standards of the building permit process
are met.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the table of uses is to implement the goals and
policies of the County general plan. The table of uses identifies uses allowed
as a permitted use (identified as "P" in the table of uses) and uses allowed as
a conditional use (identified as "CU" in the table of uses). Uses not
identified as either a permitted or conditional use are deemed to be a
prohibited use (identified as "X" in the table of uses).
   C.   Zoning Districts Described:
      A-10 Agricultural 10 acres minimum
      A-5 Agricultural 5 acres minimum
      A-2.5 Agricultural 2.5 acres minimum
      R-1 Residential 1 acre minimum
      R-1/2 Residential 1/2 acre minimum
      C Commercial
      I Industrial
(Ord. 14-331, 12-1-2014)
TABLE OF USES
 A-10, A-5 A-2.5 R-1 R-1/2 C I
                                              A-10, A-5 A-2.5 R-1   R-1/2 C  I
Accessory dwelling                            P         P     P     CU    X  X
Agricultural experiment station/field station P         P     P     X     P  X
Agricultural retail sales/products processing P         P     CU    X     P  X
and storage
Airport                                       X         X     X     X     CU P
Airstrip                                      CU        X     X     X     CU P
Assisted care center                          CU        CU    CU    CU    P  X
Bakery                                        X         X     X     X     P  X
Bank                                          X         X     X     X     P  X
Bed and breakfast                             CU        CU    CU    CU    P  X
Boarding house                                CU        CU    CU    CU    P  X
Building material or garden store             CU        CU    CU    X     P  CU
Cabinet shop                                  X         CU    CU    X     P  P
Campground                                    CU        CU    CU    X     P  X
Cannabis production establishment             P         X     X     X     P  P
Car wash                                      X         CU    CU    X     P  P
Caretaker dwelling                            CU        CU    CU    X     P  P
Cemetery                                      P         X     X     X     P  P
Child daycare facility                        P         P     P     P     P  X
Commercial uses                               CU        CU    CU    CU    P  P
Composting facility                           P         CU    X     X     P  P
Contractor shop/office                        CU        CU    CU    CU    P  P
Convenience store                             X         CU    CU    CU    P  P
Distribution center                           CU        CU    CU    X     P  P
Dwelling, multiple-family                     CU        CU    CU    CU    CU X
Dwelling unit: one-, two-, three- or four-    P         P     P     P     P  X
family
Emergency care facilities                     CU        CU    CU    X     P  P
Exotic animals                                X         X     X     X     X  X
Farm                                          P         P     P     X     P  P
Fish farm                                     P         CU    X     X     P  X
Flare gas power generation facility           CU        CU    X     X     CU CU
Golf course                                   CU        CU    CU    X     P  X
Guest ranch                                   CU        CU    X     X     P  X
Home occupations                              P         P/CU1 P/CU1 P/CU1 P  P
Indoor recreation                             CU        CU    CU    CU    P  CU
Industrial uses                               CU        X     X     X     CU P
Junkyard                                      CU        X     X     X     CU P
Kennel                                        P         CU    X     X     P  P
Labor camp                                    CU        CU    X     X     CU CU
Large concentrated animal feeding operation
(allowed in Large Concentrated Animal Feeding CU        X     X     X     X  X
Operations Overlay Zone - see Section
8-9-18)
Landfill                                      X         X     X     X     X  P
Laundry, self-service                         X         CU    CU    CU    P  P
Livestock auction facility                    P         X     X     X     P  X
Major facility of a public utility/utility    P         P     P     CU    P  P
service facility
Manufactured or mobile home park              CU        CU    CU    CU    CU X
Meat or poultry processing facility           P         CU    X     X     P  P
Medical cannabis pharmacy                     P         X     X     X     P  P
Membership club                               P         CU    CU    CU    P  P
Motel/hotel                                   X         CU    CU    CU    P  X
Nursery                                       P         P     P     X     P  P
Nursing home                                  X         CU    CU    CU    P  X
Oil and gas drilling and production sites     CU        CU    CU    CU    CU CU
Planned unit development (PUD)                P         P     P     X     P  X
Power plant, including a solar power plant    CU        X     X     X     CU CU
Private club                                  X         X     X     X     P  X
Produced water disposal facility              CU        X     X     X     X  CU
Public/private educational facility, place of
religious assembly (church), veterinary       P         P     P     P     P  P
clinic and hospitals
Public uses                                   P         P     P     P     P  P
Reception center                              X         CU    CU    CU    P  X
Recreational vehicle park                     CU        CU    CU    CU    CU X
Recycling processing/collection facility      CU        CU    CU    CU    P  P
Residential facility for persons with a       P         P     P     P     P  X
disability
Resort lodge                                  CU        CU    CU    CU    P  X
Resource family home                          P         P     P     P     P  X
Restaurant                                    X         CU    CU    CU    P  P
Retail store                                  CU        CU    CU    CU    P  P
Retail tobacco specialty business             X         X     X     X     P  P
Sawmill                                       CU        X     X     X     P  P
Secure treatment facility                     X         X     X     X     CU X
Sexually oriented business, provided they are
a minimum of 1,000 feet from a place of
religious assembly, public park or public or  X         X     X     X     CU CU
private school accredited by the State,
public libraries, public buildings, and
daycare centers
Sign, off premises advertising                CU        X     X     X     P  P
Sign, on premises advertising                 P         P     P     P     P  P
Surface or subsurface mining of critical
infrastructure materials and other minerals   CU        X     X     X     CU CU
or resources
Telecommunications site/facility              P         P     P     P     P  P
Temporary use/stands for the retail sales of  P         P     CU    X     P  P
produce grown on the premises
Unlicensed motor vehicle, as not herein       P         CU    CU    CU    P  P
defined as a “junkyard”
Vehicle service center, sales, rental         CU        CU    CU    CU    P  P
Wind energy system, commercial                CU        X     X     X     CU CU
Wind energy system, met. towers               P3        P3    P3    P3    P3 P3
Wind energy system, small                     P4        P4    P4    P4    P4 P4
 
Notes:
   1.    See definition of "home occupation" in section
8-2-1 of this title for a list of home occupations permitted outright or
conditionally in these zones.
   2.    See standards in section
8-13-5-4 of this title.
   3.    See section
8-9-16-5 of this title.
   4.    See section
8-9-16-3 of this title.
(Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018; amd. Ord. 19-373, 9-7-2019; Ord. 22-392, 1-31-2022;
Ord. 24-407, 7-8-2024; Ord. 24-408, 5-6-2024; Ord. 24-409, 11-18-2024)
8-6-2: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLE:
The table of site development standards accompanies the table of uses. This
table identifies the lot requirements, required setback and yard standards,
building height standards, and other requirements for the uses allowed within
each zoning district.
   TABLE OF SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
BC = Building Code standard
 Zoning Districts
 A-10 A-5 A-2.5 R-1 R-1/2 C I
           Zoning Districts
           A-10     A-5       A-2.5     R-1       R-1/2     C         I
Minimum    200 feet 150 feet  150 feet  100 feet  75 feet   100 feet  100 feet
lot width
Minimum
front yard 30 feet  30 feet   30 feet   30 feet   30 feet   30 feet   30 feet
setback
Minimum
rear yard  30 feet  30 feet   30 feet   30 feet   30 feet   30 feet   30 feet
setback
                                        8 feet
                                        and the
                                        total
Minimum    Same as  Same as   Same as   distance  Same as
side yard  R-1      R-1       R-1       of the 2  R-1       BC        30 feet
setback                                 side
                                        setbacks
                                        is 20
                                        feet
Minimum
side yard
setback    30 feet  30 feet   30 feet   30 feet   20 feet   20 feet   30 feet
for corner
lot
           30 feet  30 feet   30 feet   30 feet   30 feet
           front,   front,    front,    front,    front,
Accessory  and side and side  and side  and side  and side
structure/ abutting abutting  abutting  abutting  abutting
dwelling   street;  street;   street;   street;   street;   BC        BC
setback    interior interior  interior  interior  interior
           side and side and  side and  side and  side and
           rear per rear per  rear per  rear per  rear per
           BC       BC        BC        BC        BC
Maximum/
minimum
building   40 feet  40 feet   40 feet   40 feet   40 feet   50 feet/  50 feet/
height                                                      8 feet    8 feet
(see note
below)
Tri-County Yes,     Yes, plus Yes, plus           Yes, plus Yes, plus Yes, plus
Health     plus     approved  approved  Yes, plus culinary  approved  approved
Department approved water     water     culinary  water and water     water
approval   water    source    source    water     public    source    source
           source                                 sewer
Building
permit     Yes      Yes       Yes       Yes       Yes       Yes       Yes
required
 
Note: Any maximum building height exceeding 40 feet shall require a conditional
use permit approval. The height limitations contained in the zoning regulations
do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy.
(1998 Code § 17.12.040)
CHAPTER 7
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
8-7-1: Statutory Authorization
8-7-2: Findings Of Fact
8-7-3: Statement Of Purpose
8-7-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
8-7-5: Definitions
8-7-6: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
8-7-7: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
8-7-8: Establishment Of Development Permit
8-7-9: Compliance
8-7-10: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8-7-11: Interpretation
8-7-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
8-7-13: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
8-7-14: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
8-7-15: Development Permit Procedures
8-7-16: Variance Procedures
8-7-17: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
8-7-18: Penalties For Noncompliance
8-7-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the State of Utah has, in Utah Code Unannotated 17-27a-501,
delegated the responsibility to local counties to adopt land use and zoning
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of Duchesne County are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
      3.   It is hereby found and declared by the Duchesne County Commission
that severe flooding has occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will
certainly occur within the future; that flooding is likely to result in
infliction of serious personal injury or death, and is likely to result in
substantial injury or destruction of property within its jurisdiction; in order
to effectively comply with minimum standards for coverage under the National
Flood Insurance Program; and in order to effectively remedy the situation
described herein, it is necessary that this chapter become law. (Ord. 16-354,
11-14-2016)
8-7-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
   A.   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform, which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows: active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO Zone on a community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet
(3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-
chance flood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to
be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the
floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the elevation shown on
the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A,
AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1-percent chance of equaling or exceeding
that level in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BEST AVAILABLE DATA: Existing flood hazard information adopted by a community
and reflected on an effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report; or draft
or preliminary flood hazard information supplied by FEMA or from another
source. Other sources may include, but are not limited to, state, other federal
agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which would be reasonably
used by the community.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A non-basement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and b) adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by
means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters. In the case of Zones V1-30,
VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section
60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A,
M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters; or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
FLOOD PROOFING: Any combination of structural and non- structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such State or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of flooding).
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A. Any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      3.   Individually listed on a State inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      4.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
a. By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior
or;
b. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b) four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; c) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and d) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code
specifications, which have been identified by the local Code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary conditions or b) any alteration of
a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016; amd. Ord. 24-405, 4-15-2024)
8-7-6: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard and areas of
identified and documented flood risk, supported using Best Available Data,
within the jurisdiction of Duchesne County, Utah. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016;
amd. Ord. 24-405, 4-15-2024)
8-7-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
Since areas of special flood hazard have not been identified, water surface
elevations have not been provided, nor has sufficient data identifying the
floodway or coastal high hazard area been provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), the community shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize data available from other Federal, State or other sources. The
community has elected to adopt Best Available Data, as defined herein, to
regulate floodplain development in addition to utilizing the effective FIRMs,
FIS, and/or FBFM. Where Best Available Data contradicts the FIRMs, FIS, and/or
the FBFM, the more restrictive data shall be utilized. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-
2016; amd. Ord. 24-405, 4-15-2024)
8-7-8: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-9: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-10: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
The terms of this chapter are not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where the terms
of this chapter and another chapter, easement, covenant, or deed restriction
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-11: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
a) considered as minimum requirements; b) liberally construed in favor of the
Governing Body; and c) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under State Statutes. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 16-354,
11-14-2016)
8-7-13: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Duchesne County Community Development Administrator is hereby appointed the
Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (National Flood Insurance
Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-
2016)
8-7-14: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review development permit applications to determine whether proposed
construction or other development, including the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      4.   Review development permits to assure that all necessary permits have
been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental agencies
(including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation; subject
to appeal, first to the Planning Commission and second to the County
Commissioners. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-15: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented on forms
prepared by the Floodplain Administrator and may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures,
including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the
foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the
following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood proofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood proofed structure shall meet the flood proofing
criteria;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 8-7-14A1 of this chapter.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, which is Division of Emergency Management, Floodplain
Program Manager, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
that area. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016; amd. Ord. 24-405, 4-15-2024)
8-7-16: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   Judgment: The Duchesne County Planning Commission (or County
Commissioners on appeal) shall hear and render judgment on requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Appeal With Error: The Planning Commission shall hear and render
judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in
the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      3.   Aggrieved By Appeal Decision: Any person or persons aggrieved by the
decision of the Planning Commission may appeal such decision to the County
Commissioners. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision may appeal such
decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   Maintaining A Record: The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a
record of all actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
      5.   Historic Places: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the
procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      6.   New Constriction And Substantial Improvements: Variances may be
issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot
of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots
with existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the
relevant factors in section
8-7-15 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      7.   Intent: Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent
of this chapter, the Planning Commission may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives set forth in section
8-7-3 of this chapter.
      8.   Designated Floodway: Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      9.   Repair Or Rehabilitation: Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      10.   Prerequisites For Granting Variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon: 1) showing a good and
sufficient cause; 2) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and 3) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or chapters.
         c.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      11.   Variances Issued: Variances may be issued by a community for new
construction and substantial improvements and for other development necessary
for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that: a) the criteria
outlined in subsections A1 through A9 of this section are met, and b) the
structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood
damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016)
8-7-17: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are
required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   When Base Flood Elevation data has not been provided by FEMA, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any Base
Flood Elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state, or
other source including data provided by the applicant, in order to administer
the provisions of this chapter and as a basis for elevating residential
structures to or above the base flood elevation (plus one foot of freeboard)
and for floodproofing non-residential structures to or above the Base Flood
Elevation (plus one foot of freeboard).
   B.   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are
required for all new subdivisions:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
8-7-2,
8-7-3 and
8-7-4 of this chapter.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of sections
8-7-8 and
8-7-15 of this chapter and the provisions of this section.
      3.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
      5.   Base Flood Elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which are greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-2016; amd. Ord. 24-
405, 4-15-2024)
8-7-18: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall be
dealt with in accordance with chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 16-354, 11-14-
2016)
CHAPTER 8
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
SECTION:
8-8-1: Scope
8-8-2: Purpose
8-8-3: Required Conditions
8-8-4: Supplementary Regulations
8-8-5: Public Hearing
8-8-6: Planning Commission Authority
8-8-7: Construction Limitations
8-8-8: Fees
8-8-1: SCOPE:
Provision of a planned unit development by this chapter in no way guarantees a
property owner the right to exercise the provisions of the planned unit
development. Planned unit developments shall be approved by the planning
commission only if in their judgment the proposed development fully meets the
intent and purpose and requirements of this title. (1998 Code § 17.56.010)
8-8-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of the planned unit development is to allow diversification
in the relationship of various uses and structures to their sites and to permit
more flexibility in the design of a development. A planned unit development is
a rezoning and the planned unit development constitutes an overlay zone. The
application of planned unit concepts is intended to encourage good
neighborhood, housing or area design, public health, safety and general
welfare, and at the same time, securing the advantages of large scale site
planning for residential or commercial developments, or combinations thereof.
   B.   Planned unit development may be:
      1.   The development of compatible land uses arranged in such a way as to
provide desirable living environments that may include private and common open
spaces for recreation, circulation and/or aesthetic uses;
      2.   The conservation or development of desirable amenities not otherwise
possible by typical development standards;
      3.   Creation of areas for multiple use that are of benefit to the
neighborhood or environment of the area. (1998 Code § 17.56.020)
8-8-3: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Minimum Area: No planned unit development shall have an area of less
than ten (10) acres.
   B.   Location To Public Services And Facilities: All planned unit
developments shall be located where adequate public services and facilities are
available to meet the needs of residents.
   C.   Public Hearing Required: Since planned unit developments are considered
their own zoning district, all applications require a public hearing.
   D.   Ownership: The development shall be in single, partnership or corporate
ownership, or under option to purchase by an individual or a corporate entity
at the time of application, or the application shall be filed jointly by all
owners of the property.
   E.   Structures, Open Spaces: The planning commission shall require such
arrangements of structures and common or public open spaces with the site
development plan as necessary to assure that adjacent properties will not be
adversely affected.
   F.   Height, Intensity Of Uses: Height and intensity of buildings and uses
shall be arranged around the boundaries of the planned unit development or
zones. However, unless conditions of the site so warrant, buildings located on
the periphery of the development shall be limited to a maximum height of two
(2) stories.
   G.   Area, Width, Coverage: Lot area, lot width, yard and coverage
regulations shall be determined by approval of the site plan.
   H.   Density: Density of dwelling units per acre may be doubled as allowed
in the district in which the planned unit development is located.
   I.   Cluster Development: The minimum area requirement may be reduced to a
specific minimum lot size for cluster development.
   J.   Minimum Open Space: The common or public open space minimum required
for a planned unit development shall be twenty five percent (25%) of the total
acreage.
   K.   Preservation, Maintenance And Ownership Of Open Space: Preservation,
maintenance and ownership of required common or public open space within the
development shall be accomplished by:
      1.   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system; or
      2.   Complying with the provisions of the condominium ownership act, Utah
Code Annotated section 57-8-1 et seq., as amended, which provides for the
payment of common expenses for the upkeep of the common areas and facilities.
   L.   Landscaping, Fencing, Screening: Landscaping, fencing and screening
related to the uses within the site and as a means of integrating the proposed
development into its surroundings shall be planned and presented to the
planning commission, together with other required plans for the development.
(1998 Code § 17.56.030)
8-8-4: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
The applicant shall submit a planned unit development plan for the total area
within the proposed development. If the planned unit development is to be
developed on a phase basis, each phase shall be of such size, composition and
arrangement that its construction, marketing and operation is feasible as a
unit independent of any subsequent phases. Final approval shall be given only
to one phase at a time. The county subdivision ordinance, as it now or
hereafter exists, applies to all preliminary and final planned unit development
plats. The general site plan shall show, where pertinent:
   A.   The use or uses, dimensions, sketch elevations, and locations of
proposed structures;
   B.   Dimensions and locations of areas to be reserved and developed for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, parking, public uses such as schools and
playgrounds, landscaping and other open spaces;
   C.   Total number of acres in proposed development;
   D.   Such other pertinent information, including, but not limited to,
residential density, coverage and open space characteristics shall be included
as may be necessary to make a determination that the contemplated arrangement
of buildings and uses makes it desirable to apply regulations and requirements
differing from those ordinarily applicable under this title. (1998 Code §
17.56.040)
8-8-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
All applications for a planned unit development shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this title and shall be the subject of a public hearing
held before the planning commission for approval, for which a minimum of
fourteen (14) days' public notice has been provided, and the planning staff
notifying all property owners by U.S. mail within three hundred feet (300') of
the proposed planned unit development. The applicant shall provide all required
information to the planning office twenty one (21) days prior to the planning
commission meeting. (1998 Code § 17.56.050)
8-8-6: PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
The planning commission is authorized to render a final decision of approval or
disapproval for an application for a planned unit development. In addition, the
planning commission may attach such conditions as it may deem necessary to
ensure compliance with the purposes set forth in section
8-8-2 of this chapter. If approved, the proposed planned unit development has
met the subdivision preliminary approval and then may proceed to development in
accordance with the county subdivision ordinance, using the same criteria as
final plat approval. (1998 Code § 17.56.060)
8-8-7: CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Conformance To Plan Required: Upon approval of a planned unit
development, construction shall proceed only in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the planning commission and the county
commissioners, and in conformity with any conditions attached by the
commissioners to its approval. Amendments to approved plans and specifications
for a planned unit development shall be approved by the county commission and
shown on the approved plans.
   B.   Building Permit: The building official or any other county department
shall not issue any permit for any proposed building, structure, activity or
use within the project unless such building, structure, activity or use is in
accordance with the approved development plan and any conditions imposed in
conjunction with its approval.
   C.   Certificate Of Occupancy: The building official shall issue a
certificate of occupancy for any building or structure upon its completion in
accordance with the approved development plan. (1998 Code § 17.56.070)
8-8-8: FEES:
Fees for planned unit developments shall be the same as a zone ordinance/map
amendment, plus each lot shall be assessed the same as a subdivision
application for both preliminary and final plat stages. (1998 Code § 17.56.080)
CHAPTER 9
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose Of Regulations
8-9-2: General Requirements
8-9-3: Sale Of Nonconforming Lots
8-9-4: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space Prohibited
8-9-5: Legal Access Required
8-9-6: Front Yards
8-9-7: Side And Rear Yards
8-9-8: Water And Sewage Requirements
8-9-9: Keeping Of Livestock
8-9-10: Site Plans
8-9-11: Residential Facilities For Persons With Disability
8-9-12: Labor Camps
8-9-13: Retail Tobacco Specialty Business
8-9-14: Signs, On Premises And Off Premises Advertising
8-9-15: Solar Power Plants
8-9-15-1: Purpose
8-9-15-2: Definitions
8-9-15-3: Regulations And Design Standards
8-9-16: Wind Energy Systems
8-9-16-1: Purpose
8-9-16-2: Definitions
8-9-16-3: Requirements - Wind Energy System, Small
8-9-16-4: Requirements - Wind Energy System, Commercial
8-9-16-5: Requirements For Wind Monitoring Towers And Equipment ("Met Towers")
8-9-16-6: Removal Upon Non-Use
8-9-16-7: Applicability
8-9-17: Cannabis Production Establishments And Medical Cannabis Pharmacies
8-9-18: Large Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations Overlay Zone
8-9-19: Flare Gas Power Generation
8-9-20: Duchesne Municipal Airport Overlay District
8-9-21: Roosevelt Municipal Airport Overlay District
8-9-1: PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS:
The purpose of supplementary regulations is to protect the general health,
safety and welfare of the citizens and property owners of the County.
Compliance with all provisions of this title shall be required for the issuance
of any required development approval, license or permit. (1998 Code §
17.44.010)
8-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: All uses, buildings and structures to comply with
zoning district requirements. Every building or structure hereafter erected,
reconstructed, structurally altered, enlarged or moved, and every building,
structure, premises or land used, rearranged, designed or intended for any use,
shall be built or used only as is permitted in the district in which such
building, structure, land or use is located.
   B.   Subdivision And Sale Of Property: No person shall subdivide any parcel
of land located wholly or in part within the County for development purposes
unless a plat thereof is first created in compliance with the requirements of
the County subdivision ordinance and the State, which plat shall be recorded in
the Office of the County Recorder. (1998 Code § 17.44.020)
8-9-3: SALE OF NONCONFORMING LOTS:
No nonconforming lot shall be sold, financed or refinanced within the time
frame of the statute of limitations. Subsequent to the statute of limitations
having expired, an owner of a nonconforming lot shall appeal to the Board of
Adjustment for consideration prior to selling, financing or refinancing. (1998
Code § 17.44.030)
8-9-4: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE PROHIBITED:
No area needed to meet the zoning minimum area requirement, parcel width, yard,
area, setback, coverage, parking or other requirements of this title for a
parcel or building may be sold or leased separate from such parcel or building.
(1998 Code § 17.44.040)
8-9-5: LEGAL ACCESS REQUIRED:
Every lot shall have frontage upon a dedicated right-of-way or upon a road or
street that is open for public travel, or shall be provided with access via a
right-of-way connecting the lot to a dedicated right-of-way or to a road or
street that is open for public travel. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-6: FRONT YARDS:
The front yard shall be measured from the road right-of-way line to the front
face of the building, covered porch, covered terrace, deck, porch or attached
accessory building. (1998 Code § 17.44.060)
8-9-7: SIDE AND REAR YARDS:
Every part of the required side or rear yard shall be open and unobstructed
except for accessory buildings as permitted by this title, and the ordinary
projection of windowsills, cornices and other ornamental features projecting
not more than twelve inches (12"). (1998 Code § 17.44.070)
8-9-8: WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS:
As required by this section, all applications for development approval or
building permits shall be accompanied by the appropriate permits or letters of
approval from the County building official, the Tri-County Health Department,
the Culinary Water District, the Utah Division of Water Rights or the Utah
Division of Drinking Water, prior to approval by the Zoning Administrator.
   A.   Water Requirements:
      1.   In all cases where a proposed building will require culinary water
(drinking water) and the proposed building will not be connected to a public
water source, approval for the new culinary water source must be obtained from
the Utah Division of Water Rights (if a private well is proposed) and the Tri-
County Health Department, which is the County's culinary water authority.
      2.   If culinary water is not provided from a public water system, a
proposed building may be served in accordance with the Rules for Non-Public
Water Systems adopted by the Tri- County Health Department Board.
   B.   Sewage Requirements:
      1.   Connection to a State approved sewer system is required if sewer
lines are accessible (as determined by the Tri-County Health Department) and
within three hundred feet (300') of any part of the property proposed for
development. For properties proposed for residential development, an additional
one hundred fifty feet (150') per lot or residential unit will be added for
each lot or dwelling unit proposed in all phases of the project.
      2.   In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will generate
wastewater, and the proposed building or proposed use will not be connected to
an existing sewer, approval for wastewater disposal shall be obtained from the
Tri-County Health Department, which is the County's sanitary sewer authority.
(Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-9: KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK:
For properties located in the unincorporated portion of the County, the keeping
of livestock is permitted, providing the parcel consists of at least one acre
(43,560 square feet). Adequate fences shall be required to keep animals off
adjacent lands. Barns, sheds and other structures sheltering animals shall be
located a minimum of three feet (3') from a side or rear property line and
thirty feet (30') from a front property line or a side property line abutting a
street. (1998 Code § 17.44.090; amd. Ord. 19-373, 9-7-2019)
8-9-10: SITE PLANS:
A site plan submitted to the County for approval of a building permit:
   A.   If modified, may not be used to impose a penalty on a property owner;
   B.   Does not represent an agreement for a specific layout;
   C.   Does not bind an owner from future development activity or
modifications to a development activity on the property; and
   D.   Is superseded by the terms of a building permit requirement. (Ord. 13-
314, 7-8-2013)
8-9-11: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITY:
   A.   Requirements: Residential facilities for persons with a disability
shall be an outright permitted use throughout the County in all zones in which
the residential uses are allowed; however, they are required to obtain permits
that verify compliance with the same building, safety, and health regulations
as are applicable in the same zone to similar uses that are not residential
facilities for persons with a disability.
   B.   Licensing; Monitoring: The responsibility to license programs or
entities that operate facilities for persons with a disability, as well as to
require and monitor the provision of adequate services to persons residing in
those facilities, shall rest with:
      1.   For programs or entities licensed or certified by the Department of
Human Services, the Department of Human Services as provided in Utah Code
Annotated title 62A, chapter 5, services to people with disabilities; and
      2.   For programs or entities licensed or certified by the Department of
Health, the Department of Health under Utah Code Annotated title 26, chapter
21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act. (Ord. 13-314, 7-8-2013)
8-9-12: LABOR CAMPS:
   A.   Requirements: Labor camps, in addition to complying with the sanitation
requirements of Utah Administrative Rule, shall be permitted in accordance with
the following standards:
      1.   Labor camps are a permitted conditional use in the A-10, A-5, A-2.5,
C, and I Zone zoning districts. Labor camps are prohibited in the R-1 and R-1/
2 zoning districts.
      2.   Applicants for a labor camp shall provide the Zoning Administrator
with a site development plan containing the following:
         a.   Dimensions, orientation and vicinity of the parcel.
         b.   Location, size, number and types of proposed housing units. At
least one hundred (100) square feet of floor area shall be provided for each
occupant.
         c.   Legal access to the camp.
         d.   Location, size, number and types of proposed dining, office,
recreation or other nonresidential facilities.
         e.   Location of water, sewage and solid waste disposal facilities.
         f.   Stormwater control facilities.
         g.   Fire protection, power and medical facilities.
      3.   Culinary water, wastewater disposal and solid waste disposal
facilities shall be approved in writing by the culinary water authority and the
sanitary sewer authority prior to receipt of County approval.
      4.   Labor camp applicants shall provide the County with financial surety
that the camp will be dismantled and the area reclaimed to natural condition.
The amount of surety shall be at least one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
of a contractor's estimate to restore the site to a condition approved by the
property owner.
      5.   Labor camp applicants shall obtain building permits for structures
and obtain a certificate of occupancy from the County building official prior
to occupancy.
      6.   In the event the applicant fails to provide the services and
facilities required above, the labor camp may be closed and ordered to vacate.
These remedies are in addition to the remedies provided in this title for
failure to comply with this section. (Ord. 10-286, 1-31-2011; amd. Ord. 24-408,
5-6-2024)
8-9-13: RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS:
Duchesne County, pursuant to Utah law, may not grant land use approval for a
retail tobacco specialty business if said business is located within:
   A.   One thousand feet (1,000') of a community location as defined herein;
   B.   Six hundred feet (600') of another retail tobacco specialty business;
or
   C.   Six hundred feet (600') from property used or zoned for:
      1.   Agricultural use; or
      2.   Residential use. (Ord. 14-331, 12-1-2014)
8-9-14: SIGNS, ON PREMISES AND OFF PREMISES ADVERTISING:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   No advertising sign or structure shall be erected which by reason of
its size, location, shape, content, coloring, or manner of illumination might
be confused as a traffic control or warning device.
      2.   No advertising sign shall be erected within a public right- of-way.
      3.   All advertising signs shall comply with the provisions of the
National Electrical Code and International Building Code in effect at the time
the sign is proposed to be erected. Signs involving electrical wiring or
connections shall be erected only by a licensed and bonded contractor. Where
required by the building official, signs shall be designed by a structural
engineer, licensed by the State of Utah, to ensure the proposed sign structure
will comply with all Construction Code requirements.
      4.   No advertising sign shall exceed a height of fifty feet (50'),
measured from the abutting roadway grade.
      5.   No advertising sign shall be attached to a motor vehicle or trailer
that is not actively in use for transportation purposes or not currently
licensed and insured for use on public roads. Any such signage in place as of
the date of this section shall be removed within a three (3) year amortization
period beginning on the date this section was approved.
      6.   No advertising sign shall be placed on a motor vehicle or trailer
that could impede the driver's ability to safely operate that vehicle.
Advertising signs placed on a motor vehicle or trailer shall be securely
affixed in a manner to prevent such signage from becoming dislodged by wind
forces.
      7.   Off premises advertising sign requests shall contain the written
permission of the property owner.
      8.   All advertising signs shall be maintained in good repair and shall
be repaired by the sign owner within ninety (90) days of receipt of a notice to
repair from the County. The building official may order or cause the immediate
removal of a sign deemed to constitute a public safety hazard.
      9.   Advertising signs shall be removed after a business is closed or the
product or service advertised is no longer available. Removal of said signs
shall be accomplished by the sign owner within ninety (90) days of receipt of a
notice to remove from the County. (Ord. 14-331, 12-1-2014)
8-9-15: SOLAR POWER PLANTS:
8-9-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
8-9-15 is to establish minimum requirements and regulations for the placement,
construction and modification of solar power plants, as defined herein, while
promoting the safe, effective and efficient use of such energy systems. (Ord.
18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS: Include any photovoltaic, concentrated solar
thermal, or solar hot water devices that are accessory to, and incorporated
into the development of an authorized use of the property, and which are
designed for the purpose of reducing or meeting on-site energy needs. Accessory
solar energy systems are permitted outright in all zones and are not subject to
these regulations.
CONCENTRATING SOLAR THERMAL DEVICES (Also Known As CONCENTRATED SOLAR THERMAL
POWER (CST): Are systems that use lenses or mirrors, and often tracking
systems, to focus or reflect a large area of sunlight into a small area. The
concentrated energy is absorbed by a transfer fluid or gas and used as a heat
source for either a conventional power plant, such as a steam power plant, or a
power conversion unit, such as a sterling engine. Although several
concentrating solar thermal technologies exist, the most developed types are
the solar trough, parabolic dish and solar power tower.
PHOTOVOLTAICS (PV): Is a technology that converts light directly into
electricity. PV solar panels have been around for several years, although
concentrated photovoltaic (CPV) technologies are now being developed. Both PV
systems and CPV systems are included within this definition.
SOLAR POWER PLANT: Means a utility-scale commercial facility that converts
sunlight into electricity, whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar
thermal devices (CST), or various experimental solar technologies, for the
primary purpose of wholesale or retail sales of generated electricity. (Ord.
18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-15-3: REGULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
All solar power plants shall comply with the following minimum regulations and
design standards.
   A.   Permitted Locations: A solar power plant that complies with the
provisions of this section may be permitted as described in section
8-6-1, "Table Of Uses", of this title.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: No concentrated solar thermal power plant shall be
erected on any lot less than forty (40) acres in size. No photovoltaic solar
power plant shall be erected on any lot less than five (5) acres in size.
      2.   Maximum Height: The maximum height for all structures shall be
established through the conditional use permit process, provided a structure
height of thirty feet (30') or less shall always be permitted.
      3.   Setbacks: Solar power plant structures shall be set back from all
property lines and public road rights-of-way at least thirty feet (30'), or one
and one-half (11/2) times the height of the structure, whichever is greater. In
addition, solar power plant structures must be located at least one hundred
feet (100') or one and one-half (11/2) times the height of the structure from
all existing residences, whichever is greater. Additional setbacks may be
required to mitigate noise and glare impacts, or to provide for designated road
or utility corridors, as identified through the review process.
      4.   Safety And Access: An appropriate security/livestock fence (height
and material to be established through the conditional use permit process)
shall be placed around the perimeter of the solar power plant. Knox boxes and
keys shall be provided at locked entrances for emergency personnel access.
Appropriate warning signage, including emergency contact information, shall be
placed at the entrance and along the perimeter of the solar power plant
project.
      5.   Noise: No operating solar power plant shall produce noise that
exceeds any of the following limitations. Adequate setbacks shall be provided
to ensure compliance with these limitations.
         a.   Fifty (50) dBA, as measured at the property line of any
neighboring residence;
         b.   Forty five (45) dBA, as measured at any existing neighboring
residence between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M.
         c.   Sixty (60) dBA, as measured at the property lines of the project
boundary, unless the owner of the affected property and the Planning Commission
agree to a higher noise level, as follows.
         d.   The owner of a neighboring property that would otherwise be
protected by the noise limitations above may voluntarily agree, in writing, to
a higher noise level. Any such agreement must specifically state the noise
standard being modified, the extent of the modification, and be in the form of
a legally binding contract or easement between the landowner (including
assignees in interest) and the solar power plant developer, effective for the
life of the project. Notwithstanding any such voluntary agreement between the
affected landowner and the solar power plant developer, the agreement shall
only be effective and reflected in the County's authorization of the project
when it has been reviewed and determined acceptable to the County. The County
shall consider the likely impacts and consequences of the modified noise limit
requested, based on the specific circumstances of the situation, in determining
whether to accept the agreement. Any such noise agreement must be submitted
with the conditional use permit application and if authorized by the County,
must be filed with the County Recorder upon issuance of the conditional use
permit.
      6.   Visual Appearance:
         a.   Solar power plant buildings and accessory structures shall, to
the extent reasonably possible, use materials, colors, and textures that will
blend the facility into the existing environment.
         b.   Appropriate landscaping and/or screening materials may be
required to help screen the solar power plant and accessory structures from
major roads and neighboring residences.
         c.   No solar power plant tower or other tall structure associated
with a solar power plant shall be lighted unless required by the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA). When lighting is required by FAA, it shall be
the red, intermittent, glowing-style, rather than the white, strobe- style,
unless disclosed and justified through the application review process. Aircraft
sensor systems to turn the lights on only when low-flying aircraft are in the
area may be required.
         d.   Lighting of the solar power plant and accessory structures shall
be limited to the minimum necessary and full cut-off lighting (e.g., dark sky
compliant) may be required when determined necessary to mitigate visual
impacts.
         e.   No solar power plant shall produce glare that would constitute a
nuisance to occupants of neighboring properties or persons traveling
neighboring roads.
      7.   Electrical Interconnections: All electrical interconnection and
distribution lines within the project boundary shall be underground, unless
determined otherwise by the Planning Commission because of severe environmental
constraints (e.g., wetlands, cliffs, hard bedrock). An exception to this
standard may be granted by the Planning Commission for power lines that leave
the project or are within the substation. All electrical interconnections and
distribution components must comply with all applicable codes and public
utility requirements.
      8.   Fire Protection: All solar power plants shall have a defensible
space for fire protection in accordance with the Duchesne County Wildland-Urban
Interface Code.
   C.   Local, State And Federal Permits: A solar power plant shall be required
to obtain all necessary permits from the Utah Department of Environmental
Quality (including the Utah Division of Air Quality and the Utah Division of
Water Quality), the Utah Department of Energy and applicable County and Federal
permits.
   D.   Agreements/Easements: If the land on which the project is proposed is
to be leased, rather than owned by the solar energy development company, all
property within the project boundary must be included in a recorded easement
(s), lease(s), or consent agreement(s) specifying the applicable uses for the
duration of the project. All necessary leases, easements, or other agreements
between the solar development company and the affected parties must be in place
prior to commencing construction, unless specified otherwise in the conditional
use permit.
   E.   Permit Applications:
      1.   An application for a conditional use permit to establish a solar
power plant shall include a complete description of the project and
documentation to sufficiently demonstrate that the requirements set forth in
this section
8-9-15 will be met. The Land Use Authority may require any information or
supporting documentation reasonably necessary to determine compliance with this
section.
      2.   It is preferred that any related plans for substations or
transmission lines be considered in conjunction with the conditional use permit
application for the solar power plant; however, if the details of those
improvements are not available at the time of application for the solar power
plant, they shall be considered later and the conditional use permit hearing
re-opened. At a minimum, the intended route for connecting to the power grid
and the alternative locations of any substation shall be disclosed with the
application for the solar power plant.
      3.   Due to the complexity of large-scale solar power plant projects, the
County may require a development agreement or other appropriate instrument to
address taxing, land use, property assessment, and other issues related to the
project. For example, the County is interested in preventing large tax shifts
that may otherwise be incurred by County residents each year a centrally-
assessed solar power plant is depreciated; therefore, cooperation to establish
an agreement for payment in lieu of taxes (PILT), or other acceptable solution,
may be necessary. A development agreement may be required as a condition of the
permit, and must be approved by the County Commissioners prior to commencing
construction.
   F.   Provisions For Conditional Use Permit Review: Following the provisions
of chapter 13 of this title, additional or more thorough consideration shall be
given to the following as the County determines whether the project should be
approved, denied, or conditionally approved:
      1.   Project Rationale: Project rationale, including estimated
construction schedule, project life, phasing, and likely buyers or markets for
the generated energy.
      2.   Siting Considerations: Siting considerations, such as avoiding
areas/locations with a high potential for biological conflict such as
wilderness study areas, areas of environmental concern, County and State parks,
historic trails, special management areas or important wildlife habitat or
corridors; avoiding visual corridors that are prominent scenic viewsheds, or
scenic areas designated by the County; avoiding areas of erodible slopes and
soils, where concerns for water quality, landslide, severe erosion, or high
storm runoff potential have been identified; and, avoiding known sensitive
historical, cultural or archeological resources.
      3.   Site Development Plans: The applicant shall submit a site
development plan, which identifies all existing and proposed structures;
setbacks; access routes; proposed road improvements; any existing inhabitable
structures and residentially zoned lots within one-quarter (1/4) mile of a
photovoltaic solar project or one-half (1/2) mile of a concentrated solar
project; existing utilities, pipelines, and transmission lines; proposed
utility lines; utility and maintenance structures; existing topographic
contours; existing and proposed drainage ways; proposed grading; areas of
natural vegetation removal; revegetation areas and methods; dust and erosion
control; any floodplains or wetlands; and other relevant items identified by
the County staff or Planning Commission. All plans shall be drawn at an
appropriate scale.
      4.   Analysis Of Local Economic Benefits: Analysis of local economic
benefits, describing estimated: project cost, generated taxes, percent of
construction dollars to be spent locally, and the number of local construction
and permanent jobs.
      5.   Visual Impacts, Appearance, And Scenic Viewsheds: Potential visual
impacts may be caused by components of the project such as mirrors, solar
towers, cooling towers, steam plumes, above ground electrical lines, accessory
structures, access roads, utility trenches and installations, and alteration of
vegetation. Those projects that are within a sensitive viewshed, utilize
reflective components (e.g., exposed mirrors), or that propose structures
taller than thirty feet (30') must provide a viewshed analysis of the project,
including visual simulations of the planned structures and analysis of
potential glare impacts. The number of visual simulations shall be sufficient
to provide adequate analysis of the visual impacts of the proposal, which shall
be from no less than four (4) vantage points that together provide a view from
all sides of the project. More visually sensitive proposals (e.g., solar power
towers or exposed mirrors in sensitive viewsheds) may require analysis from
significantly more vantage points, such as different distances and sensitive
locations. The Planning Commission may also require a Zone of Theoretical
Visibility/Zone of Visual Impact (ZVI) Analysis, which is a three hundred sixty
degree (360°) computer analysis to map the lands within a defined radius of a
location that would likely be able to see an object. Significant visual impacts
that cannot be adequately mitigated are grounds for denial.
      6.   Wildlife Habitat Areas And Migration Patterns: Specifically include
information on any use of the site by endangered or threatened species and
whether the project is in a biologically significant area. If threatened or
endangered species exist in the area, consultation with the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service (USFWS) will be necessary.
      7.   Environmental Analysis: In the absence of a required State or
Federal agency environmental review for the project (e.g., NEPA), the Planning
Commission may require an analysis of impacts to historic, cultural and
archaeological resources, soil erosion (water and wind), flora, and water
quality and water supply in the area, when there is reason to believe that
adverse impacts to such resources may occur.
      8.   Solid Waste Or Hazardous Waste: As applicable, the application must
include plans for the spill prevention, clean-up, and disposal of fuels, oils,
and hazardous wastes, as well as collection methods for solid waste generated
by the project.
      9.   Height Restrictions And FAA Hazard Review: Compliance with any
applicable airport overlay zoning requirements and the ability to comply with
FAA regulations pertaining to hazards to air navigation must be demonstrated.
      10.   Transportation Plan For Construction And Operation Phases: Indicate
by description and map what roads the project will utilize during the
construction and operation/maintenance phases of the project, along with their
existing surfacing and condition. Specify any new roads and proposed upgrades
or improvements needed to the existing road system to serve the project (both
the construction and O&M periods). Identify needed bridges, culverts, livestock
fence crossings (gates and cattle guards). Also identify all areas where
modification of the topography is anticipated (cutting/filling) to construct or
improve the roadways. Address road improvement, restoration or maintenance
needs associated with the construction, ongoing maintenance/repair and
potential dismantling of the project. Provide projected traffic counts for the
construction period, broken down by the general type/size of vehicles, and
identify approximately how many trips will have oversized or overweight loads.
If significant impacts to the transportation system are anticipated, the County
may require financial guarantees to ensure proper repair/restoration of
roadways or other infrastructure damaged or degraded during construction or
dismantling of the project. In such case, the "before" conditions of the
roadways and other infrastructure must be documented through appropriate
methods such as videos, photos, and written records, to provide a proper
reference for restoration.
      11.   Public Safety: Identify and address any known or suspected
potential hazards to adjacent properties, public roadways, communities,
aviation, etc., that may be created by the project.
      12.   Noise Limitations: Submit sufficient information regarding noise,
so as to demonstrate compliance with subsection B5 of this section.
      13.   Decommissioning Plan: Describe the decommissioning and final land
reclamation plan to be followed after the anticipated useful life, or
abandonment, or termination of the project, including evidence of proposed
financial commitments (such as bonding or letters of credit) with affected
parties (County, any lessor or property owner, etc.) that ensure proper final
reclamation of the solar energy project. Among other things, revegetation and
road repair activities shall be addressed in the plan.
      14.   Other: Other probable and significant impacts, as identified
through the review process. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-16: WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
8-9-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
8-9-16 is to establish minimum requirements and regulations for the placement,
construction and modification of small wind energy systems, commercial wind
energy systems, and wind metering towers and equipment, as defined herein,
while promoting the safe, effective and efficient use of such systems. (Ord.
18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
SHADOW FLICKER: Means alternating changes in light intensity caused by the
moving blade of a wind energy system casting shadows on an object, such as a
window.
TOTAL EXTENDED HEIGHT: Means the distance measured from ground level to the tip
of the blade, extended at its highest point of travel.
TOWER: Means the supporting structure on which the turbine is mounted.
TURBINE: Means that portion of the wind system that is used to capture the
energy of the wind and transform it into electrical or mechanical energy. The
turbine includes a rotor (blades) and nacelle (generator), and on many wind
systems, a tail.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, COMMERCIAL: Means a wind energy conversion system
consisting of one or more wind turbine(s) and tower(s), with associated control
or conversion electronics, which will be used for on-site and/or off-site
consumption of power with a rated capacity in excess of one hundred kilowatts
(100 kW).
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL: Means a wind energy conversion system consisting of
a wind turbine, a tower or other support structure, and associated control or
conversion electronics with a rated capacity appropriate to the on-site
electric usage of the end-use and which will be used primarily to reduce on-
site consumption of utility power. A small wind energy system may have a rated
capacity of up to one hundred kilowatts (100 kW).
WIND MONITORING TOWER AND EQUIPMENT-METEOROLOGICAL (MET) TOWER: Means a tower
that houses or supports wind measuring equipment, such as an anemometer, for
the purpose of measuring and monitoring wind velocity, duration, intensity,
regularity, air temperature and pressure, etc. Met towers are typically
permitted only on a temporary basis (2 to 5 years) to help determine the
viability of a wind energy system project; although more permanent met towers
may also be considered.
WIND TURBINE, HORIZONTAL-AXIS (HAWT): Means a wind turbine designed to have the
axis of rotation aligned with the direction of the wind, such as with the
common propeller-type models.
WIND TURBINE, VERTICAL-AXIS (VAWT): Means a wind turbine designed to have the
axis of rotation perpendicular to the wind direction. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-16-3: REQUIREMENTS - WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL:
   A.   Permitted Locations And Number: A small wind energy system that
complies with the provisions of this section is permitted as described below:
      1.   Only one small wind energy system may be authorized per lot, with
the following exceptions:
         a.   Multiple small wind energy systems may be authorized as permitted
uses on lots that are zoned A-10, A-5, Commercial, or Industrial.
         b.   In the A-2.5, and R-1 Zones, up to two (2) small wind energy
systems may be authorized as permitted uses when the small wind energy systems
are vertical-axis wind turbines and do not exceed forty five feet (45') in
height.
         c.   Schools, churches, public service entities, and similar public
and non-profit entities located on lots larger than five (5) acres in size may
request additional wind turbines through the conditional use permit review
process.
      2.   Multiple small wind energy systems may require greater noise
setbacks than single systems, as addressed in subsection C5 of this section.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: A horizontal-axis or vertical-axis small wind energy
system may be erected on any lot that meets the minimum lot size requirement
for the zone and is capable of meeting the setback and lot size requirements of
this section (see subsection A1 of this section).
   C.   Design Standards:
      1.   Pole Or Tower Design: The design of the small wind energy system may
include a monopole/freestanding design, or a guy- wired tower, whether mounted
on the ground or on a building.
      2.   Total Extended Height: The total extended height of the small wind
energy system shall not exceed eighty feet (80') if located on a lot zoned A-
2.5, R-1 or R-1/2; or one hundred twenty five feet (125') if located on a lot
that is zoned A-10, A-5, Commercial or Industrial.
      3.   Safety:
         a.   The minimum height of the lowest extent of a turbine blade/rotor
shall be fifteen feet (15') above the ground, if on a horizontal axis turbine.
There is no minimum rotor height for a vertical-axis turbine, provided the
blades/rotor must be located or isolated (e.g., fenced) such that they are not
easily accessible to anyone but maintenance personnel.
         b.   No tower shall have an external climbing apparatus within twelve
feet (12') of the ground. All access doors or access ways to towers and
electrical equipment shall be locked when not in use.
         c.   Appropriate warning signage/marking is to be placed on towers,
guy wires, and electrical equipment.
         d.   All small wind energy systems must have a manufacturers' maximum
RPM (revolutions per minute) rating of less than five hundred (500).
         e.   Sufficient clearance to lower and raise the tower and turbine is
to be provided and maintained.
      4.   Setbacks: In determining the required separation of a small wind
energy system from the uses listed, all applicable setbacks are to be followed.
Where multiple setbacks are applicable, the most restrictive applies.
         a.   Property Lines: Small wind energy systems must be set back from
property lines a distance of at least one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
system's total extended height.
         b.   Safety Areas: For safety purposes, a small wind energy system
shall be set back from the nearest property line, public road rights-of-way,
tanks containing combustible/flammable liquids, and above-ground communication
or electrical lines not less than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of its
total extended height if located on a freestanding tower or pole, or if mounted
on a building, the distance of the likely fall zone as determined by an
engineer.
      5.   Noise Limitations: To reduce noise impacts to neighboring
residential properties, no small wind energy system or combination of small
wind energy systems shall produce noise that exceeds fifty (50) dB, as measured
at the property line of any neighboring lot not owned by the small wind energy
system owner/developer.
      6.   Visual Standards:
         a.   Small wind energy systems are to be finished and maintained as
required by the manufacturer.
         b.   No small wind energy system shall be lighted unless required by
the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). When lighting is required by the
FAA, it shall be the red, intermittent, glowing style, rather than the white,
strobe style, unless disclosed and justified through the application review
process.
         c.   No advertising signs of any kind shall be permitted on a small
wind energy system.
         d.   The design of any accessory buildings or related structures
shall, to the extent reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening and landscaping that will blend the facility into the natural setting
and existing environment.
         e.   The property owner shall reasonably attempt to site the system at
a location that minimizes the potential for shadow flicker impacts to
neighboring residences.
      7.   Electrical Interconnections: All electrical interconnection or
distribution lines shall be underground and comply with all applicable codes
and public utility requirements.
      8.   Signal Interference: Efforts shall be made to site small wind energy
systems to reduce the likelihood of blocking or reflecting television and other
communication signals. If signal interference occurs, both the small wind
energy system owner and individual receiving interference shall make reasonable
efforts to resolve the problem. No small wind energy system shall cause
permanent and material interference with television or other communication
signals.
      9.   Over-Speed Controls: Every small wind energy system is to be
equipped with an automatic over-speed control, braking system, or feathering
system.
      10.   Fire Protection: All small wind energy systems are to be provided
with a defensible space for fire protection, in accordance with the Wildland-
Urban Interface Code.
   D.   Permit Applications: A building permit is required for a small wind
energy system. The application is to include the following information.
      1.   Site Plan: A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the location of the
proposed small wind energy system; the locations of all existing buildings and
structures and their setbacks to the property lines; the location of any septic
system, well, utility line or easement, access easement, or any tank containing
flammable materials on the property; the area required for raising and lowering
the tower; the defensible space area required by the Wildland-Urban Interface
Code; and the applicable setbacks for the small wind energy system.
      2.   Noise Compliance Documentation: Provide the information necessary to
demonstrate that the applicable noise requirements of subsection C5 of this
section will be met.
      3.   Standard Drawings For Building Permit: Submittal of engineered plans
and calculations generally provided by the system manufacturer shall be
required to obtain a building permit for a small wind energy system. Plans and
calculations shall be stamped, dated and signed in accordance with Utah State
Codes, ordinances, and laws governing such actions, by the system manufacturer
or an engineer licensed and in good standing with the State of Utah. Plans and
calculations must verify that the structure is designed and capable of
withstanding the conditions of the site, including, but not limited to, wind
load, snow load, seismic conditions, and soil conditions, as required by the
County building official. Soils testing by a qualified soils or geotechnical
engineer who is licensed by, and in good standing with, the State of Utah may
be required.
      4.   Manufacturer Information: Specific information on the type, model,
size, rotor material, rated power output, rated rotor speed, over-speed safety
features, and survival wind speed, as well as the name and address of the
manufacturer is to be provided. These items are typically included in a
specification sheet available from the manufacturer.
      5.   Electrical Information: A line drawing of the electrical components
of the system in sufficient detail to establish that the installation conforms
to the applicable Electrical Code.
      6.   Net Metering Agreement: If the system will be connected to the
electricity grid, the applicant must provide documentation with the building
permit that notification has been provided to the Moon Lake Electric
Cooperative. Where appropriate, a fully-executed net metering permit/agreement
must be provided to the building official prior to operation of a system that
will be connected to the grid. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-16-4: REQUIREMENTS - WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, COMMERCIAL:
The following standards shall apply to all commercial wind energy systems:
   A.   Permissible Locations: A commercial wind energy system may be permitted
as described in section
8-6-1, "Table Of Uses", of this title. Notice of a conditional use permit
application for a commercial wind energy system, shall include notice through
U.S. mail of the date, time and place of the public hearing to owners of all
properties within one-quarter (1/4) mile of any proposed wind turbine location,
based on the County tax roll records. The notice shall be mailed by the County
at least fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing.
   B.   Design Standards: A commercial wind energy system shall comply with the
design standards set forth below.
      1.   Pole Or Tower Design.:The design of the commercial wind energy
system shall be of monopole or freestanding design with no guy-wired towers. No
open-lattice style towers are permitted, unless they are entirely clad with a
suitable cover, such as an architectural fabric, and engineered to consider the
additional forces related to the covering.
      2.   Minimum Blade Height: The minimum height of the lowest extent of a
turbine blade shall be thirty feet (30') above the ground and fifteen feet
(15') above any structure or obstacle within the fall zone of the tower.
      3.   Safety/Access:
         a.   No tower shall have an exterior climbing apparatus within twelve
feet (12') of the ground without preventable access measures. All access doors
or access ways to towers and electrical equipment shall be locked.
         b.   Appropriate warning signage shall be placed on towers, electrical
equipment and wind energy system entrances as set forth by industry standards.
      4.   Setbacks: In determining the required separation of a commercial
wind energy system from the uses listed, all applicable setbacks are to be
followed. Where multiple setbacks are applicable, the most restrictive applies.
         a.   Project Boundary Lines:
            (1)   A commercial wind energy system tower shall be set back from
all project boundaries as set forth by noise and fall zone restrictions with a
minimum setback distance of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of its total
extended height.
            (2)   A commercial wind energy system tower shall be set back from
all existing State highways, County Class B and D roads, tanks containing
combustible/flammable liquids, and above- ground communication or electrical
lines, not less than a distance of one hundred ten percent (110%) of its total
extended height. The County Planning Commission is hereby authorized to grant
exceptions to the setback requirement for a particular tower or tower(s) during
the conditional use permit review process when unique circumstances exist that
warrant special consideration.
         b.   Other Uses: No commercial wind energy system shall be located
within the decibel limitations of subsection B5 of this section, within any
potential shadow flicker prohibition area per subsection B7 of this section, or
within one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of its total extended height of a
park, church, hospital, school, playground, or residentially zoned lot not
owned or leased by the wind energy developer/owner.
         c.   Spacing: Commercial wind energy system towers shall be spaced on
center no closer than one hundred ten percent (110%) of their individual total
extended height.
      5.   Noise: All commercial wind energy turbines/towers shall be located
at the proper distance from the project boundary in so much that the dBA rating
shall not exceed fifty (50) dB at those boundaries. A noise study will be
required, and shall be reviewed by an independent qualified party, with the
associated costs borne by the developer/owner. Failure to operate within the
noise limits specified constitutes a violation of this section.
      6.   Setback And Noise Waivers: Voluntary waivers or reductions of the
setback and noise limits established by subsections B4 and B5 of this section
may be accepted from those neighboring property owners that otherwise would be
within a setback required by either of these sections. A voluntary waiver
agreement must specifically state the County setback and/or noise standard
being waived or reduced, the extent of the waiver, and be in the form of a
legally binding contract or easement between the landowner (including assignees
in interest) and the wind energy developer, effective for the life of the
project. Notwithstanding any such voluntary agreement between the landowner and
the wind energy developer, the agreement shall only be effective and reflected
in the County's authorization of the project when it has been reviewed and
determined acceptable to the County. Any voluntary waiver or reduction
agreement must be submitted with the conditional use permit application and if
authorized by the County, must be filed with the County Recorder upon issuance
of the conditional use permit.
      7.   Visual Appearance:
         a.   Commercial wind energy systems shall be finished and maintained
in color and material as manufactured.
         b.   No commercial wind energy system shall be lighted unless required
by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). When lighting is required by the
FAA, it shall be the red, intermittent, glowing-style, rather than the white,
strobe- style, unless disclosed and justified through the application review
process.
         c.   No advertising signs of any kind or nature shall be permitted on
any commercial wind energy system.
         d.   Accessory buildings or related structures shall, to the extent
reasonably possible, use materials, colors, and textures that will
appropriately blend the facility into the existing environment, giving
consideration to the use and design life of the building or structure.
         e.   A shadow flicker analysis is required with the application for
any commercial wind energy system. The project must be located such that it
will not result in any significant amount of shadow flicker on a County Class B
road, or on any inhabitable structures or residentially zoned lots not owned or
leased by the wind project developer/lessor, unless an easement to do so is
obtained from the affected property owner and presented with the application.
         f.   Appropriate landscaping or screening materials may be required to
help screen accessory structures from major roads and adjacent residences.
Lighting of accessory structures and substations shall be limited to the
minimum necessary and full cut-off lighting (e.g., dark sky compliant) may be
required for accessory structures when determined necessary to mitigate visual
impacts.
         g.   The applicant must provide a view shed analysis of the project,
including visual simulations of the wind energy systems and any significant
planned structures or improvements, such as new roads or substations. The
number of visual simulations shall be sufficient to provide adequate analysis
of the visual impacts of the proposal. More visually sensitive proposals may
require analysis from significantly more vantage points, such as different
distances and sensitive locations.
      8.   Electrical Interconnections: All electrical interconnection and
distribution lines within the project boundary shall be underground, unless
determined otherwise by the Planning Commission because of severe environmental
constraints (e.g., wetlands, cliffs, hard bedrock), and except for power lines
within a substation. All electrical interconnections and distribution
components must comply with all applicable codes and public utility
requirements. Transmission lines (331/2 kV lines and above) coming to or
leaving the project may be overhead.
      9.   Signal Interference: Efforts shall be made to site commercial wind
energy systems to reduce the likelihood of blocking or reflecting television
and other communication signals. If signal interference occurs, both the
commercial wind energy system owner and individual or entity receiving
interference shall make reasonable efforts to resolve the problem. No
commercial wind energy system shall cause permanent and material interference
with television, cellular, or other communication signals.
      10.   Fire Protection: All wind energy systems shall have a defensible
space for fire protection in accordance with the Duchesne County Wildland-Urban
Interface Code.
   C.   Permit Applications:
      1.   An application for a conditional use permit to establish a
commercial wind energy system shall include a complete description of the
project and documentation to sufficiently demonstrate that the requirements set
forth in subsection B of this section will be met. Supporting documentation for
addressing the review criteria of subsection D of this section and the review
criteria in chapter 13 of this title for conditional use permits is also to be
provided. The Land Use Authority may require any information reasonably
necessary to determine compliance with this section.
      2.   It is preferred that any related conditional use permit applications
for substations or transmission lines be considered in conjunction with the
conditional use permit application for the commercial wind energy system;
however, if the details of those improvements are not available at the time of
application for the commercial wind energy system, they may be considered
later, through subsequent conditional use permit review. At a minimum, the
intended route for connecting to the power grid and the alternative locations
of any substation shall be disclosed with the application for the commercial
wind energy system.
      3.   Due to the complexity of large-scale commercial wind energy
projects, the County may require a development agreement or other appropriate
instrument to address taxing, land use, property assessment, and other issues
related to the project. For example, the County is interested in preventing
large tax shifts that may otherwise be incurred by County residents each year
the centrally assessed wind energy project is depreciated; therefore,
cooperation to establish an agreement for payment in lieu of taxes (PILT), or
other acceptable solutions may be necessary. A development agreement or
substitute agreement may be required as a condition of the permit, and must be
approved by the Board of County Commissioners prior to commencing construction.
   D.   Conditional Use Permit: Following the provisions of chapter 13 of this
title, additional or more thorough consideration shall be given to the
following as the County determines whether the project should be approved,
denied, or conditionally approved:
      1.   Project Rationale: Project rationale, including estimated
construction schedule, project life, phasing, and likely buyers or markets for
the generated energy.
      2.   Siting Considerations: Siting considerations, such as avoiding
areas/locations with a high potential for biological conflict such as
wilderness study areas, areas of critical environmental concern, County and
State parks, historic trails, special management areas or important wildlife
habitat; avoiding visual corridors that are essential view sheds or scenic
areas designated by the County after analyzing the applicant's wind energy
system proposal and considering public hearing comments; avoiding areas of
erodible slopes and soils, where concerns for water quality, landslide, severe
erosion, or high stormwater runoff potential have been identified; and,
avoiding known sensitive historical, cultural or archeological resources.
      3.   Site Plans: Site plans, which locate and describe the project
boundaries, all existing and proposed structures, setbacks, access routes,
proposed road improvements, existing inhabitable structures and residentially
zoned lots within one mile of the project, existing utilities/pipelines/
transmission lines, proposed utility lines/structures, existing topography,
existing and proposed drainage ways, proposed grading, natural vegetation
removal, re-vegetation actions, dust and erosion control, any floodplains or
wetlands, and other relevant items identified by County staff or Planning
Commission. All plans shall be drawn at an appropriate scale.
      4.   Analysis Of Local Economic Benefits: Analysis of local economic
benefits, describing estimated: project cost, generated Property Taxes and
local Sales Taxes, percent of construction dollars to be spent locally, and the
number of local construction and permanent jobs.
      5.   Visual Impacts, Appearance And Scenic View Sheds: Potential visual
impacts include, but are not limited to, wind towers, rotors, above-ground
electrical lines, accessory structures, access roads, utility trenches and
installations, and alteration of vegetation. The applicant must provide a view
shed analysis of the project, including visual simulations of the wind energy
systems and any significant planned structures or improvements, such as new
roads on a hillside or substations. The number of visual simulations shall be
sufficient to provide adequate analysis of the visual impacts of the proposal.
More visually sensitive proposals may require analysis from significantly more
vantage points, such as different distances and sensitive locations.
      6.   Wildlife Habitat Areas And Migration Patterns, Including Avian And
Bat Data For The Project Area: Specifically include information on any use of
the site by endangered or threatened species and whether the project is in a
biologically significant area. If threatened or endangered species exist,
consultation with USDFW will be necessary. A plan for ongoing monitoring after
the project is operational for bird, bat, or other wildlife impacts may be
required.
      7.   Environmental Analysis: In the absence of a required State or
Federal agency environmental review for the project (e.g., NEPA), the Planning
Commission may request an impact analysis on historic, cultural and
archaeological resources; soil erosion; and flora in the area of the project.
The Land Use Authority is to consider any impacts to such resources when
determining whether to approve, condition or deny a project.
      8.   Solid Waste Or Hazardous Waste: The application must include plans
for the spill-prevention, clean-up, and disposal of fuels, oils, and hazardous
wastes, as well as collection methods for solid waste disposal. Verification
that all construction waste generated from the project has been removed from
the area will be required before a certificate of occupancy may be issued.
      9.   Height Restrictions And FAA Hazard Review: Compliance with any
applicable airport overlay zoning requirements and the ability to comply with
FAA regulations pertaining to hazards to air navigation must be demonstrated.
      10.   Transportation Plan, For Construction And Operation Phases:
Indicate by description and map what roads the project will utilize during the
construction and operation/maintenance phases of the project, along with their
existing surfacing and condition. Specify any new roads and proposed upgrades
or improvements needed to the existing road system to serve the project (both
the construction and O&M periods) while identifying needed bridges, culverts,
livestock fence crossings (including gates and cattle guards). Also identify
all areas where modification of the topography is anticipated (cutting/filling)
to construct or improve the roadways. Address road restoration or maintenance
needs associated with the construction, ongoing maintenance/repair, and
potential dismantling of the project. Provide projected traffic counts for the
construction period, broken down by the general type/size of vehicles, and
identify approximately how many trips will have oversized or overweight loads.
The County may require financial guarantees to ensure proper repair/restoration
of roadways or other infrastructure damaged or degraded during construction or
dismantling of the project. To provide a proper reference for restoration, the
"before" conditions of the roadways and other infrastructure must be documented
through appropriate methods such as videos, photos, and written records.
      11.   Public Safety: Identify and address any known or suspected
potential hazards to adjacent properties, public roadways, communities,
aviation, radar systems, etc., that may be created by the project.
      12.   Noise Limitations: Submit sufficient information regarding noise,
so as to demonstrate compliance with subsection B5 of this section.
      13.   Shadow Flicker: Identify the potential of any shadow flicker
effects from the project and provide sufficient documentation to demonstrate
compliance with subsection B7e of this section.
      14.   Telecommunications Interference: Demonstrate that the potential for
adverse electromagnetic fields and communications interference generated by the
project has been evaluated and determined unlikely. Conduct a licensed
microwave search and worst case fresnel zone (WCFZ) analysis, including
consultations with the National Telecommunications Information Administration
(NTIA), Interdepartmental Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC) and the National
Weather Service.
      15.   Agreement/Easement For Life Of The Project And Final Reclamation:
All property within the project boundary must be included in a recorded
easement(s), lease(s), or consent agreement(s) specifying the applicable uses
for the duration of the project. Said agreement or easement shall also describe
the decommissioning and final land reclamation plan to be followed after the
anticipated useful life, or abandonment, or termination of the project,
including evidence of an agreement or other financial commitment (such as
bonding or a letter of credit) with affected parties (County, any lessor or
property owner, etc.) that ensures proper final reclamation of the wind energy
project, as well as repairing any road impacts associated with the work. All
required leases, easements, bonds, or other agreements between the wind
development company and the affected parties must be in place prior to
commencing construction, unless specified otherwise by the conditional use
permit.
      16.   Other: Other probable and significant impacts, as identified
through the review process. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-16-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR WIND MONITORING TOWERS AND EQUIPMENT ("MET TOWERS"):
   A.   Permissible Locations: A wind monitoring tower may be located as
described in section
8-6-1, "Table Of Uses", of this title; provided, a wind monitoring tower may be
permitted in the A-2.5, and R-1 Zoning Districts only when it is for the
purpose of investigating the feasibility of a small wind energy system, and
when the monitoring tower complies with the height and setback requirements for
small wind energy systems, as identified in subsection 8-9-16-3C2 and C4 of
this chapter. On lands being considered for a commercial wind energy system, a
wind monitoring tower located on property zoned A-10, A-5, Commercial or
Industrial, for three (3) years or less, is deemed a permitted use, subject to
compliance with subsections B1 through B6 of this section, provided that no
road improvements are necessary, the tower is three hundred twenty eight feet
(328') or less in height and FAA compliance is demonstrated. If road
improvements are necessary, or the tower exceeds three hundred twenty eight
feet (328') in height, or more than three (3) years of monitoring is desired, a
conditional use permit is required.
   B.   Permit Application: A wind monitoring tower and associated equipment
may be permitted subject to the following:
      1.   Owner Consent: Evidence that the applicant is the owner of the
property, or has written permission of the owner(s) to make such application.
      2.   Use Duration: Typically permitted for a maximum of two (2) to five
(5) years, as specified in the permit, and as determined by evidence given at
the time of application regarding known wind source data.
      3.   Height: The allowable height of a monitoring tower not otherwise
limited by subsection A of this section will be established through the
conditional use permit review.
      4.   Setbacks: The setbacks for a met tower from the exterior property
lines of the project, from State highways or public road rights-of-way, from
above-ground communication or electrical lines, and from tanks containing
combustible/flammable liquids shall be at least 1.1 times its total height.
      5.   Tower Security: Any climbing apparatus must be located at least
twelve feet (12') above the ground and the tower must be designed to prevent
climbing within the first twelve feet (12'); or, the tower must be protected by
an eight foot (8') tall security fence. The tower is recommended to be enclosed
with an appropriate fence when there is OHV or livestock use in the area.
      6.   Other: As determined by County staff and/or Planning Commission,
other significant health, safety and general welfare issues may need to be
addressed. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-16-6: REMOVAL UPON NON-USE:
   A.   Any wind energy system that has been permitted by this section
8-9-16 which is not used for two (2) consecutive years, excluding up to six (6)
months for repairs, shall be removed within six (6) months of the issuance of a
"non-use" order. A "non-use" order is a formal written notification issued by
Duchesne County recognizing said facilities have not been used for two (2)
consecutive years. Failure to remove the system as ordered shall be deemed a
violation of this section
8-9-16.
   B.   Any small wind energy system or commercial wind energy system which is
nonconforming with this section
8-9-16 and which is not operable for one year shall be removed within the
following six (6) months. Failure to remove the system as ordered by the County
shall be deemed a violation of this section
8-9-16. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-16-7: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this section
8-9-16 shall apply to all small wind energy systems, commercial wind energy
systems and wind monitoring towers and equipment proposed after the effective
date of this section
8-9-16. Wind energy systems for which a required permit has been properly
issued prior to the effective date of this section
8-9-16 shall not be required to meet the requirements of this section
8-9-16; provided, however, that any such system shall be installed and
functioning within twenty four (24) months of the date of the permit. Any
system that has been installed but not used for two (2) consecutive years may
not be subsequently used without meeting the requirements of this section
8-9-16. No pre- existing system shall be altered in any manner that would
increase the degree of nonconformity with the requirements of this section
8-9-16 and no alterations shall be made to a nonconforming pre-existing system
during its life which exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value. If
such system is destroyed or damaged to the extent of more than fifty percent
(50%) of its fair market value at the time of destruction or damage, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with this section
8-9-16. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
8-9-17: CANNABIS PRODUCTION ESTABLISHMENTS AND MEDICAL CANNABIS PHARMACIES:
   A.    A person may not operate a cannabis production establishment in the
county without a license issued by the assigned State of Utah agency.
   B.    A person may not operate a cannabis production establishment in the
county that is within less than one thousand feet (1,000') of a community
location or within six hundred feet (600') of an area zoned primarily for
residential use, as measured from the nearest entrance to the cannabis
production establishment by following the shortest route of ordinary pedestrian
travel to the property boundary of the community location or area zoned
primarily for residential use, unless the county commissioners recommend in
writing that the state waive the community location proximity limit.
   C.    The county may not deny or revoke a land use permit or business
license to operate a cannabis production establishment on the sole basis that
the applicant or cannabis production establishment violates federal law
regarding the legal status of cannabis.
   D.   A person may not locate a medical cannabis pharmacy in or within six
hundred feet (600') of an area zoned primarily for residential use. (Ord. 19-
373, 9-7-2019)
8-9-18: LARGE CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS OVERLAY ZONE:
   A.   New Large Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations are permitted as a
Conditional Use only within the Large Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations
Overlay Zone. New Large Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations are not
permitted on A-10 and A-5 zoned lands located outside of the overlay zone
boundaries.
   B.   Applications for Conditional Use Permits to operate new Large
Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations within the Large Concentrated Animal
Feeding Operations Overlay Zone shall be processed in accordance with Chapter
13 of this title. Applicants shall comply not only with the Conditional Use
Permit criteria; but also, with any state and federal requirements enacted to
protect surface water, groundwater or other resources. New Large Concentrated
Animal Feeding Operations shall develop a Comprehensive Nutrient Management
Plan (approved by Duchesne County, the Natural Resource Conservation Service
(NRCS) and the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food (UDAF).
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8-4-12, an existing Large
Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation located outside of the overlay zone
boundary shall be allowed to expand (in acreage covered and in animal numbers).
   D.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
8-9-18 (A & B), the expansion (in acreage covered and in animal numbers) of an
Animal Feeding Operation existing as of the date of this Section to a Large
Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation shall be allowed in A-5 and A-10 zones,
outside of the Large Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations Overlay Zone,
provided that:
      1.   A Comprehensive Nutrient Management Plan has been approved;
      2.   All state and federal regulations have been met.
   E.   A change in ownership or operator of a Large Concentrated Animal
Feeding Operation shall not affect the land use status of the Operation,
provided that the new owner or operator continues to comply with all state and
federal agency operational requirements. (Ord. 22-392, 1-31-2022)
8-9-19: FLARE GAS POWER GENERATION:
   A.   All flare gas power generation shall comply with the noise standards of
Duchesne County Nuisance Ordinance, subsection
3-1-4-G. To ensure compliance with these standards:
      1.   The operator of the proposed Flare Gas Power Generation Facility
shall conduct a noise study to determine preexisting ambient noise levels in
the area. Noise level recorders shall be placed at multiple locations, at a
clistance of 1,320 feet from the edge of the proposed facility, where property
owners have provided access for the study. Ambient noise levels shall be
recorded for a period of at least seventy-two (72) hours, to include at least
one weekday and at least one weekend day. The data collected during the noise
study shall be provided with the conditional use permit application.
      2.   Noise emitted from the Flare Gas Power Generation Facility shall
not:
         a.   Cause a material increase in the ambient noise level of more than
thirty five (35) decibels above the ambient noise level as determined in
subsection A1 or
         b.   Together with the ambient levels exceed a maximum noise level of
sixty (60) decibels.
      3.   In the event a substantial question arises concerning the noise
emitted from the Flare Gas Power Generation Facility, the operator shall
conduct a subsequent noise study to verify whether the Flare Gas Power
Generation Facility is the cause of an exceedance of the noise emission
standards set forth herein. If the Flare Gas Power Generation Facility is the
cause of the exceedance, the facility shall not be operated unless noise
mitigation measures have been taken and further study shows that it is
operating in compliance with the noise emission standards set forth herein.
      4.   Flare Gas Power Generation facilities must be set back at least
1,320 feet from the nearest primary or secondary residence or building open to
the public to provide a noise and vibration buffer, unless the owner(s) of said
residences or buildings consent in writing to a lesser distance and said
consent is submitted with the conditional use permit application.
      5.   If a noise study shows that a Flare Gas Power Generation Facility
does not meet the noise emission standards in subsections A1 and A2 above, the
noise source shall be placed in an enclosed sound attenuating building or be
provided with a sound wall or other measures to mitigate noise impacts in
accordance with the noise emission standards in subsections A1 and A2 above.
   B.   Flare Gas Power Generation equipment must not cause noticeable
vibration beyond the 1,320 foot setback or the property line of a consenting
owner under subsection A4. The operator of a Flare Gas Power Generation
Facility may use any method or vibration reduction technology designed by a
professional in the field to achieve compliance with this requirement.
   C.   It is the intent of the County that the terms of this section shall
apply to all proposed Flare Gas Power Generation facilities sited after the
effective date of this section unless otherwise waived by rights of the
affected surface owner(s).
   D.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if future development of any primary or
secondary dwelling (as designated in the county tax rolls) or any building open
to the public, encroaches within 1,320' of an existing Flare Gas Power
Generation facility, the requirements of this section shall not apply. (Ord.
24-407, 7-8-2024)
8-9-20: DUCHESNE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to regulate and restrict the
height of structures and objects of natural growth, and otherwise regulate the
use of land, in the vicinity of the Duchesne City Municipal Airport by creating
the appropriate zones and establishing the boundaries thereof; defining certain
terms used in this section, and referring to the Duchesne City Municipal
Airport Land Use Compatibility Overlay Zones map (Exhibit A), which is
incorporated in and made a part of this section; and, providing for
enforcement.
   B.   Findings. To assist communities in the appropriate land use and height
restriction designations, the FAA has published two documents, FAR Part 77,
Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace, and Advisory Circular (AC) 150/5300-13,
Airport Design. This section incorporates the guidelines set forth in these FAA
documents. Based on this information Duchesne County finds that:
      1.   It is necessary and in the interest of the public health, public
safety and general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions
that are hazardous to air navigation be prevented; and
      2.   The encroachment of noise sensitive or otherwise incompatible land
uses within certain areas as set forth in this section may endanger the health,
safety and welfare of the owners, occupants, or users of the land in proximity
to the Duchesne City Municipal Airport;
      3.   The Duchesne City Municipal Airport fulfills an essential community
purpose.
   C.   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all lands,
buildings, structures, natural features or uses located within those areas that
are defined by the airport overlay district and designated on the Duchesne
Airport Part 77 Surfaces map, which identifies areas of height limitations, and
the Duchesne City Municipal Airport Land Use Compatibility Overlay Zones map
(Exhibit A).
   D.   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the Duchesne
Municipal Airport Overlay District:
      1.   “Airport” means the Duchesne Municipal Airport.
      2.   “Airport elevation” means the highest point of the airport’s useable
landing area measured in feet above sea level. The Duchesne Municipal Airport
is five thousand eight hundred thirty (5,830) feet above mean sea level.
      3.   “Airport-compatible land uses” means those land uses that can
coexist with a nearby airport without constraining the safe and efficient
operation of the airport, or exposing people living or working nearby to
potential negative environmental or safety impacts. Airport-compatible land
uses do not create airspace obstructions and hazards to safe navigation (such
as tall structures, light, glare, electronic/radio, smoke, steam, or other
atmospheric interference emanating from nearby land uses). Airport-compatible
land uses do not attract birds and other wildlife hazards to the airport and
its immediate environs and do not bring high concentrations of people within
airport runway protection zones. Low density residential uses, as defined
herein, are considered to be an airport-compatible land use, in the Outer
Approach/Departure Zone (Zone 4) and the Traffic Pattern Zone (Zone 6). The
entity authorized to determine what constitutes an airport-compatible land use,
in terms of the impact on the airspace, is the FA A, via issuance of a
Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation or a finding that the applicant
does not exceed the criteria of the FAA Notice Criteria tool. The County land
use authority determines what constitutes an airport compatible land use, based
on consultation with the City and guidance found in Advisory Circular 150/5190-
4B (or latest edition) (https://www.faa.gov/airports/resources/advisory
circulars/index.cfm/go/ document.current/documentnumber/150 5190-4) and in the
State of Utah’s land use guidebook: https://www.faa.gov/airports/resources/
advisory circulars/ index.cfm/go/document.current/documentnumber/150 5190-4 and
https: //luau.utah.gov/wp-content/uploads/Airports-and-Land-Use-Guide-8-2018-
Version-WEB.pdf.
      4.   “Approach surface” means an imaginary surface longitudinally
centered on the extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from
the end of the primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone
height limitation slope set forth in Section
8-9-20 F below. The perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the
perimeter of the approach zone in plan view.
      5.   “Approach, Transitional, Horizontal, and Conical Zones.” These zones
are defined in Section
8-9-20 E below.
      6.   “City” means the City of Duchesne, Utah.
      7.   “Conical surface” means an imaginary surface extending outward and
upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty (20)
to one (20:1) for a horizontal distance of four thousand (4,000) feet.
      8.   “County” means Duchesne County, Utah.
      9.   “FAA Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration”
means a form which the Federal Aviation Administration requires to be completed
by anyone who is proposing to construct or alter an object that could affect
airspace and allows the FAA to conduct an airspace analysis to determine
whether the object will adversely affect airspace or navigational aids. More
information regarding this requirement can be found on the FAA website.
      10.   “FAR Part 77 surfaces” means imaginary airspace surfaces, per Part
77 of 49 CFR of the Federal Aviation Regulations, established with relation to
each runway of an airport. There are five types of surfaces: (1) primary; (2)
approach; (3) transitional; (4) horizontal; and (5) conical.
      11.   “Hazard to air navigation” means an obstruction determined to have
a substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the
navigable airspace.
      12.   “High Density Residential” means residential development greater
than one dwelling unit per acre.
      13.   “Horizontal surface” means a horizontal plane one hundred fifty
(150) feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which
plane coincides with the inner perimeter of the conical surface.
      14.   “Low Density Residential” means residential development of one
dwelling unit per acre or less.
      15.   “Obstruction” means any permanent or temporary structure, growth,
or other object, including a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set
forth in Section
8-9-20 F below.
      16.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation,
company, association, joint stock association, or governmental entity,
including a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar representative of any of
them.
      17.   “Primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on a
runway. The primary surface has a width and distance beyond each end of the
runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The primary surface at
Duchesne Municipal Airport is five hundred (500) feet wide and extends two
hundred (200) feet beyond runway end for the current three thousand ninety
(3,090) foot Runway 8/26.
      18.   “Runway” means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing
and takeoff of aircraft along its length; known as Runway 17/35 and Runway 8/26
at the Duchesne Municipal Airport.
      19.   “Structure” means an object (including a mobile object extending 15
feet or more above a roadway surface, 17 feet or more above a highway surface
or 23 feet or more above a railroad surface) constructed or installed by
persons, including, but not limited to: buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formations, and overhead transmission lines.
      20.   “Transitional surfaces” means those imaginary surfaces extending
outward at ninety (90) degree angles to the runway centerline at a slope of
seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically, from the sides of the primary
and approach surfaces to where they intersect with the horizontal and conical
surfaces.
      21.   “Tree” means any vegetation of natural growth.
   E.   Airport Height Limitation Zones. In order to carry out the purposes of
this section, zones are established which include all of the land lying beneath
the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Duchesne Municipal Airport. The zones are shown
on the Duchesne Municipal Airport Part 77 Surfaces Map, which is a part of the
Duchesne Airport Layout Plan (ALP). A parcel located in more than one zone is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
The various zones are defined as follows:
      1.   Approach Zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with
the width of the primary surface and is two hundred fifty (250) feet wide for
Runway 17/35 and Runway 8/26. The approach zone expands uniformly to the width
of one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) feet at a horizontal distance of ten
thousand ( 10,000) feet from the primary surface end. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      2.   Transitional Zone. Transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
      3.   Horizontal Zone. Horizontal zones are established by swinging arcs
of ten thousand (10,000) feet radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. Horizontal zones do not include approach and
transitional zones.
      4.   Conical Zone. Conical zones are established as the area commencing
at the periphery of the horizontal zones and extending outward and upward
twenty (20) to one (20:1) therefrom for a horizontal distance of four thousand
(4,000) feet.
   F.   Height limitations. No structure shall be erected, altered, or
maintained and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone, as defined in this
section, to a height in excess of the applicable height limit established for
that zone. The applicable height limitations for each of the zones are
established as follows:
      1.   Approach Zone. Slopes twenty ( 20) feet outward for each foot upward
(20:1) beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface
and extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand (10.000) feet along the
extended runway centerline.
      2.   Transitional Zones. Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward
(7:1) beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of one hundred
fifty (150) feet above the airport elevation.
      3.   Horizontal Zone. One hundred fifty (150) feet above the airport
elevation or at a height of five thousand nine hundred eighty (5,980) feet
above mean sea level.
      4.   Conical Zone. Slopes twenty (20) feet outward for each foot upward
(20:1) for four thousand (4,000) feet beginning at the periphery of the
horizontal zone to a height of six thousand one hundred eighty (6,180) feet
above mean sea level.
   G.   Safety Measures. No use may be made of land or water within any zone
defined herein so as to:
      1.   Create electrical interference with the navigational signals or
radio communications between the airport and aircraft;
      2.   Make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights
and others; no new or expanded industrial, commercial, recreational or
residential use shall project lighting directly onto an existing runway,
taxiway, or approach/departure surface except where necessary for safe air
travel;
      3.   Result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport or impair
visibility in the vicinity of the airport;
      4.   Create bird strike hazards; or
      5.   Otherwise endanger or interfere with the landing, take-off, or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
   H.   Airport Safety Compatibility Zones (ASCZ). Zones described below are
shown on the Duchesne Municipal Airport Land Use Compatibility Overlay Zones
map (see Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein). A parcel located
in more than one zone is considered to be only in the zone in which the
majority of the parcel is located.
   I.   Zone 1 - Runway Protection Zone (RPZ), Zone 2 - Inner Approach/
Departure Zone, Zone 3 - Inner Turning Zone, Zone 4 - Outer Approach/Departure
Zone, and Zone 5 - Sideline Zone (depicted as Airport Safety Compatibility Zone
1-5 on Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein): Potentially
incompatible land uses within these zones are low and high density residential,
places of public assembly such as churches, schools (K-12), colleges,
hospitals, shopping centers and other uses with similar concentrations of
persons, asphalt plants, sand and gravel mining, rock crushing, fuel storage
facilities or the storage or use of significant amounts of materials which are
explosive, flammable, toxic, corrosive, or otherwise exhibit hazardous
characteristics. Hazardous wildlife attractants including waste disposal
operations, water management and storm water facilities with above-ground water
storage, and manmade wetlands shall not be allowed within these zones.
Notwithstanding the above, airport-compatible land uses, as defined herein, are
allowed in Zones 1-5; provided that the applicant has documented to the County
that their proposal has either not exceeded the FAA Notice Criteria, after
querying the FAA pursuant to 14 C.F.R. Part 77 or has applied for and the FAA
has issued a Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation for the project; the
associated conditions of approval are met and the County land use authority
deems the proposed use compatible after consultation with the City. However,
the storage or use of materials which are explosive, flammable, toxic,
corrosive, or otherwise exhibit hazardous characteristics, oil storage tanks,
and similar facilities for the storage of oil or related produced hydrocarbons
from oil and gas drilling and production facilities is expressly permitted as
an airport-compatible land use, subject to the FAA and conditional use permit
approval process (see Section 8-9-20 (H) (3) below).
   J.   Zone 6-Traffic Pattern Zone. High density residential use is
prohibited. Airport- compatible land uses, as defined herein, are allowed;
provided that the applicant has documented to the County that their proposal
has either not exceeded the FAA Notice Criteria, after querying the FAA
pursuant to 14 C.F.R. Part 77 or has applied for and the FAA has issued a
Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation for the project and the associated
conditions of approval are met.
   K.   Oil and Gas Drilling and Production in All Zones: Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary herein, activities directly or indirectly related to
or necessary for exploring for, developing, producing, storing and transporting
oil and gas, along with all associated hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon
substances, are Airport compatible land uses and are allowed in all zones
provided that the operator has documented to the County that their proposal has
either not exceeded the FAA Notice Criteria, after querying the FAA pursuant to
14 C.F.R. Part 77 or has applied for and obtains a Determination of No Hazard
to Air Navigation from the FAA for each surface location prior to the
commencement of surface disturbance and any associated conditions of FAA
approval are met. The Oil and Gas drilling and production facility operator
shall provide both the County and City with a copy of said confirmation from
the FAA of not exceeding the FAA Notice Criteria pursuant to 14 C.F.R. Part 77
or the Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation. If the FAA determines the
operator has not exceeded the FAA Notice Criteria pursuant to 14 C.F.R. Part 77
or issues the foregoing Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation, no
further permits or approvals will be required from the County under this
Ordinance, but other sections of the Zoning Ordinance may require a conditional
use permit.
   L.   Permits for Future Uses.
      1.   Except as specifically provided in this section, no material change
shall be made in the use of land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise
established, and no tree shall be planted in any zone defined in this section
unless a permit shall have been applied for and granted. Each application for a
permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with
sufficient particularity to determine whether the resulting use, structure, or
tree would conform to the provisions of this section. Each application for a
permit shall be forwarded by the County to Duchesne City for review and a
recommendation. Certain applications may be forwarded to the FAA for a
determination whether the proposal constitutes an airport-compatible land use.
No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this section shall be
granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with this section.
All permit applications within the airport overlay district shall, in addition
to being reviewed through the standard development review process, be subject
to the following:
         a.   All developments, permits or plats with proposed buildings and/or
structures found to be within twenty (20) feet of any of the height limitations
described in Section
8-9-20 F above and/or all buildings and structures over two hundred (200) feet
in height must submit a site plan, building elevations and an FAA Form 7460-
1 to the County. Upon review, further documentation shall be required, if more
accurate data is necessary for a determination of impact including detailed
surveys by a licensed land surveyor.
         b.   All developments, permits or plats falling within the ASCZs
described in Section
8-9-20 H above associated with special use permits, variances or existing
nonconforming uses must also submit a site plan to the County for review.
         c.   In the area lying within the limits of an approach zone,
horizontal zone and conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical height above the ground
except when, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, the
tree or structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such
zones.
         d.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction or alteration
of any structure or growth of any tree in excess of any height limits
established by this section.
         e.   Future uses must meet the definition of an “airport-compatible
land use” in order to be placed in any of the six Airport Safety Compatibility
Zones listed above.
         f.   Approval of cellular and other communications or transmission
towers located within any height limitation zone described within Section
8-9-20 E above shall be conditioned to require their removal within ninety (90)
days of the discontinuance of use.
      2.   Existing Uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction, or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this section.
      3.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned or Destroyed. Whenever the County
determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned, or more
than eighty (80) percent torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow such a structure or tree to extend
above the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
      4.   Variances.
         a.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property not in accordance
with the provisions of this section, may apply to the County for a variance.
The application for variance shall be accompanied by a Determination of No
Hazard to Air Navigation from the FAA and approval by the City.
         b.   A variance shall be allowed where it is found that a literal
application or enforcement of this section will result in an unnecessary
hardship and relief granted will not be contrary to the public interest; will
not create a hazard to air navigation; will do substantial justice; and will be
in accordance with the purposes of this section.
         c.   No application for variance may be considered unless a copy of
the application has been furnished to the City for advice as to the
aeronautical effects of the variance. If the City does not respond to the
application within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the County may act to grant
or deny the application.
      5.   Obstruction Marking and Lighting. Any permit or variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
section, be conditioned to require the owner of the structure or tree in
question to install, operate, and maintain, at the owner’s expense, necessary
markings and lights. If deemed proper by the City, County or FAA, this
condition may be modified to require the owner to permit the City, at its own
expense, to install, operate and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
      6.   Conditional Use Permit. Any use allowed conditionally under the
County zoning code, which will be located in an Airport Safety Compatibility
Zone, shall be treated as a conditional use under that code and shall be
subject to all provisions and procedures required for conditional uses.
However, the proposed use must qualify as an airport-compatible land use. If
the conditional use permit has been requested by Duchesne County, the decision
shall be made by the Duchesne City Council, after receiving a recommendation
from the Duchesne City Planning Commission and the FAA.
   J.   Nonconforming uses.
      1.   Effect Not Retroactive. The provisions of this section shall not be
construed to adversely affect any existing structure or use as of its effective
date, nor require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of
any prior structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to
its effective date, so long as it is diligently pursued to completion.
      2.   Marking and Lighting. The owner of any existing nonconforming
structure or tree is required to permit the installation, operation, and
maintenance of markers and lights deemed necessary by the operating authority
of the airport to indicate to the operators of aircraft the presence of
obstructions. The markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the operating authority of the airport.
   K.   Appeals.
      1.   Any decision of the County staff during the course of administering
this ordinance may be appealed to the Duchesne County Planning Commission
within ten (10) days of the decision.
      2.   Duchesne County Planning Commission decisions may be appealed to the
Duchesne County Commissioners within ten (10) days of the decision.
      3.   If Duchesne County is the appellant, the decision regarding the
appeal shall be made by the Duchesne City Council, after receiving a
recommendation from the Duchesne City Planning Commission and the FAA.
   L.   Disclosure.
      1.   To all extents possible, property owners and potential property
buyers should be made aware of the following disclosure. The disclosure
statement shall be recorded on all approved subdivision plats, minor
subdivision plats, conditional use permits, agreements, deeds and building
permits within any of the identified zones in Section
8-9-20 E or
8-9-20 H above:
         “Properties near the Duchesne Municipal Airport may be subject to
varying noise levels and vibration. Properties near the airport may be located
within height and use restriction zones as described and illustrated by Federal
standards and regulations and the Duchesne City/Duchesne County Zoning and
Subdivision regulations. There is the potential that standard flight patterns
will result in aircraft passing over the properties at low altitudes and during
all hours of the day. Generally, it is not practical to redirect or severely
limit airport usage and/or planned airport expansion. Developments near the
airport should assume that at any given time there will be some impact from air
traffic.”
(Ord. 24-410, 10-7-2024)
8-9-21: ROOSEVELT MUNICIPAL AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to regulate and restrict the
height of structures and objects of natural growth, and otherwise regulate the
use of land under county jurisdiction, in the vicinity of the Roosevelt City
Municipal Airport by creating the appropriate zones; referring to the Roosevelt
City Municipal Airport Land Use Compatibility Overlay Zones map (Exhibit A)
which is incorporated in and made a part of this section.
   B.   Findings. To assist communities in the appropriate land use and height
restriction designations, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has
published two documents, FAR Part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace, and
Advisory Circular (AC) 150/5300-13, Airport Design. This section incorporates
the guidelines set forth in these FAA documents. Based on this information
Duchesne County finds that:
      1.   It is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety
and general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions that are
hazardous to air navigation be prevented; and
      2.   The encroachment of noise sensitive or otherwise incompatible land
uses within certain areas as set forth in this section may endanger the health,
safety and welfare of the owners, occupants, or users of the land in proximity
to the Roosevelt City Municipal Airport;
      3.   The Roosevelt City Municipal Airport fulfills an essential community
purpose.
   C.   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all lands,
buildings, structures, natural features or uses located within those areas that
are defined by the airport overlay district and designated on the Roosevelt
Airport Part 77 Surfaces map which identifies areas of height limitations and
the Roosevelt City Municipal Airport Land Use Compatibility Overlay Zones map
(Exhibit A). (Ord. 24-414)
CHAPTER 10
SECURE TREATMENT FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Conditional Use Permit Required
8-10-2: Application For Permit
8-10-3: Conditions For Issuance Of Permit
8-10-1: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
Secure treatment facilities will be permitted only upon the granting of a
conditional use permit by the planning commission. The approval of a
conditional use authorizing a secure treatment facility is transferable to
other operators, providing there is a review of conditions between the planning
director and the new owner. Further, purchasing parties must demonstrate
compliance with all required state and federal licensing requirements. (Ord.
12-295, 5-14-2012)
8-10-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All applications for a secure treatment facility must contain the following
information, and no application will be considered complete which does not
contain the following:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant.
   B.   Statement of ownership of the subject property executed by the owner or
owner's agent.
   C.   Description of the property, including a legal description and address,
and common means of identification.
   D.   Map of the boundaries of the parcel and each separate lot or parcel
within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries thereof, together
with a list of the names and addresses of the last known owners of public
record of each parcel.
   E.   A statement indicating the precise manner of compliance with each of
the applicable provisions of this title.
   F.   A statement from the appropriate regulatory agency concerning
availability of public utilities, including culinary and irrigation water
(including appropriate fire protection), power, sewage disposal and refuse
disposal.
   G.   A detailed written description of the anticipated ages and total number
of occupants of the facility, together with a diagram of the facility,
including all separate rooms and the intended use of each room.
   H.   A detailed description of the number of intended staff and job
descriptions for such staff.
   I.   A statement demonstrating the capability of the applicant, through
liability insurance or other means (with the county named as an additional
insured), to ensure timely restitution to any member of the public suffering
damage as a result of intentional or negligent conduct by members of the staff
or residents of the facility. Said insurance shall be in an amount not less
than that recommended by the county insurance carrier.
   J.   A statement demonstrating compliance with all required state and
federal licensing requirements.
   K.   Police background check demonstrating all criminal convictions or pleas
of nolo contendere, except those which have been expunged, for five (5) years
prior to the date of application. (Ord. 12-295, 5-14-2012)
8-10-3: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The planning commission may grant the conditional use permit provided that it
is established that the proposed use is in accordance with the provisions of
section
8-13-5-3 of this title. (Ord. 12-295, 5-14-2012)
CHAPTER 11
MOBILE HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-11-1: Mobile Home And Manufactured Home Park Regulations
8-11-2: Recreational Vehicle Parks
8-11-3: Additional Regulations
8-11-4: Classification Of Manufactured And Mobile Homes
8-11-5: Placement Within County; Conditions
8-11-1: MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Approval And Intent; Conditional Use Permit Required: The owners of a
tract of land that complies with the minimum lot size of the zoning district in
which it is located may construct a mobile or manufactured home park thereon,
upon compliance with regulations and restrictions, as herein set forth, and
after approval of a conditional use permit for such mobile or manufactured home
park by the Planning Commission. The intent of this provision is to provide
areas where mobile and manufactured home parks can be properly developed
without adversely affecting surrounding residential areas. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-
2018)
   B.   Conditions For Approval: Before a permit shall be issued for a mobile
or manufactured home park, the developer shall perform all of the steps as
outlined herein.
   C.   Standards And Requirements: The developer of a mobile or manufactured
home park shall conform to the following standards and requirements:
      1.   Ownership: The area shall be in one ownership, or, if in several
ownerships, the application for the approval of the mobile or manufactured home
park shall be filed jointly by all owners of the property included in the plan.
      2.   Dimensions Of Spaces: The minimum dimensions of a mobile or
manufactured home park space shall be fifty feet (50') wide and one hundred
feet (100') deep. The maximum density shall be eight (8) dwelling units per
acre.
      3.   Recreation Area: Not less than ten percent (10%) of the gross area
of the mobile or manufactured home park shall be set aside as playground, or
recreational area for the joint use of occupants. Ten percent (10%) of the lot
area shall be set aside for recreational vehicle, boat and miscellaneous
equipment storage. Parking for two (2) vehicles shall be made available at each
space, with visitor parking provided at convenient locations at the rate of one
parking space per three (3) manufactured or mobile home park spaces. The
remaining land not contained in individual lots, roads or parking shall be set
aside for the common use and enjoyment of the occupants of the development and
visitors thereto.
      4.   Distance Between Homes: No mobile or manufactured home or add-on
shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest portion of any
other mobile or manufactured home or add-on.
      5.   Landscaped Areas: All area not covered by mobile or manufactured
homes, hard surfacing, buildings, off street parking space or driveways shall
be planted in trees, lawns and shrubs, or otherwise landscaped.
      6.   Landscape Strip; Screening: A strip of land at least fifteen feet
(15') wide on the sides, and thirty feet (30') in the front and rear of the
mobile or manufactured home park shall be left unoccupied by mobile or
manufactured homes, and shall be planted and maintained in lawns, shrubs and
trees designed to afford privacy to the development and shall be maintained as
such and shall not be used as parking space. A six foot (6') chainlink or other
approved fence around the mobile or manufactured home park shall also be
required, along noncompatible uses. Screening may be required by the Planning
Commission.
      7.   Receptacles: All storage and waste receptacles outside of the
confines of the mobile or manufactured home must be housed in a closed
structure or closed container.
      8.   Roadways: Roadways shall be connected to an improved County road of
adequate width and surface to accommodate anticipated traffic.
      9.   Access: Access shall be provided to each mobile or manufactured home
stand by means of an accessway preserved for maneuvering mobile or manufactured
homes into position. Interior park roadways shall have a minimum width of
thirty feet (30') if on street parking is allowed and twenty feet (20') if no
on street parking is allowed and at least two (2) paved parking spaces are
provided on each space. Roadways shall otherwise be designed to meet County
standards.
      10.   Prohibited Vehicles: Travel trailers and recreational vehicles
shall not be located in mobile home parks, except in storage areas.
      11.   Additions: Any addition or appendage shall be comparable to and in
excellence of quality, construction and workmanship as required by the County
Building Code applicable to the main structure. It is unlawful to construct any
addition or appendage without first obtaining a building permit from the
building official.
      12.   Utilities: Utility lines and equipment shall be located underground
and constructed in conformity with good engineering and construction practices,
and shall be in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances or codes of the
State.
      13.   Guarantees: No occupancy of a manufactured or mobile home within
the park will be allowed until all required improvements are completed,
inspected and approved. Guarantees, in the form of bonds, irrevocable letters
of credit, escrow accounts or other approved means may be provided to guarantee
construction of improvements other than roads and utility facilities after
occupancy is allowed.
      14.   Business License Required: Prerequisite to the operation of any
mobile or manufactured home park in the County shall be the obtaining of an
annual business license. Said license shall be refused or revoked upon failure
of the owner and/or operator to maintain the park in accordance with the
standards and requirements as herein set forth.
      15.   Health Department Approval: Plans for manufactured or mobile home
parks shall be provided to the Tri-County Health Department for review and
approval prior to construction.
      16.   Code Compliance: In addition to meeting the above requirements and
conforming to the other laws of the County, all mobile and manufactured home
parks shall also conform to requirements set forth in the Code of Camp, Trailer
Court, Hotel, Motel and Resort Sanitation Regulations adopted by the State
Board of Health, and to the Fire Prevention Code, which codes are adopted by
reference, and all restrictions, regulations, and notations contained therein
shall be made a part of this title and title 9 of this Code, as if fully set
forth herein.
      17.   Site Plan: A site plan shall be prepared in conformance with the
standards, rules and regulations contained herein; and nine (9) eleven inch by
fourteen inch (11" x 14") copies and one (1) twenty four inch by thirty six
inch (24" x 36") copy (see section
9-4-3 of this Code) thereof shall be submitted to the Planning Office for
approval or disapproval. The site plan and accompanying information shall be
submitted to the Planning Office at least twenty one (21) days prior to a
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting in order to be considered at
said meeting. (1998 Code § 17.60.010)
8-11-2: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
Recreational vehicle parks shall be conditionally permitted only after a
determination that the following standards are met: (1998 Code § 17.60.020;
amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Size: Recreational vehicle parks shall be located on a lot or parcel
that complies with the minimum lot size of the zoning district in which it is
located. (Ord. 18-365, 6-11-2018)
   B.   Prohibited Homes: Mobile and manufactured homes, as defined in section
8-2-1 of this title, shall not be allowed in recreational vehicle parks.
   C.   Entrances: No entrance from the recreational vehicle park shall create
undue hazard or hardship on a residential development, and no entrance shall be
located closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the intersection of two
(2) streets.
   D.   Setback; Screening: All recreational vehicles shall be set back at
least fifty feet (50') from any public right-of-way. Park boundaries are to be
screened with fencing and/or vegetation at least six feet (6') in height.
   E.   Roadways; Lighting: All interior park roadways shall be at least
fifteen feet (15') in width for one-way traffic and at least twenty four feet
(24') in width for two-way traffic. All road construction is to conform to the
standard road specifications of the County. Outdoor lighting shall be required
along said roads.
   F.   Open Areas: All areas within the court park not intended as roadways
shall be landscaped and maintained with lawns, trees and shrubs designed to
provide privacy and noise containment. Exceptions include, but are not limited
to, one required hard surface parking space per recreational vehicle space,
restroom facilities, manager's office, solid waste facilities and recreational
buildings. (1998 Code § 17.60.020)
   G.   Dimensions Of Spaces: Each recreational vehicle space shall be at least
thirty five feet (35') in width and at least sixty feet (60') in length. No
recreational vehicle or add-on shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15')
from any other recreational vehicle or add-on. (1998 Code § 17.60.020; amd.
2010 Code)
   H.   Density; Water And Sewer: Density shall conform to the zone in which
the development is situated. State approved common water system and state
approved common sewerage system (septic or otherwise) are mandatory for a
recreational vehicle park. No other density or water/sewerage systems proposals
are acceptable. Clustering of recreational unit spaces is permissible. For the
purposes of this title and title 9 of this code, when calculating the number of
units for a development for density purposes, recreational vehicles shall be
calculated as eight (8) recreational vehicles per one dwelling unit.
   I.   Business License Required: Prerequisite to operation of any
recreational vehicle park in the county shall be the obtaining of a business
license. The license is issued only after inspection by the building official.
It is unlawful to operate a travel trailer court recreational vehicle park
without first obtaining a license, and said license shall be refused or revoked
upon failure of the owner and/or operator to maintain the park in accordance
with the standards and requirements of the county. (1998 Code § 17.60.020)
   J.   Code Compliance: In addition to meeting the above requirements, all
recreational vehicle parks shall conform to the requirements set forth in the
code of camp, trailer court, hotel, motel and resort sanitation requirements,
as adopted by the state board of health. Plans for recreational vehicle parks
shall be provided to the Tri-County health department for review and approval
prior to construction. (1998 Code § 17.60.020; amd. 2010 Code)
   K.   Site Plan: A site plan (see requirements in section
9-4-3 of this code) is necessary for the planning commission to determine that
all requirements of this title are met. (1998 Code § 17.60.020)
8-11-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Storage, Use Of Recreational Vehicles: Nothing in this chapter shall be
interpreted to prohibit storage of a recreational vehicle when not in use on
property of the owner, so long as not utilized for housekeeping, living or
sleeping purposes (an exception is allowed for bona fide guest usage not to
exceed 30 days). Recreational vehicles shall not be stored on property so as to
obstruct the view of traffic, or to create a nuisance for adjoining property
owners.
   B.   Setback From Public Streets: All recreational vehicles shall be stored
at least fifteen feet (15') back from any public street in any residential
zone.
   C.   Additions: Any addition or appendage shall be comparable to and in
excellence of quality, construction and workmanship as required by the county
building code applicable to the main structure. It is unlawful to construct any
addition or appendage without first obtaining a building permit from the
building official.
   D.   Existing Nonconforming Uses: Existing recreational vehicle parks not in
compliance with this title and title 9 of this code shall constitute a
nonconforming use, but shall be subject to health and sanitary requirements, as
provided in this chapter. (1998 Code § 17.60.030; amd. 2010 Code)
8-11-4: CLASSIFICATION OF MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES:
For the purposes of this title and title 9 of this code, manufactured and
mobile homes shall be limited to use as a single-family dwelling unit and be
classified into the following four (4) classes:
   A.   Class A: New manufactured homes certified as meeting the national
mobile home construction and safety standards act of 1974 (effective June 15,
1976) of the U.S. department of housing and urban development (HUD).
   B.   Class B: An unaltered, undamaged, used manufactured home certified as
meeting the federal (HUD) standards specified in subsection A of this section
and continuing to be in a condition safe and fit for residential occupancy as
determined by the Duchesne County building official.
   C.   Class C: A used manufactured or mobile home, not certified as meeting
the June 15, 1976 HUD code due to construction before that date or due to
removal of the HUD data plates.
   D.   Class D: Manufactured or mobile homes new or used which have been
damaged as a result of neglect, fire, weather or road transporting, or altered
or modified as a result of the above or at the choice of owners. Units which
contain aluminum branch circuit and units which were not manufactured to meet
previous minimum codes and as a result thereof are now determined to be unsafe,
unsanitary or hazardous for occupancy. (1998 Code § 17.60.040; amd. Ord. 22-
398, 6-11-2022)
8-11-5: PLACEMENT WITHIN COUNTY; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Recreational Vehicles: It is unlawful to place any recreational vehicle
on any lot or parcel of land in the County and to use the same as a primary
residence, except when located in an approved recreational vehicle park. An
exception may be granted by the Community Development Administrator when the
occupancy of a recreational vehicle is for not more than one year, is
associated with a valid building permit for the construction of a permanent
dwelling and appropriate water and wastewater facilities are provided. (Ord.
18-365, 6-11-2018)
   B.   Manufactured Homes: It is unlawful to place a manufactured home on any
lot or parcel of land in the County or within an existing or proposed mobile
home park, except in compliance with the following:
      1.   When a Class A or B manufactured home is temporarily located on a
lot for which a building permit has been issued, and a building is being
constructed, and the home is connected to approved water and sewer facilities,
but not to exceed one year; or
      2.   When placed on a lot that complies with all of the regulations of
the zone in which the manufactured home is located, provided:
         a.   Residential dwellings are a permitted use in the zone, and the
manufactured home is connected to an approved water supply and domestic
wastewater disposal system;
         b.   The manufactured home is placed on a permanent foundation and is
skirted with brick, masonry or other construction materials permitted by the
applicable building code;
         c.   The running gear and hitch shall be removed;
         d.   The manufactured home is entered on the tax rolls of the County
as real property, as evidenced by a letter or other proof from the County
Assessor;
         e.   The roof shall be designed and constructed to meet the snow load
requirements for the given area or a freestanding structure (ramada) is
designed and constructed pursuant to a valid building permit;
         f.   Exterior siding material shall be nonreflective and be similar to
conventional house type siding material;
         g.   The unit must be classified as either a Class A or B manufactured
home. Class C and D manufactured and mobile homes are not allowed to be
installed or occupied in areas under County zoning jurisdiction, including
within existing or proposed mobile home parks. (1998 Code § 17.60.050; amd.
Ord. 22-398, 6-11-2022)
CHAPTER 12
OFF STREET PARKING
SECTION:
8-12-1: Purpose
8-12-2: Off Street Parking Spaces Required
8-12-3: Permanent Parking To Be Provided
8-12-4: Continuing Obligation
8-12-5: Nonconformity
8-12-6: Parking Spaces Required For Dwellings
8-12-7: Parking Spaces Required For Other Uses
8-12-8: Computation Of Parking Requirements
8-12-9: Parking Requirements For Uses Not Specified
8-12-10: Separate Lots
8-12-11: Location Of Facilities
8-12-12: Illumination
8-12-13: Mixed Occupancies
8-12-14: Joint Use
8-12-15: Common Facilities
8-12-16: Submission Of Plans
8-12-17: Parking Space Design And Access
8-12-18: Off Street Truck Loading Space
8-12-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate off street parking and loading
spaces, vehicle traffic and access, in order to provide orderly and adequate
development of these facilities, and, in so doing, promote the safety and
welfare of the citizens of the county. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-2: OFF STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
There shall be provided, at the time of the erection of any main building, or
at the time any main building is enlarged, off street parking spaces, in
accordance with the design standards herein. The number of off street parking
spaces required in connection with any particular land use shall be not less
than that set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-3: PERMANENT PARKING TO BE PROVIDED:
Every building, structure, improvement or use hereafter constructed,
reconstructed or enlarged, shall be provided with permanently maintained
parking spaces, as specified in this chapter, for the area of the construction,
reconstruction or enlargement. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-4: CONTINUING OBLIGATION:
The required off street parking facilities shall be a continuing obligation of
the property owner, so long as the use requiring vehicle parking or vehicle
loading facilities continues. It is unlawful for any owner of any building or
use to discontinue or dispense with the required vehicle parking facilities
without providing some other vehicle parking area that meets the requirements
of this chapter. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-5: NONCONFORMITY:
None of the requirements of this chapter shall apply to a building in existence
before the effective date hereof. No building, as it exists at the time of said
effective date, shall be deemed to be nonconforming solely by reason of the
lack of off street parking spaces; provided, that any portion of the premises
being used for off street parking in connection with any such building shall
not be reduced below existing parking levels or the requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-6: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED FOR DWELLINGS:
Off street parking spaces shall be provided at the rate of two (2) spaces per
dwelling unit. Exception: Housing exclusively for elderly and/or handicapped
shall provide one space per unit. Residential facilities for the elderly, as
defined in section
8-2-1 of this title, shall be treated as a single- family dwelling. In addition
to the above parking space requirements, one space shall be provided for each
paying guest residing in a dwelling unit. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-7: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED FOR OTHER USES:
Except as otherwise provided in this title, the number of off street parking
spaces for various uses shall be as follows:
Banks, business or professional offices 1 space per 300 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Bowling alleys                          4 spaces per lane
                                        1 space per 4 seats or 8 feet of pew in
                                        the chapel or main assembly area, or if
Churches and accessory uses             there is no fixed seating, 1 space for
                                        each 100 square feet of floor area used
                                        for assembly purposes
                                        1 space per 4 seats, including stools,
                                        benches, booths; or 1 space per 75
Eating and drinking establishments      square feet of floor area when the
                                        number of seats is unknown (but in no
                                        case shall there be less than 15
                                        spaces)
Furniture and appliance stores,
hardware stores, household equipment    1 space per 400 square feet of gross
service shops, clothing or shoe repair, floor area
or similar personal service shops
Hospitals                               2 spaces per bed
Libraries                               1 space per 250 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Manufacturing uses, research and
testing laboratories, creameries,       1 space per 800 square feet of gross
bottling establishments, bakeries,      floor area
canneries, printing and engraving
shops, etc.
Medical and dental clinics or offices   1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
                                        1 space per 50 square feet of floor
Mortuaries                              area of assembly rooms used for
                                        services
Motels                                  1 space per motel room, plus 1 space
                                        per employee
Motor vehicle and machinery repairs,    1 space per 600 square feet of gross
sales or wholesaling                    floor area
Museums and similar nonassembly         1 space per 500 square feet of gross
cultural facilities                     floor area
Nursing home, children's home, homes    1 space per 2 beds
for the aged
Professional offices                    1 space per 300 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Restaurants                             See "Eating and drinking
                                        establishments"
                                        1 space per 225 square feet of gross
Retail stores, except as otherwise      floor area on the ground floor, and 1
specified in this section               space per 350 square feet of floor area
                                        on all floors above or below the ground
                                        floor
Rooming houses, lodging houses and      1 space per 2 persons having sleeping
clubs having sleeping facilities        rooms
Schools, private, vocational, etc.      1 space per employee and 1 space per 3
                                        students of driving age
Stadiums, sports arenas, auditoriums    1 space per 6 seats and/or 1 space per
(including school auditoriums), other   100 square feet of gross floor area
places of public assembly, clubs and    used for assembly and not containing
lodges having no sleeping quarters      fixed seats
Swimming pools, commercial and public   1 space per 10 persons based on
                                        occupant load
Theaters                                1 space per 4 seats
Transportation terminals and
facilities, warehouses and wholesale    1 space per employee on the maximum
storage buildings (dead storage or high shift
volume distribution)
 
(Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-8: COMPUTATION OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
When measurements determining the number of required parking spaces result in a
fractional space, any fraction up to one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded, and
fractions including one-half (1/2) and over shall require one parking space.
(Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-9: PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR USES NOT SPECIFIED:
The parking requirements for land uses which are not specified in this chapter
shall be determined by the zoning administrator, or planning commission on
appeal. The determination shall be based upon the requirements for the most
comparable use specified in this chapter. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008; amd. 2010
Code)
8-12-10: SEPARATE LOTS:
If a building, structure or improvement requiring parking is located upon a
separate lot from that upon which the required parking is provided, whether in
the same or separate ownership, there shall be recorded in the office of the
county recorder a legal instrument by such owner or owners for the benefit of
the county stating that such owner or owners will continue to maintain such
parking space as long as the building, structure or improvement is maintained
within the county. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-11: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Off street parking facilities shall be located as specified in this
section. Where distance is specified, such distance shall be walking distance
measured from the nearest point of the building that such facilities are
required to serve.
   B.   For any type of dwelling, parking facilities shall be located on the
same lot or building site as the building that they are required to serve.
   C.   For uses other than those specified above, parking facilities shall be
located not over three hundred feet (300') from the building they are required
to serve. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-12: ILLUMINATION:
Any lights provided to illuminate any parking area permitted by this chapter
shall be shielded and arranged to direct light away from adjacent premises.
(Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-13: MIXED OCCUPANCIES:
In the case of mixed uses in a building or on a lot, the total requirements for
off street parking spaces shall be the sum of the requirements for various uses
computed separately. Off street parking facilities for one use shall not be
considered as providing required parking facilities for any other use, except
as specified in section
8-12-14 of this chapter for joint use. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-14: JOINT USE:
The zoning administrator may, upon application by the owner or lessee of any
property, authorize the joint use of parking facilities by the following uses
or activities under conditions specified in this section. Up to fifty percent
(50%) of the parking facilities required by this chapter for a use considered
to be primarily a daytime use may be provided by the parking facilities of a
use considered to be primarily a nighttime use, or vice versa; provided such
reciprocal parking area shall be continuous, and the joint use of such
facilities is assured by written agreement filed in the office of the county
recorder. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008; amd. 2010 Code)
8-12-15: COMMON FACILITIES:
Common parking facilities may be provided in lieu of the individual
requirements contained herein, provided the total of such off street parking
spaces, when used together, shall not be less than the sum of the various uses
computed separately. If the common facilities are located on more than one lot,
a recorded instrument for the preservation of the parking facilities must be
filed in accordance with the provisions of section
8-12-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008)
8-12-16: SUBMISSION OF PLANS:
The plans for any proposed parking area shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator at the time of the application for a building permit for the
building to which the parking area is accessory. The plan shall clearly
indicate the proposed development, including location, size, shape, design,
driveways, lighting, landscaping and other features and appurtenances of the
proposed parking lot. Where required by the provisions of the respective zone,
the plans shall also be submitted and approved by the planning commission.
(Ord. 08-270, 12-15-2008; amd. 2010 Code)
8-12-17: PARKING SPACE DESIGN AND ACCESS:
   A.   Dimensions: All angled or perpendicular parking spaces shall have
minimum dimensions of nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20'). Parallel parking
spaces shall have minimum dimensions of nine feet by twenty six feet (9' x
26'). The width of each parking space shall be measured at a right angle to the
side lines of the parking space.
   B.   Handicapped Spaces: Handicapped parking spaces shall be designed in
accordance with the applicable building code.
   C.   Access: Adequate automobile access to a garage, carport or parking area
shall be provided. Minimum width of the access drive shall be twenty four feet
(24') for two-way traffic and fourteen feet (14') for one-way traffic. A
greater width of access drive may be required, as determined by the zoning
administrator, if the parking area will serve large vehicles.
   D.   Backing Space: Backing space shall be provided for parking areas which
are composed of five (5) or more spaces so that cars need not back into a
public road. Public sidewalks shall not be permitted to be used as part of the
required backing area.
   E.   Tandem Parking: Tandem parking (front to rear) shall not be permitted,
except for single-family or two-family dwellings when the front and rear spaces
are both designated to serve the same dwelling unit.
   F.   Surfacing; Bumper Guards: Every parcel of land hereafter used as a
public parking area shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other durable
and dustless surface and shall have appropriate bumper guards or curbs where
needed, as determined by the zoning administrator, to protect adjacent property
owners or persons using a sidewalk.
   G.   Landscaping: Parking areas shall be landscaped as approved by the
zoning administrator or planning commission. Where irrigation water is
available, traditional landscaping shall be provided. On sites without
irrigation water available, xeriscape landscaping is required. (Ord. 08-270,
12-15-2008; amd. 2010 Code)
8-12-18: OFF STREET TRUCK LOADING SPACE:
On the same premises with every building or use involved in the receipt or
distribution by truck of materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and
maintained on the lot adequate space for loading and unloading services, in
order to avoid undue interference with public use of streets or alleys. (Ord.
08-270, 12-15-2008)
CHAPTER 13
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Scope And Purpose
8-13-2: Application For Permit
8-13-3: Public Hearing Required
8-13-4: Findings And Conditions For Approval
8-13-5: Specific Conditional Uses Regulated
8-13-5-1: Produced Water Disposal Facilities
8-13-5-2: Surface Or Subsurface Mining And Critical Infrastructure Materials
Operations
8-13-5-3: Secure Treatment Facilities
8-13-5-4: Oil And Gas Drilling And Production Sites
8-13-5-5: Additional Conditions Specified
8-13-6: Term Of Permit
8-13-7: Revocation Or Modification Of Permit
8-13-1: SCOPE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Issuance: Conditional use permits may be issued as provided by this
title for any of the uses for which a conditional use permit is required as
identified in the table of uses and the table of site development standards, as
set forth in chapter 6 of this title.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the issuance of a conditional use permit is to
allow the proper integration into the county of uses which may be suitable only
in specific locations in a zoning district, or only if such uses are designed,
arranged or conducted on the site in a particular manner.
   C.   Conditions: A conditional use permit shall be approved if reasonable
conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed land use in accordance with
applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a
proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or
the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable
standards, the conditional use permit may be denied.
   D.   Variances: Notwithstanding the requirements of chapter 15 of this
title, the planning commission is authorized to review and take action on
requests for variances from any of the conditional use permit standards in this
chapter, during the conditional use permit hearing, using the variance criteria
in section
8-15-3 of this title, unless such variance requests are processed
administratively under the routine and uncontested provisions of section
8-15-8 of this title. (Ord. 10-286, 1-31-2011)
8-13-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All requests for a conditional use permit shall be made on the application form
provided by the county, detailing the nature of the conditional use request.
The applicant shall also provide the necessary information identifying the
purpose of the conditional use request, and all required information shall be
provided to the planning office twenty one (21) days prior to the planning
commission meeting. The planning commission is authorized to render a final
decision on the issuance of a conditional use permit following the review and
receipt of a recommendation from the zoning administrator. (1998 Code §
17.52.030)
8-13-3: PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:
All applications for a conditional use permit shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of this title, and shall be the subject of a public hearing held
before the planning commission for which a minimum of fourteen (14) days'
public notice has been provided and the planning staff notifying all property
owners by U.S. mail within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
conditional use. (1998 Code § 17.52.020)
8-13-4: FINDINGS AND CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Findings Required: The planning commission may grant a conditional use
permit in compliance with this title if, from the application and the facts
presented at the public hearing, it finds:
      1.   The proposed use at the proposed location will not be unduly
detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity, and will
not be detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare.
      2.   The proposed use will be located and conducted in compliance with
the goals and policies of the county general plan and the purposes of this
title.
      3.   That the property on which the use, building or other structure is
proposed is of adequate size and dimensions to permit the conduct of the use in
such a manner that will not be materially detrimental to adjoining and
surrounding properties.
   B.   Conditions:
      1.   In approving a conditional use permit, the planning commission may
impose such reasonable conditions or restrictions as it deems necessary to
secure the purposes of the county general plan and to assure operation of the
use in a manner compatible with the aesthetics, mass, bulk and character of
existing and potential uses in the general vicinity. Minimum conditions shall
be included for produced water disposal facilities, extraction of earth
products and residential treatment or secure treatment facilities as indicated
in section
8-13-5 of this chapter. (1998 Code § 17.52.050)
      2.   When approving a conditional use permit, the planning commission may
impose such requirements and conditions as follows: location, construction,
maintenance, odor control, operation, site planning, traffic control, dust
control, noise, time limits and other items for the conditional use permit as
deemed necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
interest. The planning commission may require guarantees or other evidence that
such conditions will be met and complied with. (1998 Code § 17.52.040)
8-13-5: SPECIFIC CONDITIONAL USES REGULATED:
8-13-5-1: PRODUCED WATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Fencing: The site must be fenced to sustain safety, and prevent access
by livestock, wildlife and unauthorized personnel;
   B.   Compliance With State: Mandatory compliance with state division of oil,
gas and mining (DOGM) general rules, including submittal of the DOGM
application and DOGM approval to the county prior to the receipt of water;
   C.   Odor Control: Mandatory odor control;
   D.   Distance Requirements: Must be located a minimum of two (2) miles from
any state or federal highway, city, town, or primary residential use (as
determined by the county tax rolls) and at least one mile from the property
line of a parcel containing a primary residential use, unless written consent
to locate closer is obtained from the owner of the property containing the
primary residential use;
   E.   Number Permitted: Produced water disposal ponds shall be limited by
number on each conditional use permit to the number of ponds that would be
under construction within eighteen (18) months and completed within three (3)
years of permit approval, and cannot be enlarged or modified until the issue is
re-presented to the planning commission for a new conditional use permit and
the enlargement or modification is approved;
   F.   Section 404 Permit Required: Prior to receipt of water, the applicant
must provide the county with evidence of compliance with the section 404 permit
process administered by the U.S. army corps of engineers and the migratory bird
treaty act administered by the U.S. fish and wildlife service;
   G.   Notice Requirements: Notwithstanding the notification requirements of
section
8-13-3 of this chapter, mailed notice of the public hearing shall be given to
all property owners within two (2) miles of the parcel proposed for the use;
   H.   On Site Operator: An operator shall be on site at all times for
monitoring of the site during receiving operations. The facility shall be
secured against entry when an operator is not present. (Ord. 08-270, 12-15-
2008; amd. Ord. 19-373, 9-7-2019)
8-13-5-2: SURFACE OR SUBSURFACE MINING AND CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE MATERIALS
OPERATIONS:
   A.   Dust Free Condition: Must be maintained in a near dust free condition.
A dust control plan shall be provided by the applicant to the county, the Tri-
County health department and the state DEQ that contains an inventory of dust
control equipment and procedures that will be utilized at the site and a
documented source of adequate water. Rock crushers shall have a DEQ air quality
permit in effect during operation, with a copy of such permit provided to the
county, unless the crusher is considered exempt from permit requirements by the
Utah DEQ. Watering or applying chemical treatments to active mining areas and
driving surfaces is considered maintaining a near dust free condition;
   B.   Bond Required: A bond shall be issued in the amount of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) for the first acre, and three thousand dollars ($3,000.00)
for each additional acre from which such material is taken as a guarantee of
reconditioning. The number of acres must be specified on the conditional use
permit and cannot be enlarged or modified until the issue is re-presented to
the planning commission for a new conditional use permit and the enlargement or
modification is approved. This bonding requirement may be waived in writing by
the property owner but such waiver does not waive the reconditioning
requirements;
   C.   Reconditioning: Reconditioning, in a manner agreed to by the county,
the property owner and the applicant, to assure the surrounding property is
protected along with the beauty of the landscape. Guidelines known as the
"Material Pit Finishing Standards" on file at the county planning department
are suggested for use in reclamation planning;
   D.   Distance Requirement For Surface Or Subsurface Mining And Critical
Infrastructure Materials Operations: Rock crushing operations must be a minimum
of one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') from any city, town or
residential use, measured from the center of the crusher location. In addition,
the surface or subsurface mining and critical infrastructure materials
operation boundary shall be set back six hundred sixty feet (660') from the
edge of the proposed disturbed area to the closest city or town boundary line,
the closest point of a residential, educational, public, religious or
commercial structure or the closest point on the boundary of an enclosed area
of a concentrated livestock facility. In addition, the proposed disturbed area
or surface or subsurface mining and critical infrastructure materials operation
boundary shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from a property line. The
setback requirements may be waived in writing by the owner(s) of land within
the setback area if such owner(s) consents to a lesser distance. These setback
requirements do not apply to land uses owned and occupied by the owner(s) of
the same parcel on which the surface or subsurface mining and critical
infrastructure materials operation would occur.
   E.    Vested Rights: Operations associated with surface or subsurface mining
and critical infrastructure materials operations existing, conducted or
otherwise engaged in before January 1, 2019 and before the county prohibits,
restricts, or otherwise limits the operation are conclusively presumed to be
vested critical infrastructure material operations. Operations existing,
conducted or otherwise engaged in after the county began regulating such uses
remain subject to the terms of any associated conditional use permit approved
by the county. All mining operations are subject to a mining permit issued by
the Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining.
      1.   A person claiming that a vested critical infrastructure materials
operation has been established has the burden of proof to show by the
preponderance of the evidence that the vested critical infrastructure materials
operation has been established.
      2.   A vested critical infrastructure materials operation runs with the
land and may be changed to another critical infrastructure materials operation
conducted within the scope of a legal nonconforming use or the terms of the
county and/or state permit for the vested critical infrastructure materials
operation without losing its status as a vested critical infrastructure
materials operation.
      3.   Notwithstanding the county's prohibition, restriction, or other
limitation on a critical infrastructure materials operation adopted after the
establishment of the critical infrastructure materials operation, the rights of
a critical infrastructure materials operator with a vested critical
infrastructure materials operation include the right to:
         a.   Use, operate, construct, reconstruct, restore, maintain, repair,
alter, substitute, modernize, upgrade, and replace equipment, processes,
facilities, and buildings; and
         b.   Discontinue, suspend, terminate, deactivate, or continue and
reactivate, temporarily or permanently, all or any part of the critical
infrastructure materials operations.
   F.   Notice On Plats: For any new subdivision development located in whole
or in part within one thousand feet (1,000') of the boundary of a vested
critical infrastructure materials operation, the owner of the development shall
provide notice on any plat filed with the county recorder the following notice:
      "Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations:
      This property is located in the vicinity of an established vested
critical infrastructure materials operation in which critical infrastructure
materials operations have been afforded the highest priority use status. It can
be anticipated that such operations may now or in the future be conducted on
property included in the critical infrastructure materials operation. The use
and enjoyment of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any
annoyance or inconvenience that may result from such normal critical
infrastructure materials operations."
   G.   Abandonment Of A Surface Or Subsurface Mining And Critical
Infrastructure Materials Operation:
      1.   A critical infrastructure materials operator may abandon some or all
of a vested critical infrastructure materials operation only as provided in
this section.
      2.   To abandon some or all of a vested critical infrastructure materials
operation, a critical infrastructure materials operator shall record a written
declaration of abandonment with the county recorder.
      3.   The written declaration of abandonment under subsection G. 2. above
shall specifically describe the vested critical infrastructure materials
operation or the portion of the vested critical infrastructure materials
operation being abandoned. (Ord. 12-302, 8-6-2012; amd. Ord. 19-373, 9-7-2019)
8-13-5-3: SECURE TREATMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   Compatible Location: The location of the proposed use is compatible to
other land uses in the general neighborhood.
   B.   Size Of Site: The site is of sufficient size to accommodate the
proposed use, together with all yards, open spaces, walls and fences, parking
and loading facilities, and landscaping as required by this title.
   C.   Streets: The site shall be served by streets of sufficient capacity to
carry the traffic generated by the proposed use.
   D.   Adverse Effects: The proposed use, if it complies with all conditions
of which approval is made contingent, will not adversely affect other property
in the vicinity or the general welfare of the county.
   E.   Setbacks:
      1.   A setback of at least five thousand two hundred eighty feet (5,280')
from any building on the facility site to the nearest existing child daycare
facility, preschool, place of religious assembly, private educational facility,
public educational facility or public park. The establishment of such land uses
within the specified setback area after the occupancy of a secure treatment
facility shall not create nonconformity or be the sole cause for denial of a
conditional use permit for the expansion of an existing treatment facility.
      2.   A setback of at least two thousand six hundred forty feet (2,640')
from any building on the facility site to the nearest existing dwelling unit.
The establishment of a dwelling unit within the specified setback area after
the occupancy of a secure treatment facility shall not create nonconformity or
be the sole cause for denial of a conditional use permit for the expansion of
an existing treatment facility.
      3.   A setback of at least two hundred feet (200') from any building on
the facility site to any facility property line.
   F.   Distance Between Facilities: A spacing of at least five (5) miles
between secure treatment facilities, measured from secure unit to secure unit.
   G.   Fencing Or Walls: Secure treatment facilities shall be provided with
nonclimbable fencing or walls of a design approved by the planning commission.
(Ord. 12-295, 5-14-2012)
8-13-5-4: OIL AND GAS DRILLING AND PRODUCTION SITES:
All construction and development of Oil and Gas Drilling and Production sites
on private lands in the county shall be carried out in accordance with the
following standards and specifications. In the event of conflict between this
section and the statutes, rules, orders and decisions of the Utah division of
oil, gas and mining (DOGM) and Utah board of oil, gas and mining (BOGM), the
statutes, rules, orders and decisions of DOGM/BOGM will control.
   A.   Compliance With Applicable Regulations: All Oil and Gas Drilling and
Production Sites shall comply with applicable federal, state and local
regulations.
   B.   Surface Disturbance: Surface disturbance, including loss or damage to
agricultural lands, irrigation systems, crops or surface improvements due to
oil and gas drilling and production sites, shall be limited to that which is
reasonably necessary and practical to extract minerals. Operations shall be
designed to allow the drill oil and gas drilling and production site owner
reasonable use of the surface. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the
surface disturbance associated with oil and gas drilling and production sites
when the associated surface disturbance is addressed by the terms of a surface
use agreement or other authorization to proceed allowed by law.
   C.   Road Encroachment Permits: An encroachment permit is required from the
county public works department for new road approaches to a county road, for
excavations within the county’s road right of way associated with oil and gas
drilling and production sites or for the placement of pipelines (surface or
buried) within the county road right of way.
   D.   Painting Oil and Gas Drilling and Production Sites: Wed Oil and gas
drilling and production site equipment, such as pumps, tanks, separators and
appurtenances, shall be painted to blend with the surroundings, with the color
choice to be made from the standard-BLA4 environmental colors, with drill site
owner concurrence.
   E.   Lighting: Oil and gas drilling and production site lighting shall be
oriented and/or installed with shielded fixtures so that light is directed
toward the work area in accordance with safety standards but reduces glare on
nearby roads or on lands used for residential purposes.
   F.   Dust Control: Operators of oil and gas drilling and production sites
shall control dust at each individual site and along access roads, in
accordance with the fugitive dust rule contained in the Utah administrative
code.
   G.   Sanitary Facilities: Oil and gas drilling and production sites, during
the drilling and completion phases, shall be served by sanitary facilities for
employees and/or contractors, as required by the Utah administrative code.
   H.   Staking: All surface owners shall be notified of oil and gas drilling
and production site, pipeline and access road survey staking operations
affecting their property prior to such staking taking place.
   I.   Noise: Motors located on an Oil and gas drilling and production site
shall be powered by electricity when located within six hundred sixty feet
(660') of a primary or secondary dwelling, or building open to the public
provided that the power company has adequate capacity and availability of
easements to supply such power. Engines within six hundred sixty feet (660') of
a primary or secondary dwelling or building open to the public that are not
powered by electricity shall be muffled or situated to mitigate noise impacts.
   J.   Minimum Setback: In the interest of public health, safety and welfare,
no oil or gas drilling and production site wellhead shall be located closer
than three hundred feet (300') to the exterior wall of a primary or secondary
dwelling as defined in the county tax rolls or to the exterior wall of a
building open to the public, unless such minimum setback is waived in writing
by the drill site owner or impacted owner.
   K.   Location Of Site Equipment: To the extent practical, oil and gas
drilling and production site equipment, such as, but not limited to, tank
batteries, flares and heater treaters, shall be consolidated at centralized
locations. If centralized equipment is not practical, such equipment shall be
located, when reasonably possible, on the opposite side of the site from the
nearest impacted owners, unless such owners waive this requirement in writing.
For purposes of siting under this section, construction, structural and
engineering requirements such as, without limitation, placement of facilities
on cut rather than fill shall be considered and given deference.
   L.   H2S Gas: Operators of oil and gas drilling and production sites in
areas where H2S gas is likely to be or is actually encountered shall provide
notice to those around the site according to the requirements of the Pipeline
and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) prior to drilling when
H2S gas is likely to be encountered, and as soon as reasonably practicable
after H2S gas is actually encountered or as required by the PHMSA.
   M.   Oil and Gas Drilling and Production Sites located near impacted owners
shall comply with the following:
      1.   If the drill oil and gas drilling and production site owner owns all
dwellings or buildings open to the public within six hundred sixty feet (660')
of the wellhead or the closest edge of a compressor station or water handing
facility, the surface use agreement or alternative arrangement approved by the
Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining, that satisfies the requirements of the Utah
Surface Owner Protection Act, together with the requirements of this section,
including an administrative conditional use permit granted under this section,
shall govern the location and development of the oil and gas drilling and
production site.
      2.   If the oil and gas drilling and production site owner is not the
owner of all dwellings or buildings open to the public within six hundred sixty
feet (660') of the wellhead, or closest edge of a compressor station or water
handling facility, the following process pertaining to impacted owners shall be
followed:
         a.   The operator shall notify, by certified mail, the impacted owners
of the operator’s intent to locate the oil and gas drilling and production site
a minimum of forty five (45) days prior to applying for a permit to drill (APD)
to DOGM and offer to discuss the well site oil and gas drilling and production
site location and mitigation measures with the impacted owners;
         b.   The operator shall consult in good faith with any responsive
impacted owners regarding the location of the oil and gas drilling and
production site and take reasonable actions to mitigate impacts to the impacted
owners. Examples of impacts that may need to be mitigated include, but are not
limited to, the following:
            (1)   Noise.
            (2)   Lighting.
            (3)   Dust.
            (4)   Site security.
            (5)   Emergency notification procedures.
            (6)   Location of roads, pipelines, and production equipment.
          c.   If all impacted owners do not respond to the operator within
twenty one (21) days of the date when the notice above was mailed, the operator
may proceed with filing an application for permit to drill (APD) for the
proposed oil and gas drilling and production site location.
         d.   If an impacted owner does respond within the twenty one (21) day
period, the operator or designee shall notify the county of the results of the
consultation and whether an agreement regarding mitigation has been reached. If
an agreement is reached, the operator or designee may proceed to file the
application for a permit for drill (APD). If an agreement is not reached, the
operator or designee and impacted owners are encouraged to mediate their
differences, if reasonably possible.
   N.   Administrative Conditional Use Permit Required: Notwithstanding the
dimension of the oil and gas drilling and production site setback; in all
zoning districts, the following additional requirements shall apply:
      1.   The operator of a proposed oil and gas drilling and production site
shall, at least thirty (30) days prior to spudding or construction, apply for
an administrative conditional use permit, which shall be considered subject to
the standards and mitigation measures outlined above.
      2.   Notwithstanding the requirements of sections
8-13-2 and
8-13-3 of this chapter, the zoning administrator is given the authority to
grant or deny administrative conditional use permits for oil and gas drilling
and production sites in all zoning districts. If an operator’s permit
application complies with the provisions of this chapter the administrator
shall approve the permit or approve the permit with conditions designed to
reasonably mitigate anticipated adverse impacts. The administrator may deny a
permit only if it is not possible to impose reasonable conditions of approval
to mitigate the anticipated impacts. Such administrative decisions may be made
after seven (7) days’ mailed notice to property owners within six hundred sixty
feet (660') of the boundaries of the oil and gas drilling and production site
owner’s property. Decisions of the zoning administrator made under this section
may be appealed to the planning commission within ten (10) days of the date the
decision is mailed. Decisions of the planning commission may be appealed to the
county commissioners as set forth in section 8-16-3 of this title. An exception
to this administrative conditional use permit requirement shall be granted by
the Zoning Administrator when an oil or gas well has been spudded, or
construction of a compressor station or water handling facility has commenced,
prior to the effective date of this ordinance.
   O.   In addition to the requirements of the conditional use permit, the
surface use agreement or other contractual agreement entered into between the
oil and gas drilling and production site operator and the surface owner or
impacted owner shall govern the wed oil and gas drilling and production site
location and mitigation measures to be implemented. The oil and gas drilling
and production site operator and site or surface owner shall not be required to
disclose the provisions of any surface use agreement or other contractual
agreement to the administrator nor may the conditional use permit application
require an operator or oil and gas drilling and production site owner to
include such agreement or the provisions of the same.
   P.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if future development of any primary or
secondary dwelling (as designated in the county tax rolls) or any building open
to the public, encroaches within six hundred sixty feet (660') of an existing
oil and gas drilling and production site, the requirements of this section
shall not apply.
   Q.   Nothing in this chapter shall require an operator to compensate a drill
site owner, impacted owner, or any third party for any mitigation pursuant to
this chapter. However, all surface use agreements or other contractual
agreements between the oil and gas drilling and production site owner, surface
owner or impacted owner and the operator shall clearly state which party shall
cover the costs of implementing the mitigation measures agreed to by the
parties.
   R.   Transportation Considerations: Notwithstanding the dimension of the oil
and gas drilling and production site setback; in all zoning districts, Oil and
Gas Drilling and Production Sites proposed within Duchesne County shall be
reviewed for compliance with the Duchesne County Transportation Master Plan, as
amended, including the payment of a transportation service fee as set forth in
all applicable ordinances, prior to the commencement of spudding or
construction. (Ord. 12-308, 5-13-2013; amd. Ord. 24-409, 11-18-2024)
8-13-5-5: ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS SPECIFIED:
These conditions may include:
   A.   Landscaping, Design: That the site will be suitably landscaped and
maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers of all
buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve
and/or enhance the appearance and character of the area.
   B.   Parking: Provisions of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress
and egress, loading and unloading areas and the surfacing of parking areas and
driveways to specified standards.
   C.   Streets, Water, Sewer, Fire Protection: The provision of required
street and highway dedication and improvements, and adequate water supply,
sewage disposal and fire protection.
   D.   Signs: Regulation of signs.
   E.   Nuisances: The mitigation of nuisance factors, such as noise,
vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat, glare,
electromagnetic disturbances and radiation.
   F.   Operating Hours: The regulation of operating hours for activities
affecting normal schedules and functions. (1998 Code § 17.52.055)
8-13-6: TERM OF PERMIT:
Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within a
period of eighteen (18) months of its issuance, the permit shall be considered
null and void. (1998 Code § 17.52.060)
8-13-7: REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority: If there is cause to believe that grounds exist for
revocation or modification of an approved conditional use permit, the planning
commission shall hold a public hearing on the question of modification or
revocation of a conditional use permit granted under the terms and the
provisions of this title.
   B.   Conditions: A conditional use permit may be modified or revoked if the
planning commission finds that one or more of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The conditional use permit was obtained in a fraudulent manner.
      2.   The use for which the conditional use permit was granted has now
ceased for at least six (6) consecutive calendar months. This subsection does
not apply to surface or subsurface mining and critical infrastructure materials
operations.
      3.   One or more of the conditions of the conditional use permit have not
been met.
   C.   Modification By Planning Commission: Additionally, the conditions under
which a conditional use permit was originally approved may be modified by the
planning commission without the consent of the property owner or operator, if
the planning commission finds that the use or related development constitutes
or is creating a demonstrated nuisance. Should reclamation be necessary,
complete restoration, to such an extent that the area will not depreciate the
surrounding property or impair the beauty of the landscape, shall be
accomplished within a twelve (12) month time frame. (1998 Code § 17.52.070;
amd. Ord. 19-373, 9-7-2019)
CHAPTER 14
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
8-14-1: Continuing Existing Uses
8-14-2: Expansion Of Nonconforming Use
8-14-3: Repairs And Alterations
8-14-4: Restoration Of Damaged Building Or Structure
8-14-5: Change Of Use
8-14-6: Abandonment
8-14-1: CONTINUING EXISTING USES:
Any use of land, building or structure lawfully existing at the time of passage
of this title may be continued, even though such use does not conform with the
regulations of this title for the zoning district in which it is located. The
property owner shall have the burden of establishing the legal existence of a
noncomplying structure or nonconforming use. (1998 Code § 17.20.010)
8-14-2: EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Conformance Required; Variance: A nonconforming use of land, building
or structure shall not be enlarged, extended, reconstructed or structurally
altered unless such enlargement, extension, reconstruction or structural
alteration and further use of such property conforms to the requirements of
this title for the zoning district in which such property is located, or is
granted a variance by the board of adjustment.
   B.   Hearing: The board of adjustment, during the hearing, shall find:
      1.   The addition to, enlargement of, or moving of the building will be
in harmony with one or more of the purposes of this title and shall be in
keeping with the intent of this title.
      2.   That the proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden
upon the lands and residents located or residing in the vicinity of the
nonconforming use or structure. (1998 Code § 17.20.020)
8-14-3: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or
to a structure housing a nonconforming use. (1998 Code § 17.20.030)
8-14-4: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
   A.   Permitted: A building or structure occupied on a nonconforming lot
which is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other
calamity or act of God, or the public enemy, may be restored and the occupancy
or use of such building, structure or part thereof which existed at the time of
such damage or destruction may be continued or resumed; provided, that such
restoration is commenced within a period of twelve (12) months following the
damage or destruction and is diligently pursued.
   B.   Denial Conditions: The county may prohibit the reconstruction or
restoration of a noncomplying structure or terminate the nonconforming use of a
structure if:
      1.   The structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the
structure is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within six
(6) months after written notice to the property owner that the structure is
uninhabitable and that the noncomplying structure or nonconforming use will be
lost if the structure is not repaired or restored within six (6) months; or
      2.   The property owner has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
noncomplying structure or the building that houses the nonconforming use. (1998
Code § 17.20.040)
8-14-5: CHANGE OF USE:
   A.   A nonconforming use may only be changed to a use allowed in the zoning
district in which the property is located by following the use permitting
procedures as identified in this title.
   B.   An existing nonconforming lot or parcel shall not be enlarged or
modified except to create landscaping, fencing, road widening, or similar
improvements that will provide a safer and more compatible facility, or will
make the lot a conforming or less nonconforming lot. (1998 Code § 17.20.050)
8-14-6: ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Conditions: A nonconforming use may be deemed to be abandoned if:
      1.   A majority of the primary structure associated with the
nonconforming use has been voluntarily demolished without prior written
agreement with the county regarding an extension of the nonconforming use;
      2.   The use has been discontinued for a minimum of one year; or
      3.   The primary structure associated with the nonconforming use remains
vacant for a period of one year.
   B.   Rebuttal: The property owner may rebut the presumption of abandonment
and shall have the burden of establishing that any claimed abandonment has not
in fact occurred. (1998 Code § 17.20.060)
CHAPTER 15
VARIANCES
SECTION:
8-15-1: Authority
8-15-2: Application For Variance
8-15-3: Standards And Required Findings
8-15-4: Conditions Imposed
8-15-5: Effect Of Granting Variance
8-15-6: Time Limitation
8-15-7: Use Variances
8-15-8: Routine And Uncontested Matters
8-15-1: AUTHORITY:
Where the board of adjustment finds that an unreasonable hardship may result
from strict compliance with the provisions of this title, the board of
adjustment may approve variances to the requirements of this title so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided, that
the variance shall not have the effect of nullifying in any way the intent and
purpose of this title. (1998 Code § 17.28.010)
8-15-2: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
An application for a variance may be submitted in writing, on the approved
application as provided by the county, by the property owner. The application
shall state fully the grounds for the variance requested and all of the facts
relied upon by the owner. The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that
all of the conditions justifying a variance have been met. (1998 Code §
17.28.070)
8-15-3: STANDARDS AND REQUIRED FINDINGS:
The board of adjustment shall not approve a variance unless, based upon the
evidence presented by the applicant proving that all of the following
provisions justifying a variance have been met:
   A.   Literal enforcement of the zoning district provisions of this title
would cause an unreasonable hardship for the applicant not necessary to carry
out the general purpose of the zoning district or this title. The board of
adjustment shall not render a finding of unreasonable hardship if the alleged
hardship is self-imposed or solely economic.
   B.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same zoning district. No finding of
special circumstances shall be made unless they relate to the hardship
complained of and deprive the property of privileges available to other
properties in the same zoning district.
   C.   The variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property
right possessed by other property in the zoning district.
   D.   The granting of the variance will not substantially affect the goals,
objectives, policies or standards of the county general plan and will not be
contrary to the public interest.
   E.   The spirit of the requirements and provisions of section
8-3-4 of this title shall be observed and substantial justice done. (1998 Code
§ 17.28.020)
8-15-4: CONDITIONS IMPOSED:
In approving any variance, the board of adjustment may require such conditions
as will, in its judgment, mitigate any negative effects of granting the
variance and secure substantially the purposes of this title. (1998 Code §
17.28.030)
8-15-5: EFFECT OF GRANTING VARIANCE:
The granting of a variance shall not authorize the establishment or extension
of any use, nor the development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or
moving of any building or structure, but is a prerequisite to the preparation,
filing, review and determination of any approval, permit or license that may be
required by this title. (1998 Code § 17.28.040)
8-15-6: TIME LIMITATION:
No variance shall be valid for a period of longer than twelve (12) months
unless a building permit was previously issued or one is issued within that
period and construction started and continually pursued. Total construction
time to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall not exceed eighteen (18)
months, unless an extension of time is granted by the building official.
Variances run with the land. (1998 Code § 17.28.050)
8-15-7: USE VARIANCES:
Use variances or supplementary regulation variances are not permitted. Only
through an amendment to the zoning title or map can use and supplementary
regulation changes be considered. (1998 Code § 17.28.060)
8-15-8: ROUTINE AND UNCONTESTED MATTERS:
   A.   Authority: Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated, this section is provided to
enable routine and uncontested matters to be determined administratively by the
zoning administrator by the provisions of this section.
   B.   Determination: The board of adjustment may identify matters brought
before it as routine and uncontested and provide guidelines which the zoning
administrator shall follow in deciding a matter.
   C.   Procedures: Procedures for review and determination:
      1.   An application for a routine and uncontested matter shall be filed
with the zoning administrator.
      2.   The application must include the signatures of approval of all
abutting property owners in a form provided by the zoning administrator.
      3.   If the signatures of all abutting property owners cannot be obtained
by the applicant, the zoning administrator shall refer the item to the board of
adjustment for determination.
      4.   If the required signatures are provided, the zoning administrator
may approve, approve with conditions, deny or refer the item to the board of
adjustment for a determination.
      5.   All decisions of the zoning administrator will be maintained on file
in the department of planning, zoning and community development.
   D.   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the zoning administrator
in a determination of a routine and uncontested matter may appeal the decision
to the board of adjustment pursuant to the provisions of this title. (1998 Code
§ 17.28.080)
CHAPTER 16
APPEALS
SECTION:
8-16-1: Zoning Administrator Decisions
8-16-2: Board Of Adjustment Decisions
8-16-3: Planning Commission Decisions
8-16-4: Judicial Review
8-16-5: Option To Select Third Party Appeal Authority
8-16-1: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISIONS:
   A.   Appeal To Planning Commission: Decisions of the zoning administrator in
applying the provisions of this title may be appealed to the planning
commission by filing an application and all supportive documentation within ten
(10) days of the date of the zoning administrator's decision. The only persons
with standing to appeal are the applicant, a board or officer of the county or
an adversely affected party.
   B.   Notice, Hearing, Decision: Following receipt by the planning commission
of an appeal of a decision by the zoning administrator, the planning commission
shall give notice and schedule a public hearing. The appellant shall present
all theories of relief to the planning commission, as failure to raise such
theories at this stage of appeal precludes presentation of such theories at
later stages. Following the hearing and the review of all relevant information,
the planning commission shall render a decision on the appeal. (1998 Code §
17.32.010; amd. Ord. 19-373, 9-7-2019; Ord. 20-378, 8-24-2020)
8-16-2: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT DECISIONS:
An adversely affected party aggrieved by a decision of the board of adjustment
may, within thirty (30) days after the decision is made, present to the
district court a petition specifying the nature of the appeal and the grounds
on which they are adversely affected. (1998 Code § 17.32.020; amd. Ord. 20-378,
8-24-2020)
8-16-3: PLANNING COMMISSION DECISIONS:
Any person deemed to have standing by virtue of being the applicant, a board or
officer of the county, or an adversely affected party, may file an appeal with
the county commission within ten (10) days of the date of the decision
specifying the nature of the appeal. Following receipt by the county commission
of an appeal of a decision by the planning commission, the county commission
shall give notice and schedule a de novo public hearing. The appellant shall
present all theories of relief to the county commission as failure to raise
such theories at this stage of appeal precludes presentation of such theories
to district court. Following the hearing and the review of all relevant
information, the county commission shall render a decision on the appeal. (1998
Code § 17.32.030; amd. Ord. 20-378, 8-24-2020)
8-16-4: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
A land use applicant or an adversely affected party may file an appeal to
district court within thirty (30) days of the date of the decision pursuant to
the provisions of Utah Code Annotated. No petition for judicial review may be
filed unless and until the applicant or adversely affected party has exhausted
all manner of relief and processes available with the county as are provided by
this title. Pursuant to the Utah Code, the county may not require that a land
use applicant or adversely affected party pursue duplicate or successive
appeals before the same or separate appeal authorities as a condition of the
appealing party's duty to exhaust all administrative remedies. (1998 Code §
17.32.040; amd. Ord. 20-378, 8-24-2020)
8-16-5: OPTION TO SELECT THIRD PARTY APPEAL AUTHORITY:
The county commission shall act as the appeal authority to hear appeals of
planning commission decisions unless both the county commission and the
appellant agree to allow a third party to act as the appeal authority. (Ord.
19-373, 9-7-2019; Ord. 20-378, 8-24-2020)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose And Intent
9-1-2: Interest Of Public Welfare
9-1-3: Scope And Applicability
9-1-4: Definitions
9-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The underlying purpose and intent of this title is to promote the health,
safety, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
unincorporated territory of the county in the matter of subdivision of land and
related matters affected by such subdivision. The word "shall" is mandatory;
the word "may" is permissive. (1998 Code § 16.04.010)
9-1-2: INTEREST OF PUBLIC WELFARE:
Any proposed subdivision and its ultimate use shall be in the best interests of
the public welfare and the neighborhood development of the area concerned. The
planning office shall notify, by mailing, all adjacent landowners within
designated distance as established by the planning director for each
subdivision proposal. (1998 Code § 16.04.020)
9-1-3: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Compliance Required: No person or agent shall subdivide for the purpose
of transferring, selling, conveying or assigning any tract or parcel of land
which is located wholly or in part within the county, except in compliance with
this title.
   B.   Approval Required: No person or agent shall sell, exchange or offer to
sell or exchange any parcel of land which is a part of a subdivision, or record
in the office of the county recorder any subdivision plat, unless the
subdivision has been approved by the county according to the provisions of this
title.
   C.   Issuance Of Building Permit: Neither the zoning administrator nor the
building official shall authorize any building permit unless the plans for the
proposed erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or use fully
conforms to all provisions of this title. (1998 Code § 16.04.030)
   D.   Penalty For Violation: It is unlawful for any "person" or "agent", as
defined in section
9-1-4 of this chapter, to sell, offer for sale, agree to sell, exchange, or
otherwise convey any parcel, tract or plot of ground which is subject to the
provisions of this title and title 8 of this code, or record in the office of
the county recorder any subdivision plat, without first having complied with
the provisions of this title and title 8 of this code. Any person violating the
provisions hereof shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for each lot or parcel so transferred or sold, or any plat
so recorded.
   E.   Further Subdivisions: It is unlawful for any "person" or "agent", as
defined in section
9-1-4 of this chapter, to further divide any plot, lot, or tract of land within
an approved subdivision prior to obtaining approval of the county as provided
in this title. (1998 Code § 16.04.030; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Violations Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure,
or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this title and title 8
of this code, or any other adopted state or federal codes.
   G.   Applicability: All lots, plots or tracts of land located within a
subdivision shall be subject to this title, regardless of whether or not the
tract is owned by the subdivider or a subsequent purchaser, transfer or holder
of the land.
   H.   Deed Recorded: Upon the sale, transfer or conveyance of any lot, or
interest in any lot which is a part of a subdivision, the subdivider shall
record a deed or a notice of interest evidencing such sale, transfer or
conveyance.
   I.   Utilities Require Permit: A building permit from the county shall be
issued prior to utility companies hooking up any service in the county. Said
building permit is to be issued by the building official to ensure compliance
with all of the ordinances of the county. (1998 Code § 16.04.030)
9-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this title shall have the respective
meanings hereinafter set forth, unless a different meaning clearly appears from
the context:
ADJACENT LANDOWNERS: Any property owner of record, according to the records of
the county recorder, whose property adjoins property proposed for subdivision,
or any portion thereof.
ADVERSELY AFFECTED PARTY: A person other than a land use applicant who either
owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land use
application or land use decision or who will suffer a damage different in kind
than, or an injury distinct from, that of the general community as a result of
the land use decision.
AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, local district, special service
district under Utah Code Annotated title 17D, chapter 1, special service
district act, school district, interlocal cooperation entity established under
Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 13, interlocal cooperation act, specified
property owner, property owners’ association, public utility or the Utah
department of transportation, if:
   A. The entity’s services or facilities are likely to require expansion or
significant modification because of an intended use of land;
   B. The entity has filed with the county a copy of the entity’s general or
long range plan; or
   C. The entity has filed with the county a request for notice during the same
calendar year and before the county provides notice to an affected entity in
compliance with a requirement imposed under this chapter.
AGENT: In addition to the customary meaning, means one who has a written power
of attorney and/or a real estate listing, to act in all respects for and in
behalf of the owner and or subdivider.
AGRICULTURAL LAND: A use of land through ranching and/or farming by production
of food or fiber, or grazing and feeding of livestock or poultry.
APPEAL AUTHORITY: The person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use
application or a variance.
CISTERN: A small covered tank for storing water for a home or farm. Generally,
this tank is rainwater to be utilized for purposes other than in the potable
water supply and such tank is placed underground in most cases. In cases where
the water will be used as the potable water supply, the tank and distribution
lines are of a material and are installed to meet the standards set forth by
the Utah division of drinking water and the culinary water authority.
COUNTY: The unincorporated area of Duchesne County, Utah.
COUNTY B ROAD: All public highways, roads, and streets within the county that:
   A. Are situated outside of incorporated municipalities and not designated as
state highways;
   B. Have been designated as county roads; or
   C. Are located on property under the control of a federal agency and
constructed or maintained by the county under agreement with the appropriate
federal agency.
COUNTY D ROAD: Any road, way, or other land surface route that has been or is
established by use or constructed to provide for usage by the public for
vehicles with four (4) or more wheels that is not a class A, class B or class C
road, as defined by Utah Code Annotated.
COUNTY PLANNING OFFICE: Those persons employed by the county commission or
planning commission, whether under direct employment or consultants under
contractual agreements. Offices under this title include planners, staff and
secretaries.
COUNTY UTILITY EASEMENT: An easement that:
   A.   A plat recorded in the County Recorder’s office described as a county
utility easement or otherwise as a utility easement:
   B.   Is not a protected utility easement or a public utility easement as
defined in Section 54-3-27 of the Utah Code;
   C.   The county or the county’s affiliated governmental entity owns or
creates: and
   D.   Either:
      1.   No person uses or occupies: or
      2.   The county or the county’s affiliated governmental entity uses and
occupies to provide a utility service, including sanitary sewer, culinary
water, electrical, storm water, or communications or data lines;
   E.   Or a person uses or occupies with or without an authorized franchise or
other agreement with the county.
CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject property.
DEDICATION: Land set aside by an owner for any general or public uses,
reserving for himself or herself no other rights than such as are compatible
with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property
has been devoted. The intention to dedicate shall be evidenced by the owner by
the presentment for filing of a final plat showing the dedication thereof; and
the acceptance by the public shall be evidenced by the approval of the plat for
recording by the county commission.
DEVELOPED AREA: An incorporated area (city or town) within the county or an
area that has a central water system, and/or a central sewer system, paved
highways and streets.
DEVELOPER: Any entity, including a corporate person, who undertakes to develop
land, including subdividers.
DEVELOPMENT: The improvement of any tract, lot or parcel of land by
construction thereon, or division thereof.
EASEMENT: That portion of a lot or lots reserved or granted for the present or
future use by a person or agency other than the legal owner or owners of said
property or properties. The easement may be for use under, on the surface, or
above said lots.
ESTABLISHED RIGHT OF WAY: A right of way that has been established by deed,
convenience or court order.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication prepared for
filing for record with the county recorder and in compliance with all the
requirements set forth in this title and adopted pursuant thereto.
GENERAL PLAN: A document that a county adopts that sets forth general
guidelines for proposed future development of the unincorporated land within
the county.
IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE: A surety bond, letter of credit, cash, or
other security required by a municipality to guaranty the proper completion of
landscaping or infrastructure that the land use authority has required as a
condition precedent to:
   A.   Recording a subdivision plat; or
   B.   Beginning development activity.
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY: An applicant’s unconditional warranty that the accepted
landscaping or infrastructure:
   A.   Complies with the municipality’s written standards for design,
materials, and workmanship; and
   B.   Will not fail in any material respect, as a result of poor workmanship
or materials, within the improvement warranty period.
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY PERIOD:    A period:
   A.   No later than one year after a municipality’s acceptance of required
landscaping; or
   B.   No later than one year after a municipality’s acceptance of required
infrastructure, unless the municipality:
      1.   Determines for good cause that a one year period would be inadequate
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and
      2.   Has substantial evidence, on record:
         a.   Of prior poor performance by the applicant; or
         b. That the area upon which the infrastructure will be constructed
contains suspect soil and the municipality has not otherwise required the
applicant to mitigate the suspect soil.
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT: Permanent infrastructure that is essential for the
public health and safety or that is required for human consumption and must be
installed by a subdivider or developer in accordance with published
installation and inspection specifications for public improvements as a
condition of final plat approval and prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
LAND USE APPLICATION: An application required by one of the county land use
ordinances.
LAND USE AUTHORITY: A person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land use application.
LAND USE ORDINANCE: A planning, zoning, development or subdivision ordinance of
the county, but does not include the general plan.
LOT: A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown on
a subdivision or minor subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of
the County Recorder.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: A relocation of a lot line boundary between adjoining lots
or parcels, whether or not the lots are located in the same subdivision, in
accordance with Section 17-27a-608 of the Utah Code, with the consent of the
owners of record. Lot line adjustment does not include a new boundary line that
creates an additional lot or constitutes a subdivision.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: The division of land into four (4) or fewer parcels;
provided, that:
   A.   A minor subdivision survey is prepared by a professional land surveyor
for review and a decision by the land use authority after the required public
notice;
   B.   Minimum lot size and other land use standards are met (or a variance
granted);
   C.   Written approval has been received from the sanitary sewer authority
that the proposed lots or parcels; except those designated as a “remainder” or
as limited to agricultural use are deemed suitable by the TriCounty Health
Department for future onsite wastewater disposal systems;
   D.   All parcels have legal access to an official Class D or Class B road or
State Highway;
   E.   There is a culinary water source for each new lot or parcel, approved
in writing by the culinary water authority (and the Utah Division of Water
Rights if private water wells or springs are proposed to supply water);
   F.   No further division by minor subdivision shall be allowed within three
(3) years if the proposed lots or parcels are not served by culinary water
connections; or one (1) year if culinary water connections are available.
Further division before those time periods shall be accomplished by the
standard subdivision process or by an amendment to the previous minor
subdivision survey, provided that the amendment does not increase the minor
subdivision above four (4) lots or parcels, or create a new subdivision;
   G. Divisions requiring the construction of public roads, public water lines
or public sewer lines are not eligible for the minor subdivision process but
require submittal of an application for a standard subdivision;
   H.   The minor subdivision survey map is recorded in the county recorder’s
office and filed with the county surveyor;
   I.   I.   One new minor subdivision parcel, at least one acre in size and
located at least one thousand feet (1,000') away from another parcel created
under this exemption, may be created from a parent parcel of at least one
hundred (100) acres in size in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 17-
27a-605, including any subsequent amendments;
   J.   Minor subdivisions containing more than one parcel designated as
agricultural parcels may be approved only if such lands are receiving the
greenbelt assessment on the county tax rolls and the property owner(s) signs
and records an agreement stating that such parcels shall remain in agricultural
use until such time as the parcels are approved by the county as building lots.
Parcels designated on a minor subdivision plat for agricultural use are not
approved for recreational use or other forms or non-agricultural use.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary utilization
as determined by the culinary water authority.
OFF SITE: Outside a specific parcel of land being developed or considered for
development.
OFFICIAL MAP: A map drawn by county authorities and recorded in the county
recorder’s office that:
   A.   Shows actual and proposed rights of way, centerline alignments and
setbacks for highways and other transportation facilities;
   B.   Provides a basis for restricting development in designated rights of
way or between designated setbacks to allow the government authorities time to
purchase or otherwise reserve the land; and
   C.   Has been adopted as an element of the county general plan.
ON SITE: Within a specific parcel of land.
OWNER: Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm or association of
individuals, syndicate or other legal entity, however styled or designed.
PARCEL: Any real property that is not a lot created by and shown on a
subdivision or minor subdivision plat recorded in the office of the county
recorder.
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: A recorded agreement between an owner or owners of
adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a
boundary line agreement in accordance with Section 57-1-45 of the Utah Code if:
   A.   No additional parcel is created; and
   B.   None of the property identified in the agreement is subdivided land.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association,
trust, governmental agency, or any other legal entity.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A special form of subdivision allowing for
diversification in the relationship of various uses permitting more flexibility
in the layout of the development. Mandatory for a PUD shall be the construction
of a culinary water source.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Duchesne County planning commission.
PLAT: A map or other graphical representation of lands that a licensed
professional land surveyor makes and prepares in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated sections 17-27a-606 or 57-8-13.
PUBLIC DRINKING WATER SYSTEM: A system, either publicly or privately owned,
providing water for human consumption and other domestic uses which:
   A. Has at least fifteen (15) service connections; or
   B. Serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily at least
sixty (60) days out of the year.
   C. Such term includes collection, treatment, storage, or distribution
facilities under control of the operator and used primarily in connection with
the system. Additionally, the term includes collection, pretreatment or storage
facilities used primarily in connection with the system but not under such
control 1.
PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting that is required to be open to the public under Utah
Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4, open and public meetings.
PUBLIC STREET: A public right of way, including a public highway, public
avenue, public boulevard, public parkway, public road, public lane, public
alley, public viaduct, public subway, public tunnel, public bridge, public
byway, other public transportation easement or other public way. All public
street designations are subject to approval from the county road supervisor,
the planning commission and the county commission.
REASONABLE NOTICE: Posted notice of the hearing or meeting in at least three
(3) public places within the jurisdiction and published notice of the hearing
or meeting in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction, if one is
available, or mailed notice of the hearing or meeting.
RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated section 17-23-17.
REVIEW CYCLE: The occurrence of:
   A.   The applicant’s submittal of a complete subdivision application;
   B.   The county’s review of that subdivision application;
   C.   The county’s response to that subdivision application, in accordance
with this section; and
   D.   The applicant’s reply to the county’s response that addresses each of
the county’s required modifications or requests for additional information.
ROAD SUPERVISOR: The person appointed by the county commission to be
responsible for the maintenance and construction of roads in Duchesne County.
Also, the person who, along with the planning department, evaluates roads to
determine if the roads have been constructed to minimum county road
construction specifications prior to granting a certificate of acceptance for
subdivision purposes. In addition to the above, the road supervisor, in
conjunction with the planning department, evaluates roads to be considered for
inclusion on the county road system. The road supervisor also works with the
planning commission in determining what roads and what type of improvements are
needed on roads throughout the county.
SANITARY SEWER AUTHORITY: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services
or on site wastewater systems.
SETBACK: The distance from right of way line to edge of structure.
SINGLE TRACT OF LAND: A parcel of land, not a part of a subdivision or minor
subdivision, that is suitable for development purposes for residential,
industrial, commercial or public use.
SPECIFIED PUBLIC UTILITY: An electrical corporation, gas corporation or
telephone corporation, as those terms are defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 54-2-1.
SUBDIVIDED LAND: The land tract or lot described in a recorded subdivision
plat.
SUBDIVIDER: Any entity, including a corporate entity, which undertakes to
create a subdivision.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or development, either on the
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and conditions.
   B.   “Subdivision” includes:
      1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat or other recorded instrument
regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or
lot; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used
for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   “Subdivision” does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes;
      2.   An agreement recorded with the county recorder’s office between
owners of adjoining properties adjusting the mutual boundary by a boundary line
agreement in accordance with Section 57-1-45 of the Utah Code if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances;
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
         a.   Revising the legal description of more than one contiguous parcel
of property that is not subdivided land into one legal description encompassing
all such parcels of property; or
         b.   Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate
applicable land use ordinances;
      4.   A bona fide division or partition of land in a county, other than a
first class county for the purpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting
separate parcels:
         a.   An unmanned facility appurtenant to a pipeline owned or operated
by a gas corporation, interstate pipeline company or intrastate pipeline
company; or
         b.   An unmanned telecommunications, microwave, fiber optic,
electrical, or other utility service regeneration, transformation,
retransmission, or amplification facility; or
      5.   An agreement recorded with the county recorder’s office between
owners of adjoining subdivided properties adjusting the mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the
adjustment; and
         b.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use
ordinance.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a “subdivision” under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the county subdivision ordinance.
   E.   A bona fide division or partition of land by deed or other instrument
where the land use authority expressly approves in writing the division in
anticipation of further land use approvals on the parcel or parcels.
   F.   A parcel boundary adjustment or a lot line adjustment.
   G.   A road, street or highway dedication plat.
   H.   A deed or easement for road, street or highway purposes.
SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT: An amendment to a recorded subdivision in accordance
with Section 17-27a-608 of the Utah Code that:
   A.   Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision
   B.   Alters the outside boundary of the subdivision
   C.   Changes the number of lots within the subdivision
   D.   Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public
infrastructure within the subdivision or
   E.   Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION: An application for the subdivision of land located
within the unincorporated area of a county.
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS: The civil engineering plans associated with
required infrastructure improvements and county-controlled utilities required
for a subdivision.
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE REVIEW: Review by a county to verify that a subdivision
application meets the criteria of the county’s subdivision ordinances.
SUBDIVISION PLAN REVIEW: A review of the applicant’s subdivision improvement
plans and other aspects of the subdivision application to verify that the
application complies with county ordinances and applicable installation
standards and inspection specifications for infrastructure improvements.
SUSPECT SOIL: Soil that has:
   A.   A high susceptibility for volumetric change, typically clay rich,
having more than a three percent (3%) swell potential;
   B.   Bedrock units with high shrink or swell susceptibility; or
   C.   Gypsiferous silt and clay, gypsum, or bedrock units containing abundant
gypsum commonly associated with dissolution and collapse features.
TRANSPORTATION AND CIRCULATION: A plan, labeled “transportation and circulation
plan”, approved by the county commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 17-27a-302(2)(b), as amended.
UNINCORPORATED: The area outside of the incorporated area of a municipality.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of Duchesne County, Utah, as adopted by
the county commission and as amended. (1998 Code § 16.04.040; amd. Ord. 08-260,
3-17-2008; Ord. 09-274, 7-13-2009; 2010 Code; Ord. 12-307, 11-19-2012; Ord. 13-
315, 7-8-2013; Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020; Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024; Ord. 25-418, 3-
10-2025)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Variances And Exceptions
9-2-2: Plats Required
9-2-3: Subdivider Agreements
9-2-4: Preliminary Plat Application Fee
9-2-5: Final Plat Application Fee
9-2-6: Recording Fee
9-2-7: Enforcement And Responsibility
9-2-8: Violations
9-2-9: Lot Line Adjustments, Parcel Boundary Adjustments And Boundary Line
Agreements
9-2-10: Appeals
9-2-1: VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Variances Permitted: In cases where unusual topographical or other
exceptional conditions exist, variations and exceptions from this title may be
made by the planning commission.
   B.   Application Required: Application for such variance shall be submitted
in writing by the applicant at the time the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the planning commission. The petition shall state fully the
grounds for the application and all the facts relied upon by the petitioner,
and shall be supplemented with maps, plans or other additional data which may
aid the planning commission in analysis of the proposed project. The plans for
such development shall include such covenants, restrictions or other legal
provisions necessary to guarantee the full achievement of the plan.
   C.   Appeal To County Commissioners: Upon an appeal of the planning
commission decision to grant or deny a variance, the County Commissioners may
authorize a variance from these regulations when, in its opinion, undue
hardship may result from strict compliance. In granting any variance on appeal,
the County Commissioners shall prescribe only conditions that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, as
required herein, the County Commissioners shall consider the nature of the
proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number
of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable
effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No
variance shall be granted unless the Planning Commission or County
Commissioners (on appeal) finds:
      1.   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of land.
      2.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner.
      3.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said property
is situated. (1998 Code § 16.08.010; amd. Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020)
9-2-2: PLATS REQUIRED:
   A.   Content Of Plat: Unless exempt under section
9-3-4 of this title or not included in the definition of a "subdivision" under
section
9-1-4 of this title, whenever any lands are divided, the owner of those lands
shall have an accurate plat made of them that sets forth and describes:
      1.   All the parcels of ground divided, by their boundaries, course and
extent, and whether they are intended for streets or other public uses,
together with any areas that are reserved for public purposes; and
      2.   The lot or unit reference, the block or building reference, the
street or site address, the street name or coordinate address, the acreage or
square footage for all parcels, units or lots, and the length and width of the
blocks and lots intended for sale.
   B.   Acknowledgment, Certification And Approval:
      1.   The owner of the land shall acknowledge the plat before an officer
authorized by law to take acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate.
      2.   The surveyor making the plat shall certify it.
      3.   The county legislative body shall approve the plat as provided in
this title. Before the legislative body may approve a plat, the owner of the
land shall provide the legislative body with a tax clearance indicating that
all taxes, interest and penalties owing on the land have been paid.
   C.   Filing, Recording: After the plat has been acknowledged, certified and
approved, the owner of the land shall file and record it in the county
recorder's office. (1998 Code § 16.08.020)
9-2-3: SUBDIVIDER AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Agreement To Comply: Prior to any preliminary approval of a
subdivision, the subdivider shall enter into an agreement with county as
follows:
   AGREEMENT
This agreement is made by and between                     , hereafter called
"subdivider," and Duchesne County, a municipal corporation of the state of
Utah. Subdivider hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Duchesne County
subdivision ordinance, specifications, and standard drawings. Subdivider hereby
acknowledges that he or she has read the subdivision ordinance (or that an
agent of the subdivider has), and that he or she understands the provisions of
the subdivision ordinance, the specifications, and the standard drawings and
that he or she will fully and completely comply with the provisions and
requirements therein contained to the best of his or her ability.
Dated this       day of                ,      .
   Subdivider/Agent
   B.   Corporate, Partnership Signature Requires Notary: The form of a
corporate or partnership signature shall include a provision for a notary in
which the subdivider represents that the person signing for the corporation or
partnership has the authority to execute the agreement for the corporation or
partnership, and a corporate seal.
   C.   Reimbursement Agreement:
      1.   In the situation where the construction of subdivision improvements
would be of financial benefit to subsequent subdividers, the original
subdivider may draft a reimbursement agreement with the county, subject to
approval by the county road supervisor, the county attorney and planning
commission (who must recommend the same to the county commission), and the
county commission, and in accordance with all county ordinances. This agreement
must be submitted at the time of final plat approval. A reimbursement agreement
shall be made by the subdivider requesting repayment of construction fees based
on:
         a.   A prorated amount determined by the amount of improvement
utilized.
         b.   A prorated amount established on an annual basis, decreasing the
amount of fee to be reimbursed to the original developer with a time frame not
to exceed ten (10) years.
      2.   Payment of construction fees shall be from any new subdivision
utilizing improvements provided for herein, when a reimbursement agreement
exists, and shall be paid prior to final plat approval of a new subdivision, to
the original subdivider.
      3.   The maximum amount to be paid back to the original subdivider shall
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the original construction costs. (1998 Code §
16.08.040)
9-2-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION FEE:
At the time of the filing of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall deposit
with the county planning office, a nonrefundable fee made payable to the
county. The county commission shall by resolution from time to time prescribe
the amount of such fee, which shall be for the purpose of reimbursing the
county for the expense of checking and reviewing such preliminary subdivision
plats. (1998 Code § 16.08.050)
9-2-5: FINAL PLAT APPLICATION FEE:
At the time of filing the final plat, the subdivider shall deposit with the
county planner's office a nonrefundable fee made payable to the county. The
county commission shall by resolution from time to time prescribe the amount of
such fee, which shall be for the purpose of reimbursing the county for the
expense of checking and reviewing such final subdivision plats. (1998 Code §
16.08.060)
9-2-6: RECORDING FEE:
At the time of recording the final plat, the subdivider shall be responsible
for the recording fee. (1998 Code § 16.08.070)
9-2-7: ENFORCEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Permit, License Issuance: The county building official shall not issue
any permit for the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
enlargement, conversion, or use until full compliance with all the provisions
of this title and title 8 of this code, is achieved. No county officer shall
issue any permit or license for the use of any building, structure, or land
when such land is part of a "subdivision", as defined in section
9-1-4 of this title, until such subdivision has been approved and recorded in
the county recorder's office. Any license or permit issued in conflict with
this title and title 8 of this code shall be null and void.
   B.   Exception: Nothing in this title or title 8 of this code shall prevent
the restoration of a building or structure on a nonconforming lot destroyed by
fire, windstorm, flood or explosion, or act of public enemy or accident, or
prevent the continuance of the use thereof as it existed at the time of such
destruction; provided, that restoration begins within one year of such
destruction and there are no life, safety and health violations. (1998 Code §
16.08.080; amd. Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020)
9-2-8: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Illegal Land Sales:
      1.   If a subdivision requires a plat an owner of any land located in a
subdivision who transfers or sells any land in that subdivision before a plat
of the subdivision has been approved and recorded violates this part for each
lot or parcel transferred or sold.
      2.   The description by metes and bounds in an instrument of transfer or
other documents used in the process of selling or transferring does not exempt
the transaction from being a violation of this subsection or from the penalties
or remedies provided in this section.
      3.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the
recording of an instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of
selling or transferring real property that violates this part:
         a.   Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document:
and
         b.   Does not affect whether the property that is the subject of the
instrument or other document complies with applicable county ordinances on land
use and development.
   B.   Curing A Violation:
      1.   A county may bring an action against an owner to require the
property to conform to the provisions of this part or an ordinance enacted
under the authority of this part.
      2.   An action under this subsection may include an injunction or any
other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or enjoin the violation.
      3.   A county need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction.
   C.   Withholding Of Building Permits:
      1.   The County may enforce the provisions of the subdivision ordinance
by withholding a building permit.
      2.   It is unlawful to erect, construct, re-construct, alter or change
the use of any building or other structure within the County without approval
of a building permit.
      3.   The County may not issue a building permit unless the plans of and
for the proposed erection, construction, re-construction, alteration or use
fully conform to all regulations then in effect.
      4.   The County may not deny an applicant a building permit or
certificate of occupancy because the applicant has not completed an
infrastructure improvement:
         a.   That is not essential to meet the requirements for the issuance
of a building permit or certificate of occupancy under the building code and
fire code; and
         b.   For which the county has accepted an improvement completion
assurance for landscaping or infrastructure improvements for the development.
(Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020)
9-2-9: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS, PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS AND BOUNDARY LINE
AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Lot Line Adjustments: Lot line adjustments, which adjust a lot line in
a platted subdivision, may be approved by the community development
administrator if:
      1.   No new lot is created;
      2.   The adjustment does not violate the provisions of the Duchesne
County zoning or subdivision ordinances;
      3.   The adjustment is approved by the Tri-County health department with
respect to domestic well and wastewater system location;
      4.   Access and utility easements are provided if deemed necessary by the
community development director;
      5.   A record of survey is submitted to the community development
director for review and approval.
   B.   Parcel Boundary Adjustment:
      1.   A property owner:
         a.   May execute a parcel boundary adjustment by quitclaim deed or by
a boundary line agreement as described in section 57-1-45 of the Utah code; and
         b.   Shall record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the
office of the county recorder.
      2.   A parcel boundary adjustment is not subject to the review of a land
use authority; however, it is strongly encouraged that parcel boundary
adjustments be submitted to the community development director for the same
review provided for lot line adjustments.
   C.   Boundary Line Agreement:
      1.   As used in this section, "boundary line agreement" is an agreement
described in section 57-1-45 of the Utah code.
      2.   A property owner:
         a.   May execute a boundary line agreement; and
         b.   Shall record a boundary line agreement in the office of the
county recorder.
      3.   A boundary line agreement is not subject to the review of a land use
authority; however, it is strongly encouraged that boundary line agreements be
submitted to the community development director for the same review provided
for lot line adjustments. (Ord. 13-315, 7-8-2013)
9-2-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Decisions of the county planning office in applying the provisions of
this title may be appealed to the planning commission by filing an application
and all supportive documentation within ten (10) days of the date of the
decision. The only persons with standing to appeal are the applicant, a board
or officer of the county or an adversely affected party.
   B.   Following receipt by the planning commission of an appeal of a decision
by the county planning office, the planning commission shall give notice and
schedule a public hearing. The appellant shall present all theories of relief
to the planning commission, as failure to raise such theories at this stage of
appeal precludes presentation of such theories at later stages. Following the
hearing and the review of all relevant information, the planning commission
shall render a decision on the appeal.
   C.   Any person deemed to have standing by virtue of being the applicant, a
board or officer of the county, or an adversely affected party, may file an
appeal with the county commission within ten (10) days of the date of the
decision specifying the nature of the appeal. Following receipt by the county
commission of an appeal of a decision by the planning commission, the county
commission shall give notice and schedule a de novo public hearing. The
appellant shall present all theories of relief to the county commission as
failure to raise such theories at this stage of appeal precludes presentation
of such theories to district court. Following the hearing and the review of all
relevant information, the county commission shall render a decision on the
appeal.
   D.   A land use applicant or an adversely affected party may file an appeal
to district court within thirty (30) days of the date of the decision pursuant
to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated. No petition for judicial review may
be filed unless and until the applicant or adversely affected party has
exhausted all manner of relief and processes available with the county as are
provided by this title.
   E.   Pursuant to the Utah Code, the county may not require that a land use
applicant or adversely affected party pursue duplicate or successive appeals
before the same or separate appeal authorities as a condition of the appealing
party's duty to exhaust all administrative remedies.
   F.    The county commission shall act as the appeal authority to hear
appeals of planning commission decisions unless both the county commission and
the appellant agree to allow a third party to act as the appeal authority.
(Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Review Procedures Specified
9-3-2: Reserved For Future Use
9-3-3: Minor Subdivision Review Procedures
9-3-4: Exemption From Subdivision Plat Requirement
9-3-5: Private Roads Changed To County Roads
9-3-6: Phase Development
9-3-7: Establishment Of Homeowners' Association
9-3-1: REVIEW PROCEDURES SPECIFIED:
The county commissioners or the planning commission shall use the following
guidelines to regulate subdivision review:
   A.   Phased Development: Phased development may be required on all
subdivisions where the planning commission or county commission deems it best
to develop the property in an orderly and feasible fashion. See section
9-3-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Denial Based On Hardship To County: A subdivision may be denied on the
grounds that it places an undue hardship on the county and the services the
county provides (i.e., road maintenance, school bus routes, and tax increases
to other county residents due to "urban sprawl").
   C.   Approval Based On Homeowners' Association: If the county commissioners
or the planning commission finds that the costs of providing services to a
subdivision would be excessive, such a finding can be the basis for disapproval
of a subdivision. The subdivider may then, if so desired, provide that the
services within the subdivision would be provided by a homeowners' association.
Additionally a subdivider may propose a homeowners' association in other
situations where development and the use of the subdivision would best be
accomplished by such an association. If the respective commissions find that
the association can provide the necessary services, the subdivision may be
approved.
   D.   Steps To Initiate Subdivision Review: To initiate subdivision review,
the following steps are necessary:
      1.   The subdivider contacts the county planner's office for information
concerning the county subdivision requirements and compatibility with the
county general plan, and discusses with staff members the proposed plan of
development prior to preparing any plats, plans or charts. At this time, the
subdivider shall also submit an application for subdivision approval, on a form
provided by the county planner's office. The subdivider shall ensure a copy of
the surveyor's license is on file with the planning office.
      2.   The subdivider pays the preliminary plat fee.
      3.   The subdivider ascertains that he or she has made application or
provides proof of exemption with all requirements of the Utah uniform land
sales practices act, Utah Code Annotated section 57-11-1 et seq., as amended.
      4.   The subdivider submits the following to the county planner's office:
         a.   Nine (9) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") copies and one
twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") copy of the preliminary plat
prepared by a registered surveyor.
         b.   For a subdivision with a proposed water source or on site
wastewater systems, a letter from the Tri-County health department approving
both the on site wastewater system and the proposed water source.
         c.   For a subdivision with electrical power available, a letter from
Moon Lake Electric stating that power is available and is currently located
within the proposed subdivision, or will be extended to serve the subdivision.
         d.   For any subdivision of ten (10) lots or more, a public offering
statement covering all items identified in section
9-3-2 of this chapter.
      5.   The county planning staff will review the documents and make
recommendations. Ten (10) working days are allowed for completion of staff
review and to notify, by mail, adjoining property owners within designated
distance as established by the planning director. Said notice of the date, time
and place of the planning commission public hearing to consider the preliminary
plat must be mailed not less than three (3) days before the public hearing and
be addressed to the record owner of each parcel within three hundred feet
(300') of the subject property. As an alternative to mailed notice, the county
may post notice of the hearing on the property proposed for subdivision, in a
visible location, with a sign of sufficient size, durability and print quality
that is reasonably calculated to give notice to passersby, at least three (3)
days in advance of the hearing. Notice of a preliminary plat associated with a
multiple unit residential, commercial or industrial development shall be
provided to all affected entities.
      6.   Upon completion of the staff review, the county planner's office
will place the item on the planning commission agenda. Health department
approval is mandatory prior to an item being placed on the planning commission
agenda, which means this approval must be received ten (10) working days prior
to the planning commission meeting. In the event any checklist requirement is
lacking at close of business on the Friday preceding the scheduled planning
commission meeting, the planning director shall remove the proposal from the
planning commission agenda.
      7.   The planning commission will meet and review the preliminary plat
and take action. The subdivider or agent must attend and present the plat.
      8.   If approval is given, the subdivider then may proceed with final
approval by submitting nine (9) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") paper
copies and one twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") Mylar signed by
the landowners, notarized and verified by the county recorder's office to the
accuracy of the landowners, to the county planner's office ten (10) working
days prior to the scheduled planning commission meetings.
      9.   The county planning staff will review the documents and make
recommendations.
      10.   In addition, the subdivider submits the following to the county
planner's office:
         a.   Final plat fees.
         b.   Checklist requirements submitted and completed. Any checklist
requirement lacking, whether from the subdivider, their agent or county legal
counsel or road supervisor by close of business on the Friday preceding the
scheduled planning commission meeting, the planning director shall remove the
proposal from the planning commission agenda.
      11.   The county road supervisor will inspect and, upon approval, issue
the planning office a letter of road approval.
      12.   Upon approved completion of the staff review, the county planning
office will schedule the final plat for review by the county planning
commission.
      13.   Upon receipt (mandatory 10 working days prior to scheduled planning
commission meeting) of the final plat approval and review, the planning office
submits the following to the county attorney's office for their review and
approval:
         a.   Complete improvements or provide guarantee;
         b.   Agreements, including developer's title agreement, if needed;
         c.   Developer's title agreement, which shall be substantially in the
following form:
   DEVELOPER'S TITLE AGREEMENT
The undersigned holder of a security interest in the described real property
hereby acknowledges acceptance of the subdivision, and agrees that provisions
have been made to ensure that purchasers of lots or parcels within the
subdivision will obtain clear title to said property upon payment of the
purchase price.
      14.   The planning commission will meet and review the final plat and
take action. The subdivider or agent must attend and present the plat.
Additionally, the subdivider is responsible to ensure the owner's dedication is
properly signed and approved by the county recorder prior to final plat
approval.
      15.   If approval is recommended, the final plat will be signed by the
planning commission chairperson.
      16.   When the planning commission has recommended approval of the final
plat, the planning director will place the item on the county commission
agenda.
      17.   The subdivider or agent shall meet during a regularly scheduled
meeting with the county commissioners and present the plat, along with the
planning director, who shall present the planning commission's recommendation.
      18.   If approval is given, the subdivider must do the following at the
county offices:
         a.   Pay the following fees:
            (1)   Recording fees;
            (2)   Other fees as may be enacted by the county commission;
         b.   Provide guarantee of improvements.
      19.   When the requirements above are met, the final plat will be signed
by the county commission chairperson.
      20.   The subdivider shall be responsible to record the final plat and
the public offering statement, as required, with the county recorder within
ninety (90) days. (1998 Code § 16.12.010; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-2: RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE:
9-3-3: MINOR SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURES:
The community development administrator, or designee is the land use authority
for minor subdivisions and shall act as the hearing officer for minor
subdivisions, including minor subdivisions that amend a platted subdivision,
under the administrative hearing authority given in section 17-53-228 of the
Utah code. A notice of intent to act upon a minor subdivision request shall be
mailed to property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the land being
subdivided. Said notice to be mailed at least seven (7) days in advance of the
administrative decision date. The community development administrator shall use
the standards in the definition of “minor subdivision”, as defined in section
9-1-4  of this title, in making the decision to approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the request. The Planning Commission shall serve as the
appeal authority for administrative minor subdivision decisions.
   A.   For minor subdivision parcels created under Section 17-27a-605 of the
Utah Code, and subsequent amendments, the above review process is not required.
However, prior to the issuance of a building permit for such a parcel, the
following shall be provided to the county, in addition to any submittal
requirements of the Building Division of the Community Development Department:
      1.   A site plan showing the location of the proposed building in
relation to lot or parcel boundaries prepared by a surveyor licensed in Utah,
to ensure that the building meets safety setback standards of title 8 of this
code;
      2.   Proof of purchase of a culinary water connection if the lot or
parcel is equal to or less than two and one-half (21/2) acres in size;
      3.   Proof of an approved water right, from the State Division of Water
Rights, for a private water well, or proof of purchase of a culinary water
connection, if the parcel is between two and one-half (21/2) and forty (40)
acres in size. Water hauling is not allowed for new lots or parcels created
under this exemption;
      4.   Evidence of legal access to the property that complies with this
title and the Wildlife Urban Interface code;
      5.   Evidence of wastewater permit approval from the sanitary sewer
authority for the new lot or parcel. (Ord. 13-315, 7-8-2013; amd. Ord. 25-418,
3- 10-2025)
9-3-4: EXEMPTION FROM SUBDIVISION PLAT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Divisions Of Agricultural Land For Agricultural Purposes:
      1.   Subject to subsection a of this section, a lot or parcel resulting
from a division of agricultural land is exempt from the requirements of Utah
Code Annotated section 17-27a-605 and this title, if the lot or parcel:
         a.   Qualifies as land actively devoted to agricultural use with a
reasonable expectation of profit under Utah Code Annotated section 59-2-502;
         b.   Meets the minimum size requirement of applicable land use
ordinances; and
         c.   Is not used and will not be used for any nonagricultural purpose,
with this requirement being documented in a recorded instrument. Any lot or
parcel, designated on a survey for agricultural use, may not be used for
recreational, residential, commercial or industrial purposes unless building
permit, water source and wastewater requirements are met.
      2.   The boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted under this section
shall be graphically illustrated on a record of survey map that, after
receiving the same approvals as are required for a plat under Utah Code
Annotated section 17-27a-604, and this title, shall be recorded with the county
recorder.
      3.   The county will hold lots or parcels exempted under this section to
the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-603 and this title, if
said lots or parcels are used for a nonagricultural purpose.
   B.   Metes And Bounds Descriptions:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection C. of this section, a document
recorded in the county recorder's office that divides property by a metes and
bounds description does not create an approved subdivision allowed by this
title unless the land use authority's certificate of written approval required
by subsection A. of this section is attached to the document.
      2.   The absence of the certificate or written approval required by
subsection A. of this section does not affect the validity of a recorded
document.
      3.   A document which does not meet the requirements of subsection A. of
this section may be corrected by the recording of an affidavit to which the
required certificate or written approval is attached in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated section 57-3-106.
   C.   Minor Subdivisions Under The “HB 1001 Exemption” enacted in the May,
2009 Utah Special Legislative Session:
      1.   As used in this subsection:
         a.   "Divided land" means land that:
            (1)   Is described as the land to be divided in a notice under
subsection C.2.b. of this section; and
            (2)   Has been divided by a minor subdivision.
         b.   "Land to be divided" means land that is proposed to be divided by
a minor subdivision.
         c.   "Minor subdivision" means a division of at least one hundred
(100) contiguous acres of agricultural land in a county of the third, fourth,
fifth or sixth class to create one new lot that, after the division, is
separate from the remainder of the original one hundred (100) or more
contiguous acres of agricultural land.
         d.   "Minor subdivision lot" means a lot created by a minor
subdivision.
      2.   Notwithstanding Utah Code Annotated sections 17-27a-603 and 17-27a-
604, and this title, an owner of at least one hundred (100) contiguous acres of
agricultural land may make a minor subdivision by submitting for recording in
the office of the recorder of the county in which the land to be divided is
located:
         a.   A recordable deed containing the legal description of the minor
subdivision lot; and
         b.   A notice:
            (1)   Indicating that the owner of the land to be divided is making
a minor subdivision;
            (2)   Referring specifically to this section as the authority for
making the minor subdivision; and
            (3)   Containing the legal description of:
               (A)   The land to be divided; and
               (B)   The minor subdivision lot.
      3.   A minor subdivision lot:
         a.   May not be less than one acre in size;
         b.   May not be within one thousand feet (1,000') of another minor
subdivision lot; and
         c.   Is not subject to this title.
      4.   Land to be divided by a minor subdivision may not include divided
land.
      5.   A county:
         a.   May not deny a building permit to an owner of a minor subdivision
lot based on:
            (1)   The lot's status as a minor subdivision lot; or
            (2)   The absence of standards described in subsection C.5.b. of
this section; and
         b.   May, in connection with the issuance of a building permit,
subject a minor subdivision lot to reasonable health, safety and access
standards that the county has established and made public. (1998 Code §
16.12.050; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020; Ord. 25-418, 3-10-2025)
9-3-5: PRIVATE ROADS CHANGED TO COUNTY ROADS:
The owner of a private road connecting a subdivision proposal to an existing
state route, U.S. highway, city street or county B road, who desires to have
said private road become part of the county road system, shall deed the
necessary sixty six foot (66') right of way to the county from the existing
state route, U.S. highway or county B road. This is in addition to signing the
owner's dedication on the subdivision Mylar. Upon the road supervisor finding
that the road has been constructed to the current county minimum road
specifications, and deeded to the county, as ascertained by the county
attorney, then by both the planning commission and the county commissioners
approving the subdivision, the road becomes a county B road. (1998 Code §
16.12.060)
9-3-6: PHASE DEVELOPMENT:
When the planning commission has approved a project master plan for
development, no subsequent phase shall be considered until the prior phase is
fifty one percent (51%) sold and recorded in either a trust or warranty deed,
or a quitclaim deed, with the county recorder, or the developer may furnish
certified copies of real estate purchase contracts to be reviewed and approved
by the county attorney; additionally, all improvements in the current phase
shall be completed. (1998 Code § 16.12.070)
9-3-7: ESTABLISHMENT OF HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION:
   A.   Requirements: In the event that a homeowners' association is required
to take the responsibility of improvement construction and maintenance, the
subdivider must establish a corporation which, among other things, shall
provide for the creation of a homeowners' association, consisting of owners of
property within the development with voting rights. Said association shall be
made responsible for the maintenance of the common property and facilities,
including open space, roadways, water supply, reservoirs, and water
distribution facilities, solid waste disposal facilities, and common domestic
sewerage disposal facilities, and shall levy an equitable assessment on the
owners or occupants within the development, as determined by vote, which
assessment is sufficient to cover the costs of said maintenance.
   B.   Dedication Of Common Areas And Facilities: Notation shall be made on
the final plat, indicating all areas, systems and facilities to be held in
common, and the use to which they shall be put. The substance of said
dedication shall be as follows:
   OWNERS' DEDICATION
Know all men by these present, that we, the undersigned owners of the property
described in the surveyor's certificate herein, and shown on this map, have
caused the same to be subdivided into lots, blocks, streets, association
property, and easements and do hereby dedicate the
                               (specify the area, systems, and facilities to be
owned in common) to                                (Name of Homeowners'
Association)
A nonprofit organization, and said corporation will be the owner of all
streets, walkways, utilities, systems, and common property, and facilities,
included as part of the development, and will be responsible for the
maintenance of the same.
   C.   Taxes On Common Property: Ownership and tax liability of said open
space, and all buildings and structures held in common ownership, shall be
assigned to the association or corporation in a manner acceptable to the county
attorney, and made a part of the conditions of the plan approval.
   D.   Additional Standards: Property development standards, or improvements
in excess of the minimum standards or improvements, as set forth in these
regulations, and in the county zoning ordinance, may be imposed as conditions
of approval, where it is determined by the county planning commission that they
are necessary to ensure proper maintenance of the development.
   E.   Conformance With State Statute: All of the above shall conform with the
provisions of the condominium ownership act, Utah Code Annotated title 57,
chapter 8, as amended, which provides for the payment of common expenses for
the upkeep of common areas and facilities.
   F.   Amendments Require Planning Commission Approval: All items specifically
noted in the approval process cannot be amended without prior approval of the
planning commission. (1998 Code § 16.12.090)
CHAPTER 4
PRELIMINARY PLATS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Preliminary Consultation
9-4-2: Preliminary Plat Filing
9-4-3: Requirements For Preliminary Plat
9-4-4: Staff Review
9-4-5: Approval Or Denial Of Preliminary Plat
9-4-6: Time Limitation
9-4-7: Prior Construction
9-4-1: PRELIMINARY CONSULTATION:
Each person who proposes to subdivide land in the county may consult with the
county director of planning, zoning and community development before preparing
any plats, charts or plans, in order to become familiar with the county
subdivision requirements and general plan for the territory in which the
proposed subdivision lies, and to discuss the proposed plan of development of
the tract. If a pre-application meeting is requested by the subdivider, it
shall be held within fifteen (15) days of the request. At such meeting, the
Planning Director or designee shall provide the applicant with the application
form, the fee schedule, the applicable regulations, a complete list of
standards for the project, preliminary and final plat checklists of items
required with the application and feedback on the proposed plan of development.
(1998 Code § 16.16.010; amd. Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-4-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT FILING:
A preliminary plat shall be prepared in conformance with the standards, rules
and regulations contained herein; and one eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x
17") copy and one twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") copy thereof
(see section
9-4-3 of this chapter) shall be submitted to the planning office for approval
or disapproval. The preliminary plat and accompanying information shall be
submitted to the planning office at least twenty one (21) days prior to a
regularly scheduled planning commission meeting in order to meet public
noticing requirements. (1998 Code § 16.16.020; amd. Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-4-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale suitable to show sufficient
detail, and shall be on twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") paper.
The plat and attached documentation shall show:
   A.   The proposed name of the subdivision (there shall be no duplication of
subdivision names within the unincorporated portion of the county).
   B.   Phased development shall include a master plan showing all future
development in phases and their relationship to each other. In such cases, a
drawing of the prospective future street system of the part submitted shall be
considered in light of adjustments and connections with the future street
system of the larger area. The preliminary plat shall show all property owned
or optioned by the subdivider pertaining to the proposed subdivision at hand.
   C.   Sufficient information to locate accurately the property shown on the
plat. The nearest section corner tie must be shown.
   D.   The names and addresses of the subdivider, the registered surveyor of
the subdivision, and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to
be subdivided shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
   E.   Contours at intervals to show the topography of the land shall be
shown.
   F.   The boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, including total
acreage proposed for subdivision.
   G.   The location, widths and other dimensions of all existing or platted
streets, and other important features such as easements, railroad lines,
watercourses (including irrigation canals and ditches), exceptional topography,
bridges and buildings within or immediately adjacent to the tract of land to be
subdivided.
   H.   Existing power lines, sewerage, storm drains, irrigation canals, water
supply mains and culverts within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto.
   I.   The locations, widths, and construction specifications of proposed
public streets, private streets, utility easements, parks, other open spaces
and lots, with proper labeling of spaces dedicated to the public, or designated
as private streets. This requirement must be accomplished by submittal of a
subdivision improvement plan prepared by a civil engineer licensed to practice
in Utah.
   J.   Buffer zones where noncompatible uses adjoin a proposed subdivision.
   K.   North arrow, and bar scale.
   L.   A review copy of proposed protective covenants, if applicable.
   M.   A statement of the existing zoning.
   N.   Proposed address of each lot.
   O.   Area of watershed, highlighting the resource areas of fresh water,
groundwater, wetlands and salt water, showing the various stormwater best
management practices in a systems approach.
   P.   Plans or written statements regarding the proposed storm drainage
facilities and other proposed special improvements, such as plantings and
parks, and any grading of individual lots.
   Q.   The proposed layout, dimensions, area and number of each lot. Lot area
shall be calculated including the gross acreage and the net acreage (gross
acreage less the abutting road rights of way).
   R.   Established sixty six foot (66') right of way to existing county B
road, state route or U.S. highway.
   S.   Proposed construction, and permanent fencing along appropriate
subdivision boundaries as determined by the planning commission. The fencing
shall be as indicated in the subdivision standards.
   T.   The proposed public offering statement, for subdivisions with ten (10)
or more lots, as outlined in section 9-3-2 of this title, and any other items
as established by the planning commission.
   U.   An approval letter from the sanitary sewer authority (Tri-County health
department) shall be on file with the planning office verifying subdivision
feasibility. The developer shall submit the following to the Tri-County health
department for their approval and approval shall be of record with the planning
office ten (10) working days prior to scheduling the preliminary plat before
the planning commission:
      1.   Wherein on site wastewater systems are proposed, the location of
soil classification and percolation tests are shown proposing such use. Such
location shall be clearly indicated by “o” or a similar symbol.
      2.   Wherein on site wastewater systems are proposed, the results of all
final geotechnical reports and soil and or percolation test results shall be
shown in the box table form on, or attached to, the plat over the signature of
the person qualified to perform such tasks. This may be supplemented by a soils
report from the local soil conservation district identifying the types of soils
within the proposed subdivision area and identifying any soils constraints for
a subdivision.
      3.   The preliminary plat shall contain a statement indicating the
distance from the proposed subdivision boundary to the nearest public sewer
line(s) and state the agency with jurisdiction over said line(s).
      4.   For any subdivision containing lots under forty (40) acres in size,
and if a private water supply is proposed, the applicant shall submit adequate
water rights and proof of water availability, flow and quality, in accordance
with subsection
9-7-3C of this title.
      5.   For any subdivision, if a public water supply is proposed, the
applicant shall obtain a letter of approval from the culinary water authority
(Tri-County health department) stating the water supply meets the safe drinking
water standards, or a letter from the water district ascertaining sufficient
amount of culinary water for the subdivision can be provided and water lines
are being installed to each lot.
   V.   Areas subject to flooding in the event of a 100-year flood, as
determined by an adopted flood study or the best available data.
   W.   An approval letter from the county fire authority which shall specifv
the requirements for the subdivision to comply with the Fire Code and Wildland
Urban Interface Code.
   X.   An approval letter from an authorized canal company representative when
the canal’s centerline is located within one hundred feet (100') of a proposed
subdivision. (Ord. 08-260, 3-17-2008; amd. Ord. 15-341, 3-16-2015; Ord. 20-379,
8-24-2020; Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-4-4: STAFF REVIEW:
   A.   Required; Complete Application: An application for subdivision approval
shall be considered complete upon the submission of all information and
materials as required for a preliminary plat, as contained herein. After
receipt of a complete application, the Planning Director or designee shall
complete their review of the application within fifteen (15) business days.
   B.   Incomplete Application; Disapproval: The lack of information under any
item specified herein, or improper information supplied by the applicant, shall
be cause to find the application incomplete. Requests for additional
information by the Planning Director or designee shall be specific and include
citations to ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the
modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an index of requested
modifications or additions. If an applicant does not submit the requested
additional information within twenty (20) business days, the county shall have
an additional twenty (20) business days to respond to the plans. If the
applicant fails to address a review comment in the response, the review cycle
is not complete and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all
requests for additional information are addressed. The County’ may not require
more than four review cycles and reviews shall be conducted in accordance with
Section 17-27a-604.2 of the Utah Code. Appeals of decisions made by the
Planning Director or designee are to the Duchesne County Planning Commission.
(1998 Code § 16.16.040; amd. Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-4-5: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The preliminary plat shall be reviewed during a public hearing by the planning
commission. The planning commission may continue a public hearing if deemed
necessary, but shall hold no more than one public hearing. If the preliminary
plat application complies with the subdivision ordinance, the planning
commission shall adopt findings to approve the application. If the preliminary
plat application docs not comply with the subdivision ordinance and is
disapproved, the planning commission shall adopt findings for denial. Upon the
planning commission approval, the subdivider is authorized to proceed with the
preparation of the final plat and final construction drawings and
specifications for the improvements required in this title. (1998 Code §
16.16.050; amd. Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-4-6: TIME LIMITATION:
Approval of the preliminary plat by the planning commission shall be effective
for one year after preliminary approval unless, upon application of the
subdivider, the planning commission grants an extension. If the final plat is
not submitted within one year, or within the approved extension period, the
preliminary plat must begin anew. No more than one 12-month extension shall be
considered. However, preliminary approval of a large tract shall be allowed
three (3) years to completion of all phases; provided, that the final plat of
the first phase is submitted and approved within the one year period. Pending
preliminary plat request and plat amendments are also subject to a one year
time limitation. No request for extension shall be granted to pending
preliminary plat or plat amendment request. (1998 Code § 16.16.060)
9-4-7: PRIOR CONSTRUCTION:
No excavation, grading or regrading shall take place on any land, and no
building permits shall be issued, until a proposed subdivision has received
final plat approval from the county commission and the final subdivision plat
has been recorded in the office of the county recorder. (1998 Code § 16.16.070)
CHAPTER 5
FINAL PLATS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Tentative Final Plat Required
9-5-2: Final Plat Required
9-5-3: Requirements For Final Plat
9-5-4: Vacating Or Changing Subdivision Plat, Public Street, Right Of Way Or
Easement
9-5-5: Final Plat Approval
9-5-6: Dedication Of Streets And Other Public Places
9-5-1: TENTATIVE FINAL PLAT REQUIRED:
Prior to the submission of the final plat, the subdivider shall submit one
twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") plat (see section
9-5-3 of this chapter) of the tentative final plat to the planning department,
who shall check the tentative final plat against the requirements and
conditions of approval of the preliminary plat. After receipt of the tentative
final plan, the Planning Director or designee shall complete their review of
the plat within fifteen (15) business days. (1998 Code § 16.20.010; amd. Ord.
24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-5-2: FINAL PLAT REQUIRED:
After compliance with the provisions of section
9-5-1 of this chapter, the subdivider shall submit a final plat, twenty four
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), and one eleven inch by seventeen inch
(11" x 17") copy thereof to the planning department. The complete final plat,
application and accompanying information shall be checked by the planning
department for compliance with this title and title 8 of this code. (1998 Code
§ 16.20.020; amd. Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-5-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall consist of a sheet of tracing Mylar at least three (3) mil
in thickness, approved by the county, to the outside trim dimensions of twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), and the borderline of the plat
shall be drawn in heavy lines, leaving a space of at least one-half inch (½”)
on the bottom, top and right side, with at least one and one-half inches (11/
2") on the left side. The plat shall be so drawn that the top of the sheet
faces either north or west, whichever accommodates the drawing best. All lines,
dimensions and markings shall be made on the Mylar with approved waterproof
black ink. The plat shall be made to a scale suitable to show sufficient
detail, and the workmanship on the finished drawing shall be neat, clean and
readable. The plat shall be signed by all parties duly authorized and required
to sign, and shall contain the following information:
   A.   A subdivision name in bold letters at the top of the Mylar as approved
by the planning director, and a vicinity map locating the subdivision.
   B.   A north point arrow, bar scale of the drawings and date.
   C.   Accurately drawn boundaries showing the proper bearings and dimensions
of all boundary lines of the subdivision. These lines should be slightly
heavier than street and lot lines.
   D.   The widths, lengths, bearings (including basis of bearing), and curve
data on centerlines of proposed streets, and easements; the boundaries, bearing
the dimensions of all portions within the subdivision as intended to be
dedicated to the use of the public; the lines, dimensions, bearings and the
numbers of all lots, blocks and parts consecutively by numbering approved by
the planning commission. Private roads shall also be labeled. Description or
notation of lands within the final plat subject to flooding as determined by an
adopted flood study.
   E.   Parcels of land to be dedicated as public parks or to be permanently
reserved for private common open space shall also be titled “public park” or
“private common open space”, whichever is applicable.
   F.   The standard form approved by the planning commission for all
subdivision plats lettered for the following:
      1.   Legal description of the land for the subdivision.
      2.   Registered professional land surveyor’s “certificate of survey”.
      3.   Owner’s dedication certificate, including any records or other known
interests.
      4.   County planning commission’s certificate of approval.
      5.   Permanent address for each lot.
      6.   County commissioner’s certificate of approval, attested by the
county clerk/auditor.
      7.   County recorder’s certification of recording.
      8.   Established sixty six foot (66') right of way to existing county B
road or state route or U.S. highway.
      9.   An affidavit from the county treasurer showing that all taxes are
current.
      10.   An acknowledgment from the developer or their agent that the state
department of business regulation stating guidelines for the land sales
practices act have been met for subdivisions having ten (10) lots or more.
      11.   A letter from the road supervisor approving the roads within the
subdivision.
      12.   Title report.
      13.   Any other items on the checklist as approved by the planning
commission. (Ord. 08-260, 3-17-2008; amd. Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-5-4: VACATING OR CHANGING SUBDIVISION PLAT, PUBLIC STREET, RIGHT OF WAY OR
EASEMENT:
Proposals to vacate or change a subdivision plat, public street, right of way
or easement shall be processed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated sections
17-27a-608, 17-27a-609 and 17-27a-609.5, and subsequent amendments thereto,
with public notice of such actions to be given as provided by Utah Code
Annotated section 17-27a-208, and subsequent amendments thereto. (Ord. 09-274,
7-13-2009; amd. Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020)
9-5-5: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   Staff Review: Review of the final plat application shall be completed
by the Planning Director or designee within twenty (20) business days of
receipt of a complete final plat application. In this review process, the
County may require, in writing, additional information or modifications to
ensure compliance with county ordinances, and approved standards and
specifications for construction of the public improvements. The County may not
require more than four review cycles, included that associated with review of
the preliminary plat, and reviews shall be conducted in accordance with Section
17-27a-604.2 of the Utah Code. Appeals of decisions made by the Planning
Director or designee are to the Duchesne County Planning Commission.
   The county road supervisor shall check the road engineering requirements of
the drawing, check the road construction drawings, and determine the amount of
the surety to assure construction of the road improvements where necessary.
Disputes related to public improvement or engineering standards shall be
referred to a 3-person appeal panel consisting of an engineer selected by the
applicant, an engineer selected by the County and an impartial third person
agreed to by the applicant and the County. This appeal panel shall be assembled
within ten (10) days of the applicant’s request. The decision of this panel
shall be final.
   After approval and signature by the county road supervisor, the plat and/or
surety agreement shall be submitted to the county attorney for approval.
   B.   Planning Commission Chairperson Signature: Upon approval of the final
plat application by the Planning Director or designee, the final plat map shall
he presented to the Planning Commission Chairperson for signature.
   C.   County Commission Chairperson Signature: After the Planning Commission
Chairperson has signed the final plat, the plat map shall be presented to the
County Commission Chair for signature to formally accept dedications of public
right of wav and maintenance responsibility for new Class B roads.
   D.   Recording:
      1.   No final plats shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder, and no lots included in such final plat shall be sold or exchanged,
unless and until the plat is so approved, signed and accepted.
      2.   Any final plat not so approved and signed, or which shall not be
offered for recording within ninety (90) days after the date of final approval,
unless the time is extended by the county commission, shall not be recorded or
received for recording and shall have no validity whatsoever. (1998 Code §
16.20.050)
   E.   Alterations Prohibited; Penalty: It is unlawful for any person to
change the lines, drawings, lot sizes or shapes, or any other provision of a
plat, after it has been received by any person whose approval is required. Any
plat that is changed in violation of this subsection is void and the subdivider
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, the county may compel the person recording the
plat to withdraw the plat from the recorder’s office or to file a notice, or
the county may itself file a notice, that the recordation of the plat is void.
The county recorder is responsible for recording all subdivision plats. The
subdivider shall be responsible for all recording and associated fees.
   F.   Disk To Accompany Recording: All final plats submitted for recording
shall be accompanied by a disk containing the final plat drawing in an AutoCAD
compatible format, such as DXF, DWG or SHP. (1998 Code § 16.20.050; amd. 2010
Code; Ord. 24-412, 9-16-2024)
9-5-6: DEDICATION OF STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   A plat that is signed, dedicated and acknowledged by each owner of
record and approved according to the procedures specified in this subdivision
ordinance operates, when recorded, as a dedication of all public streets and
other public places and vests the fee of those parcels of land in the county
for the public for the uses and purposes stated or intended on the plat.
   B.   Nonliability Of County: The dedication established by this section does
not impose liability upon the county for public streets and other public places
that are dedicated in this manner but are unimproved unless:
      1.   Adequate financial assurance has been provided in accordance with
this ordinance and
      2.   The county has accepted the dedication. (1998 Code § 6.20.060; amd.
Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Relation To Adjoining Street System
9-6-2: Streets
9-6-3: Lots
9-6-4: Easements
9-6-5: Vistas; Restrictive Covenants
9-6-1: RELATION TO ADJOINING STREET SYSTEM:
The arrangement of streets in a new subdivision, including minor subdivisions,
shall make provisions for the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining
areas (or their protection where adjoining land is not subdivided), insofar as
such may be deemed necessary by the planning commission for the public welfare.
The street arrangement shall not cause unnecessary hardship to owners of
adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek to provide for
convenient access to it. All subdivisions, including minor subdivisions, shall
be connected by an official Class B or Class D road to an existing county B
road or to a state road for access to the subdivision. All subdivision and
minor subdivision roads where county road maintenance is desired, shall have an
access road constructed to B road specifications, accessing each lot. All
subdivision and minor subdivision roads intended for private maintenance shall
be constructed to the standards of the Wildland Urban Interface Code. (1998
Code § 16.24.010; amd. Ord. 25-418, 3-10-2025)
9-6-2: STREETS:
   A.   Specifications And Requirements: All streets shall be twenty four feet
(24') of travel surface with a three foot (3') shoulder on each side within a
sixty six foot (66') wide right of way, except that PUDs, mobile home parks,
and within the residential zones (R-1 and R-1/2), roads may be twenty four feet
(24') of travel surface with a three foot (3') shoulder on each side within a
fifty foot (50') wide right of way. A one-way single lane street shall be
sixteen feet (16') of travel surface with a three foot (3') shoulder on each
side within a fifty foot (50') right of way. All proposed subdivision streets
in the R-1/2 and commercial zones shall be paved and provided with curb, gutter
and sidewalks meeting county standards. All proposed subdivision streets in the
R-1 and industrial zones shall be paved to county standards. All proposed
subdivision streets in the A-2.5 and A-5 zones shall be paved unless a variance
is granted by the county commission (on recommendation of the planning
commission), taking into consideration location, lot size, distance to existing
paving, anticipated traffic flows and undue hardship.
      1.   Minor terminal streets (cul-de-sacs) shall be no longer than the
maximum length established for each zone. Note: Road loops within the
subdivision are exempt; however, all spurs count towards the maximum length.
         a.   Residential zone (R-1/2), one thousand three hundred twenty feet
(1,320');
         b.   Residential rural zone (R-1), two thousand six hundred forty feet
(2,640');
         c.   Two and one-half (21/2) acre agricultural zone (A-2.5), three
thousand nine hundred eighty feet (3,980');
         d.   Agricultural zone (A-5), five thousand two hundred eighty feet
(5,280');
         e.   Agricultural (A-10) zone, no limit, providing there is a one
hundred foot (100') diameter travel surface turnaround bubble every two
thousand six hundred forty feet (2,640') within a one hundred twenty foot
(120') wide right of way easement recorded.
      2.   Where a street is designed to remain only temporarily as a dead end
street, an adequate turning area shall be provided.
      3.   Where a street dead ends into a subsequent phase of the same
subdivision, a temporary, graveled one hundred foot (100') diameter (120 foot
right of way) turnaround and an easement or right of way on the property shall
be required.
   B.   Intersections: The intersection of more than two (2) streets at one
point shall be avoided. Streets shall intersect at a ninety degree (90o) angle,
where practical.
   C.   Standard Street Sections: All proposed streets, whether public or
private, shall conform to the county street cross section standards as now or
hereafter adopted by the county.
   D.   Street Grades: Street grades over a sustained length shall not exceed
the following percentages: on arterial streets eight percent (8%); on collector
streets ten percent (10%). Street grades shall be a minimum of 0.5 percent
except as allowed by the county planning commission. The cross slope of the
street cross section is defined in the standard drawings. Slight variations
from these requirements may be approved by the county planning commission.
   E.   Bridges: Design and construction of new bridges, whether essential for
the overall circulation plan of the county or required only to serve a
subdivision, shall be approved in advance by the road supervisor.
   F.   Reimbursement Agreement: In the situation where the construction of a
subdivision street would be of financial benefit to subsequent subdividers,
enabling access to a subdivision without road construction and dedication, the
original subdivider may draft a protection reimbursement agreement with the
county, subject to and in accordance with section
9-2-3 of this title.
   G.   Excavations And Fills: Subdivision development adjacent to a natural
drainage channel, or within any marsh or wetlands which will result in any
discharge of excavated fill materials, may require obtaining a permit from the
U.S. army corps of engineers prior to the issuance of local permits for the
deposition of fill material into any wetland or stream channel. This
determination shall be made as part of the preliminary plat staff review.
   H.   Private Roads: In a subdivision where a homeowners' association will be
responsible for road construction and maintenance, the minimum requirement for
road construction shall be twenty four foot (24') road travel surface with a
three foot (3') shoulder on each side within a sixty six foot (66') right of
way. Said road shall be the same specifications as a county B road.
   I.   Culvert Requirements: The minimum requirement for culverts on road
construction is fifteen inches (15") in diameter by thirty feet (30') in
length.
   J.   Street Signs: Street or road signs, designed to a standard acceptable
to the county public works department, shall be installed at all street or road
intersections at the expense of the developer. (1998 Code § 16.24.020)
9-6-3: LOTS:
   A.   Arrangement And Design: The lot arrangement and design shall be such
that the lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, and
be properly related to topography and to existing and probable future
utilities, rights of way, and other requirements.
   B.   Frontage: Each lot shall have frontage on a public street dedicated by
the subdivision plat, or an existing publicly dedicated street which has not
become public by the right of use and is at least twenty four feet (24') wide
travel surface with three foot (3') shoulders on each side.
   C.   Corner Lots: Buildings constructed on corner lots shall comply with the
minimum setback for both streets, as provided in the county zoning ordinance.
   D.   Side Lines: Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles
to the street line, or radial to the street line.
   E.   Remnants: Remnants of lots less than the minimum size required by the
zoning ordinance after the subdividing of a larger tract shall be added to
adjacent lots rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels. In no event
shall the subdivision of land create a lot which does not conform to the zoning
ordinance requirements of the county.
   F.   Length Ratio: Lots shall not exceed a ratio of five to one (5:1) length
to front. This standard is waived, if the lot frontage width is one thirty-
second (1/32) of the section width or greater.
   G.   Prohibited Division Of Lots: No lot shall be bisected by a road or
stream in subdivisions with lot size less than twenty (20) acres minimum. (Ord.
08-260, 3-17-2008)
9-6-4: EASEMENTS:
Easements for culinary water, sewerage, power, irrigation water, stormwater
drainage and other utilities shall be provided by the subdivider and designated
on the plat as required to accommodate the utility systems in the subdivision.
Where natural drainage channels, interceptor systems, or flood zones cross the
subdivision, the subdivider must obtain the necessary permits to modify such
drainage facilities, and shall designate the channels, systems or flood zones,
and any associated restrictions, on the plat. (1998 Code § 16.24.040)
9-6-5: VISTAS; RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS:
Any subdivision to take place in the county within direct sight from any
federal or state highway, or county road, or any other location that the
planning commission believes would have significant impact by reason of the
public view, shall, prior to acceptance of the preliminary plat from the
planning commission, have drafted ample restrictive covenants to protect the
view. If aforesaid covenants are not ample, in the opinion of the planning
commission, to protect the scenic vistas existing in the proposed area, the
planning commission may deny said subdivision proposal. Aforesaid denial
postpones preliminary plat approval until such time as acceptable covenants are
drafted. At such time as restrictive covenants are drafted to protect the
public vista in the proposed subdivision, the planning commission may approve
such subdivision approval. At the time the subdivider can present evidence that
the accepted covenants are binding upon the proposed property, the planning
commission may proceed with final plat approval. (1998 Code § 16.24.050)
CHAPTER 7
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Application Of Improvements Required
9-7-2: Improvements Made Prior To Recording Final Plat
9-7-3: Improvements Required
9-7-4: Water Users' Association Compliance
9-7-5: Improvement Completion Assurance And Improvement Warranty
9-7-1: APPLICATION OF IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
This chapter applies to all property owners located in any subdivision, whether
standard or minor. Its provisions shall apply to all transferees, assignees or
purchasers. (1998 Code § 16.28.010)
9-7-2: IMPROVEMENTS MADE PRIOR TO RECORDING FINAL PLAT:
The improvements required by this title and title 8 of this code shall be
constructed, installed and maintained by the subdivider until acceptance by the
county prior to recording the final plat in the office of the county recorder,
unless the construction, installation and maintenance is guaranteed in the
manner provided in section
9-7-5 of this chapter. Improvements shall not be installed or constructed until
their location and specifications have been approved by the county road
supervisor. (1998 Code § 16.28.020)
9-7-3: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
The owner of any land in or platted as a subdivision shall install the
following improvements in compliance with the specifications contained in the
technical specifications and standard drawings:
   A.   Street Grading And Surfacing:
      1.   All streets shall be surfaced, graded and maintained in accordance
with the standards and specifications of the county.
      2.   No developer or agent shall sell, exchange or offer for sale, any
subdivided lot in the proposed development, nor shall approval be given until
one of the following conditions are met:
         a.   All roads into and within a subdivision are completed to county B
road specifications, including the standards of section
9-6-2 of this title (to and through) and approved by the county road
supervisor.
         b.   If existing B roads accessing the proposed development are not up
to the present county minimum standards, a need for road improvement is being
created by the developer, therefore, if the road is not on the county road
improvement schedule, the developer can either upgrade the county road or any
other road to county specifications accessing the site, or wait for the county
to improve the existing B road as per their maintenance schedule.
      3.   A cost estimate of said road construction, approved by the county
road supervisor, shall be submitted. A bond or other surety acceptable to the
county, as outlined in section
9-7-5 of this chapter, shall be in place to cover at least one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the costs of road construction, thereby guaranteeing the
installation of said roads.
   B.   Lot Sizes Forty Acres Or Larger: All subdivisions with lot sizes forty
(40) acres or larger shall have a potable water source, which may include
hauled water and cistern storage, as approved by the culinary water authority.
   C.   Lot Sizes Less Than Forty Acres: All subdivisions, including minor
subdivisions, with lot sizes less than forty (40) acres shall have an approved
water source and/or an approved water system. The developer/subdivider shall
provide and comply with the following:
      1.   Evidence that the applicant has the legal right to use water under a
valid water right whether owned by the applicant or by contract, or other type
of legal documentation, allowing the applicant to use water as proposed. The
water rights must be sufficient to meet the anticipated yearly demand and peak
day demand of the system and be approved by the Utah Division of Water Rights.
      2.   Evidence that wells proposed as water sources can be adequately
isolated from all present or potential sources of pollution with a one hundred
foot (100') radius well protection zone depicted, on each lot proposed to be
served by a private water well, on the subdivision plat.
      3.   If individual wells are proposed as sources of supply for each
subdivision or minor subdivision lot, or if nonpublic water supply wells are
proposed to serve several lots, a statement from the culinary water authorities
must be submitted indicating the feasibility of obtaining groundwater suitable
in quantity and quality to serve potential residences throughout the
subdivision or minor subdivision. The Tri-County Health Department and the NE
Region office of the Utah Division of Water Rights serve as the culinary water
authorities in this case. If either of the culinary water authorities cannot
verify that sufficient water (via culinary connections, water wells, spring
development or hauled water) exists to serve all new lots or parcels in a
proposed subdivision or minor subdivision, the minimum lot size in such
subdivisions is forty (40) acres, regardless of the designated zoning district.
      4.   If individual or nonpublic springs are proposed as sources of supply
for a single or several subdivision lots, the quantity, quality and legal right
for each source must be determined and proven in the same manner as required
for public water systems, and the information must be submitted for review.
Subdivision lots must be large enough to permit required separation of culinary
springs from present and potential pollution, with the subdivision or minor
subdivision plat providing a spring protection zone approved by the TriCounty
Health Department and the Utah Department of Environmental Quality.
      5.   Water hauling is allowed pursuant to the TriCounty Health Department
Water Hauling Rule.
   D.   Public Water Supply System: For subdivisions with proposed public water
supply system, the subdivider shall install water lines to make the water
supply available to each lot within the subdivision, including laterals to the
property line of each lot. The location of the water mains shall be approved by
the county road supervisor. Subdivision water lines shall be a minimum of eight
inches (8") in diameter and service laterals shall be a minimum of three-
fourths inch (3/4") in diameter. All water lines must be extended across the
entire frontage of all existing streets and to the boundary of the subdivision
on all existing or proposed streets (where applicable). All systems shall be
installed to meet the minimum standard designs for drinking water.
   E.   Minimum Standards For Water Systems: Water systems shall be designed in
compliance with this code and Utah administrative rule R309-550.
      1.   Approval For Plans And Specifications For Public Water Supply
Projects:
         a.   The executive secretary with the state division of drinking water
must approve, in writing, all engineering plans and specifications for public
drinking water projects prior to construction.
         b.   Operating permits shall be obtained by the public water system
prior to placing any public drinking water facility into operation as required
in R309-500-9 division of drinking water program.
      2.   Water Main Design: The distribution system shall be designed to psi
(at ground level) at all points of connection, under all conditions of flow,
but especially during peak day flow conditions, including fire flows as
required in R309-500-9 division of drinking water program.
      3.   Source Sizing, Peak Day Demand And Average Yearly Demand: Sources
shall legally and physically meet water demands under two (2) separate
conditions. First they shall meet the anticipated water demand on the day of
highest water consumption. This is referred to as the peak day demand. Second,
they shall also be able to provide one year's supply of water, the average
yearly demand.
      4.   Minimum Water Main Size: For water mains not connected to fire
hydrants, the minimum line size shall be four inch (4") diameter. Minimum water
main size serving a fire hydrant lateral shall be eight inch (8") diameter.
      5.   Fire Protection:
         a.   The design of the distribution system shall be consistent with
the current fire code adopted by the county. As specified in this code, minimum
fire flow requirements are:
            (1)   One thousand (1,000) gpm for one- and two-family dwellings
with an area of less than three thousand six hundred (3,600) square feet.
            (2)   One thousand five hundred (1,500) gpm or greater for all
other buildings.
         b.   Fire hydrants shall be installed. Such fire hydrants shall be of
a type, size and number as adopted by the county fire marshal and installed in
such locations as approved by the county fire marshal. A fire hydrant shall
also be placed at the end of every cul-de-sac in which the water line dead ends
(where applicable). Spacing between fire hydrants shall be no greater than one
thousand feet (1,000').
         c.   An exception to the fire protection requirements of subsections
E5a and E5b of this section may be granted if a suitable statement is received
by the local fire protection authority.
         d.   Water mains not designed to carry fire flows shall not have fire
hydrants connected to them.
         e.   The design engineer shall verify that the pipe network design
permits fire flows to be met at representative locations while a minimum
pressure of twenty (20) psi is maintained at all times and at all points in the
distribution system. (1998 Code § 16.28.030; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Sewerage Collection: For subdivisions and minor subdivisions with
proposed sewage collection, the subdivider shall connect to the sanitary
sewerage and provide adequate lateral lines to the property line of each lot.
Such sewerage connections and subdivision sewerage systems shall comply with
the regulations and specifications of, and shall be approved by, the sanitary
sewer authority (Tri-County health department). Subdivision sewerage lines
shall be a minimum of eight inches (8") in diameter, and one 4-inch diameter
line shall be installed for each residential unit. All sewerage lines must be
extended across the entire frontage of all existing streets and to the boundary
of the subdivision of all existing or proposed streets (where applicable). A
public sewage collection system shall be required in all cases where:
      1.   On site wastewater disposal is deemed unfeasible by the sanitary
sewer authority or a licensed geotechnical engineer or hydrogeologist, if such
expertise is deemed necessary by the county; or
      2.   Lot sizes are proposed to be less than one net acre; or
      3.   The subdivision or minor subdivision boundary is located within a
distance of one hundred fifty feet (150') multiplied by the number of proposed
lots, in all anticipated phases of the subdivision, from an existing public
sanitary sewer line.
A variance to the above standards may be requested from the land use authority.
In considering such a variance, the land use authority shall consider factors
such as natural features, annexation policies and the willingness of the agency
with jurisdiction over the sewer system to accept the subdivision for service.
(Ord. 15-341, 3-16-2015)
   G.   Stormwater: The subdivider shall properly dispose of stormwater. If
easements are required across abutting property to permit drainage of the
subdivision, it shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to acquire such
easements. The minimum size storm drain shall be fifteen inches (15"), where
applicable. For subdivisions other than minor subdivisions, an engineer's
report shall be required.
   H.   Survey Monuments: Subdivisions shall be surveyed according to the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated and recorded with the county surveyor. Survey
monuments shall be accurately set and established at angle positions on the
subdivision boundary.
      1.   Each lot corner shall be staked with a minimum monument of a one-
half inch by eighteen inch (1/2" x 18") iron rod, or permanently placed plug
where applicable.
      2.   Any public land survey corners used shall be indicated on the plat.
The plat shall give the location and description of each public land survey
corner used, for the survey of the subdivision.
      3.   Staking of all lots shall be completed immediately following the
approval of the subdivision plat by the planning commission. All permanent
survey monuments shall remain in place, or be reset at the subdivider's
expense, and all subdivision plats shall be tied to a section corner of record.
      4.   Minor corrections may be performed to correct survey errors if the
following criteria are met:
         a.   Such correction shall not violate the zoning established in the
area.
         b.   Lots shall not be added or subtracted from the plat.
         c.   The existing general configuration of lots does not change.
   I.   Potable And Nonpotable Water Systems: It is illegal for any person to
connect together a culinary water system and a nonpotable water system by any
method.
   J.   Fencing Of Subdivisions: A fencing of material acceptable to the
planning commission shall be installed to a height acceptable to the planning
commission, along all boundaries with the properties adjacent to the
subdivision where adjacent uses are found to be noncompatible by the planning
commission.
   K.   Public Offering Statement: Any subdivision, with the exception of a
minor subdivision, shall be required to provide a complete public offering
statement as outlined in section
9-3-2 of this title.
   L.   Title Report: A complete title report shall be provided on all
subdivisions. Said reports shall be submitted to the county planning office at
the time of final plat submission.
   M.   Special Road Improvement: Landowners desiring road improvements beyond
minimum requirements specified herein shall create special service and/or
improvement districts within their subdivision per Utah Code Annotated. (1998
Code § 16.28.030; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 25-418, 3-10-2025)
9-7-4: WATER USERS' ASSOCIATION COMPLIANCE:
Subdividers are required to declare any irrigation company involved on all
subdivision proposals and furnish a development plan (if an irrigation company
is involved) to cover the following:
   A.   Identifying the delivery system designed as part of the development.
   B.   The subdivider and/or homeowners' association are responsible for
receiving and delivery of any water resources being provided by any irrigation
company. (1998 Code § 16.28.040)
9-7-5: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE AND IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY:
In lieu of actual construction and completion by the subdivider and acceptance
by the planning commission of the improvements required by this title and title
8 of this code, and before approval of the final plat by the county
commissioners, the subdivider shall guarantee the installation and construction
of the required improvements within one year from the date of approval of the
final plat by providing the county with an improvement completion assurance
from the options below and guarantee that the improvements shall be free from
defective material or workmanship, for an improvement warranty period of one
year from the date of completion by one or more of the following methods:
   A.   Escrow Account:
      1.   The subdivider may deposit with any insurance company, bank or
savings and loan institution in an escrow account an improvement completion
assurance in an amount equal to at least one hundred percent (100%) of the
costs of the improvements required by this title and title 8 of this code, not
previously accepted by the county. The costs of the improvements not accepted
and not installed or constructed shall be determined by an engineer or licensed
contractor and reviewed by the county road supervisor. The escrow agreement
shall be subject to approval by the county attorney and shall be signed by the
subdivider, the county and the escrow holder, and shall contain substantially
the following:
   AGREEMENT
The undersigned hereby promises and warrants that it has in an escrow account
for the benefit of Duchesne County, the sum of $          , which represents at
least 100% of the estimated costs of the improvements not accepted by Duchesne
County and not constructed or installed by the developer of the subdivision.
The undersigned hereby agrees that the foregoing sum of money shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of paying the costs of materials, and construction
and installation of the improvements required by the Duchesne County
subdivision ordinance. The undersigned further agrees that the money held in
this escrow account shall be paid out to the contractors installing and
constructing the required improvements only upon an order executed by an
authorized officer of Duchesne County and the subdivider.
The subdivider shall not withdraw from the escrow account any amount in excess
of 100% of the estimated cost of the improvements, but shall pay from other
sources any costs for such improvements which exceed 100% of the costs
estimated by the engineer or licensed contractor and approved by the county
road supervisor.
A sum equal to 10% of the estimated costs of improvements shall remain with the
escrow holder for a period of one year after all improvements are made and
completed. If, after one year, all or any of the required improvements are not
installed, constructed and maintained according to the standards required by
the Duchesne County and the subdivision ordinance of the same, Duchesne County
shall notify in writing the subdivider that the defects must be corrected. If
the defects are not corrected within ninety (90) days, Duchesne County may, but
shall not be required to, correct the defects and charge to the escrow holder
the costs of correcting the defects.
The escrow holder shall, on receiving reasonable proof from Duchesne County of
the defect and that Duchesne County has incurred the cost of correcting the
defect, pay to Duchesne County from the escrow account the cost of correcting
the defect, and the escrow holder shall be held harmless by the parties by
reason of payment to Duchesne County.
If, after one year from the date Duchesne County accepts the improvements
required by its subdivision ordinance, the required improvements remain
substantially free from latent defects, Duchesne County shall certify such fact
to the escrow holder, and the escrow holder shall release to the subdivider any
money still held in the escrow account, and the escrow holder shall be
discharged of its obligation to Duchesne County.
   (Authorized Signature)
      2.   The escrow agreement may contain such additional provisions as the
parties deem necessary.
   B.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit:
      1.   The subdivider may file with the county an irrevocable letter of
credit from a duly chartered state or national bank or savings and loan
institution to serve as improvement completion assurance, which letter shall
contain provisions substantially similar to that required in the escrow
agreement. The form of the irrevocable letter of credit shall be substantially
as follows:
   Name of Bank
   Address
   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit
To: Duchesne County Date:
Letter of Credit No.:
Gentlemen:
We hereby establish our irrevocable letter of credit in your favor for the
account of (insert name of subdivider, subdivider's address) up to the
aggregate amount of $ (insert amount available by your draft(s)) drawn on sight
on (insert name of bank, address of bank), accompanied by (here insert terms
which give Duchesne County control over payments). The terms would ordinarily
read:
A statement signed by the officer of Duchesne County dated not later than
(insert estimated completion date plus a couple of months' leeway) as follows:
We certify that the on site improvements related to the (insert name of
subdivision) have not been completed in accordance with county ordinances and
that this drawing represents the amount necessary to complete those on site
improvements. We hereby agree with drawers, endorsers and bona fide holders
that all drafts under and in compliance with the terms of this credit will be
duly honored upon presentation and delivery of documents as specified to the
drawee or drawn and presented for negotiation on or before (insert completion
date as set forth) at our bank.
   Yours very truly,
Authorized Bank Officer
      2.   Upon completion and written acceptance of the improvements
guaranteed by the irrevocable letter of credit, the county shall release its
interest in ninety percent (90%) of the improvement completion assurance, with
the remaining ten percent (10%) held as an improvement warranty for one year.
One year after acceptance, if the improvements continue to meet county
standards, as determined by the county public works department, the county will
release its interest in the ten percent (10%) improvement warranty. Upon
completion and written acceptance of the improvements, the county shall release
its interests in the entire letter of credit.
   C.   Bond: The subdivider may furnish and file with the county planner a
bond with corporate surety in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of
the cost of the improvements not previously installed, as estimated by an
engineer or licensed contractor and approved by the county road supervisor, to
assure the installation and construction of such improvements within twelve
(12) months immediately following the approval of the subdivision plat by the
commissioners, which bond shall be approved by the commissioners and county
attorney. Upon completion and written acceptance of the improvements,
guaranteed by the bond, the county shall release its interest in ninety percent
(90%) of the bond, with the remaining ten percent (10%) held for one year. One
year after acceptance, if the improvements continue to meet county standards,
as determined by the county public works department, the county will release
its interest in the ten percent (10%) bond. Upon completion and written
acceptance of the improvements, the county shall release its interests in the
entire bond.
   D.   Improvement Guarantee Required: If the subdivision improvements are
completed and accepted prior to final plat approval, an improvement warranty of
ten percent (10%) of the actual improvement construction cost shall be
deposited with the county. One year after acceptance, if the improvements
continue to meet county standards as determined by the county public works
department, the county will release its interest in the ten percent (10%)
improvement warranty.
   E.   Extension Of Warranty Period: Notwithstanding the above, if the county
determines, for good cause, that a one year improvement warranty period would
be inadequate to protect the public health, safety and welfare, such warranty
period may be extended up to one additional year if the county has substantial
evidence on record or prior poor performance by the applicant or that the area
upon which the improvements will be constructed contains suspect soil and the
county has not otherwise required the applicant to mitigate the suspect soil.
   F.   Partial Release Of Improvement Completion Assurance: Notwithstanding
the above, the county may authorize partial release of the improvement
completion assurance as portions of the required improvements are completed and
accepted by the county or other approval authority.
   G.   In accordance with Utah Code, Duchesne County does not require an
applicant to provide improvement completion assurance for:
      1.   Landscaping or an infrastructure improvement that the county has
previously inspected and accepted:
      2.   Infrastructure improvements that are private or are not required to
meet the building code, fire code, flood or storm water management provisions,
street and access requirements, or other essential necessary public safety
improvements adopted in a land use regulation. (Ord. 13-315, 7-8-2013; amd.
Ord. 20-379, 8-24-2020)
