CITY CODE
of
ELK RIDGE CITY, UTAH
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 25-02, passed 3-11-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Elk Ridge City, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-02, passed March 11, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
   American Legal Publishing
   Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 03-10-28-6
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE MUNICIPAL CODE FOR THE CITY OF ELK RIDGE, UTAH.
   WHEREAS, the City of Elk Ridge has a Municipal Code consisting of existing
provisions and numerous amending ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the City has commissioned Sterling Codifiers, Inc. to conduct a
revision of the existing Municipal Code for the purpose of revision and
consolidation; and
   WHEREAS, Sterling Codifiers, Inc. has prepared a revised and consolidated
Municipal Code for the City; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Elk Ridge desires to adopt the municipal code prepared
by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. and declare said Code to be the effective Municipal
Code for the City of Elk Ridge; and
   WHEREAS, the notice of Public Hearing, which was published by the City
Council contains specific advance notice that the proposed ordinance, as set
forth herein, would be considered and that copies thereof were available for
inspection in the city offices; and
   WHEREAS, the Elk Ridge City Council has determined that the adoption of this
ordinance is necessary for the general welfare of the City and its inhabitants;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF ELK RIDGE CITY, UTAH,
AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION I.
Part 1. From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City Code of
the City of Elk Ridge, Utah, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the governing body of the City shall be accepted
in all courts without question as the official code and law of the City as
enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
Part 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Recorder, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open for business.
Part 3. All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City Code
shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provisions and the fact
that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing body
shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
Part 4. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or
amend by addition or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to insert
or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in
any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be misrepresented
thereby.
Part 5. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Part 6. This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded and
shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
SECTION II. Codification, Inclusion in the Code, and Scrivener's Errors
It is the intent of the City Council that the provisions of this ordinance be
made part of the City Code as adopted, that sections of this ordinance may be
re-numbered or re-lettered, that the word ordinance may be changed to section,
chapter, or other such appropriate word or phase in order to accomplish such
intent regardless of whether such inclusion in a code is accomplished, sections
of the ordinance may be re-numbered or re-lettered. Typographical errors which
do not affect the intent of this ordinance may be authorized by the City
without need of public hearing by its filing a corrected or re-codified copy of
the same with the City Recorder.
SECTION III. Severability
If any section, phrase, sentence, or portion of this ordinance is for any
reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision,
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
thereof.
SECTION IV. Effective Date
The City Recorder shall deposit a copy of this ordinance in the official
records of the City on  November 17 , 2003, and before 5:00 p.m. on that same
day, shall place a copy of this ordinance in three places within the City. This
ordinance shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on  November 28, 2003.
Passed and duly adopted this  28  day of  October , 2003.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1522.gif]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Incorporation Of Statutes
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Elk Ridge City. This
city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ELK RIDGE CITY CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the city recorder. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the city recorder when directed so to do by
order of the city council. (2003 Code)
1-1-5: INCORPORATION OF STATUTES:
Utah Code Annotated, as amended, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, published by Lexis
Law Publishing, is hereby adopted and by this reference is made a part of this
code with the force and effect as though set out herein in full. One copy has
been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the city
recorder. (Ord. 99-9-28-9, 9-28-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this city code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this city code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by
virtue of the preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. The use of any
verb in the present tense shall include the future and past tense when
applicable.
   B.   All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to
the common use and understanding of the language; the technical words and
phrases and such other words and phrases as may have acquired a particular
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such particular
meaning.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license or permit is required by any ordinance of the
city.
CITY: The city of Elk Ridge City, Utah County, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Elk
Ridge City, Utah.
CITY RECORDER: The individual appointed to act as the city recorder of the
city.
CODE: The city code of Elk Ridge City, Utah.
COUNTY: Utah County, Utah.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Elk Ridge
City".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation, or fees charged for services.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
HIGHWAY; ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road" and "state road".
INDIVIDUAL: A human being.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation. The term "license" includes any certificate, permit or license
issued by the city.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS OR OFFICIALS: Any elected or appointed person employed by the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Whenever reference is made in
this code to a city officer or official by title only, this shall be construed
as though followed by the words "of Elk Ridge City".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an
individual person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes ('manufactured
homes'), walls fences, billboards, and poster panels.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TIME COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any
ordinance or in any resolution or order of the city, when expressed in days,
shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last day,
except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day shall
be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a Sunday or
legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal holidays
shall be excluded.
VACANT LAND OR VACANT LOT: Land that is unoccupied and unused, and /or has no
buildings on it.
WEEK: Shall be construed to mean any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer", as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
(2003 Code) (Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Specified: The city council may impose a minimum criminal penalty
for the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the
maximum class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or
by a term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment; or prosecute other misdemeanors as permitted by state statute.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the city
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   The municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance, except as authorized
in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-703.5.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the city, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this city has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this city shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this city when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this city, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this city which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 76-3-104.
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-5-2: Membership; Terms
1-5-3: Mayor As Member Of City Council
1-5-4: Meetings; Procedure And Conduct
1-5-5: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedure
1-5-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a city office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the city for at least three hundred sixty
five (365) days immediately before the date of the election; and
      2.   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
   B.   Annexed Areas: A person living in an area annexed to the city meets the
residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the area
annexed to the city for at least three hundred sixty five (365) days before the
date of the election.
   C.   Residency Requirements:
      1.   Each elected officer of the city shall maintain residency within the
boundaries of the city during the officer's term of office.
      2.   If an elected officer of the city establishes a principal place of
residence as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-2-105 outside the city
during the officer's term of office, the office is automatically vacant.
   D.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to city office shall be a
registered voter in the city.
   E.   Continuous Absence From City: If an elected city officer is absent from
the city any time during his term of office for a continuous period of more
than sixty (60) days without the consent of the city council, the city office
is automatically vacant. (2003 Code)
1-5-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.   Composition: The governing body shall be a council of six (6) persons,
one of whom shall be the mayor and the remaining five (5) shall be council
members.
   B.   Election; Terms: The election and terms of office shall be as follows:
      1.   The offices of mayor and two (2) council members shall be filled in
municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      2.   The offices of the other three (3) council members shall be filled
in municipal elections held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years.
These offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
   C.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or city council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (2003 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Administration Vested In Mayor: The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the mayor.
   B.   Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The mayor shall be the
chairperson and preside at the meetings of the city council. In the absence of
the mayor or because of his inability or refusal to act, the city council may
elect a member of the city council to preside over the meeting as mayor pro
tempore, who shall have all the powers and duties of the mayor during his
absence or disability. The election of a mayor pro tempore shall be entered in
the minutes of the meeting.
   C.   Voting: The mayor shall not vote, except in the case of a tie vote of
the city council, or in the appointment or dismissal of a city manager under
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-830.
   D.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The mayor is the chief executive officer to whom all employees of
the city shall report.
      2.   The mayor shall:
         a.   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the city;
         b.   Remit fines and forfeitures;
         c.   Report remittances under subsection D2b of this section to the
city council at its next regular session;
         d.   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
         e.   Ensure that all the laws, ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
         f.   Report to the city council the condition of the city and
recommend for city council consideration any measures that the mayor considers
to be in the best interests of the city;
         g.   When necessary, call on the residents of the city over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city;
         h.   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the city council, persons
to fill city offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the city; and
         i.   Report to the city council any release granted under subsection
D3b of this section.
      3.   The mayor may:
         a.   At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official books,
papers, records or documents of the city or of any officer, employee or agent
of the city; and
         b.   Release any person imprisoned for violation of any city
ordinance.
   E.   No Veto Power: The mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the
city council, unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (2003 Code)
1-5-4: MEETINGS 1 ; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall conduct two (2) regular
meetings, which shall be held on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month,
at the Elk Ridge City office, 80 East Park Drive, Elk Ridge, Utah, which
meeting shall begin promptly at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. If the meeting date
is a national or state holiday, then such meeting shall be held at the same
time and place above described on the day next following that which is not a
legal holiday. The city council may by ordinance provide for a different time
and place for holding regular meetings of the city council. (Ord. 87-10-20-1,
10-20-1987, eff. 11-1-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   If at any time the business of the city requires a special meeting
of the city council, such meeting may be ordered by the mayor or any two (2)
members of the city council. The order shall be entered in the minutes of the
city council. The order shall provide at least three (3) hours' notice of the
special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the city recorder on each
member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or by
leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal appearance by a
council member at any specially called meeting constitutes a waiver of the
notice required in this subsection.
      2.   The written notice required in subsection B1 of this section shall
state the time and place the special meeting is to be held and the purpose for
which the special meeting is being called.
   C.   Open Meetings; Exceptions: Every meeting is open to the public, unless
closed pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-4 and 52-4-5.
   D.   Quorum:
      1.   Defined: The number of members of the city council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more.
      2.   Necessary: No action of the city council shall be official or of any
effect, except when a quorum of the members are present. Fewer than a quorum
may adjourn from time to time.
   E.   Voting:
      1.   How Vote Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions and any action which would create a liability against
the city and in any other case at the request of any member of the city council
by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. The city recorder shall call
the roll in alphabetical order. Every resolution or ordinance shall be in
writing before the vote is taken.
      2.   Minimum Vote Required: The minimum number of votes required to pass
any ordinance, resolution or to take any action by the city council, unless
otherwise prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the members of the quorum,
but shall never be less than three (3).
         a.   Any ordinance, resolution or motion of the city council having
fewer favorable votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and
invalid, except that a meeting may be adjourned to a specific time by a
majority vote of the city council even though such majority vote is less than
that required herein.
         b.   A majority of the members of the city council, regardless of
number, may fill any vacancy in the city council.
      3.   Reconsideration: Any action taken by the city council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
of the city council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than
the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
(2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 12 of this title.
1-5-5: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The city council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance, or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by Elk Ridge City:
";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
city ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or mayor pro tempore to sign
the ordinance; and
      9.   A place for the city recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the city.
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
city council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1) through (4). Ordinances which do not have an
effective date shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication or
posting, or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council, whichever
is sooner.
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances: All ordinances, except those
enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-706 through 10-3-710,
before taking effect shall be deposited in the office of the city recorder and
a short summary of the ordinance published at least once in a newspaper
published within the city, or if there is no newspaper published therein, then
by posting complete copies in three (3) public places within the city. Any
ordinance, code or book, other than the state code, relating to building or
safety standards, city functions, administration, control or regulations, may
be adopted and shall take effect without further publication or posting, if
reference is made to the code or book and at least three (3) copies have been
filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the city recorder
prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the city council. Any state law
relating to building or safety standards, city functions, administration,
control or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
publication or posting if reference is made to the state code. The ordinance
adopting the code or book shall be published in the manner provided in this
section.
   E.   Recording; Numbering; Certification Of Passage: The city recorder shall
record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all ordinances passed by
the city council. The city recorder shall give each ordinance a number, if the
city council has not already so done. Immediately following each ordinance, or
codification of ordinances, the city recorder shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and the date of publication or posting,
as required. The record and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be
prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and publication or posting of the
ordinance or codification.
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the city council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for city services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the city property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the city council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect upon passage or at a later
date as the city council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2003 Code)
ARTICLE A. REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Established
1-5A-2: Powers And Duties
1-5A-1: ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 17B-4-101 et seq.,
there is hereby established a redevelopment agency in and for the city to be
known as the Elk Ridge City redevelopment agency. The city council, consisting
of the mayor and all other members of the city council, is hereby designated as
the governing body of the redevelopment agency of the city. The mayor shall be
the ex officio chairperson of the agency. (Ord. 91-3-26-10, 3-26-1991)
1-5A-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The redevelopment agency is authorized to enter into agreements generally in
connection with redevelopment matters and shall have the power to transact the
business of such agency and to exercise all the powers, rights, duties and
privileges set forth in the Utah neighborhood development act as provided in
Utah Code Annotated section 17B-4-101 et seq., and as the same may from time to
time be amended. (Ord. 91-3-26-10, 3-26-1991)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-6-2: City Recorder And City Treasurer
1-6-3: Bonds Of Officers
1-6-4: Oath Of Office
1-6-5: Compensation
1-6-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Offices Created By Council: The city council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the city and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices.
   B.   Mayor To Appoint And Fill Vacancies: The mayor, with the advice and
consent of the city council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   C.   Continuation In Office: All appointed officers shall continue in office
until their successors are appointed and qualified. (2003 Code)
1-6-2: CITY RECORDER AND CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a city
election, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall
appoint a qualified person to each of the offices of city recorder and city
treasurer.
   B.   Ex Officio Auditor: The city recorder is ex officio city auditor and
shall perform the duties of that office. (2003 Code)
1-6-3: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Approval Of Bonds: The bonds of the council members shall be approved
by the mayor and the bond of the mayor shall be approved by the city council at
the first meeting of the city council in January following a city election.
   B.   Premium Paid By City: The premium charged by a corporate surety for any
bond required by the city shall be paid by the city.
   C.   Additional Bonds; Filing: The city council may at any time require
further and additional bonds of any or all officers elected or appointed. All
bonds given by the officers, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be
filed with the city recorder, except that the bond of the city recorder shall
be filed with the city treasurer. (2003 Code)
1-6-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office. The form of oath
shall be as provided in the Utah constitution article IV, section 10.
   B.   Filing: The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the city recorder. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is
practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering
on their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the city recorder.
   C.   Acts Of Officials Not Voided: No official act of any city officer shall
be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of office. (2003
Code)
1-6-5: COMPENSATION:
The salaries, benefits and conditions of employment for the officers and
employees of this city shall be as established by ordinance of the city
council. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conduct
1-7-2: Primary Election; When Required
1-7-1: CONDUCT:
Candidates for municipal office shall be nominated at a regular primary
election, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404(1). (Ord. 95-5-23-
3, 5-23-1995)
1-7-2: PRIMARY ELECTION; WHEN REQUIRED:
If the number of candidates for a particular municipal office does not exceed
twice the number of persons needed to fill that office, a primary election for
that office may not be held and the candidates are considered nominated. (Ord.
95-5-23-3, 5-23-1995)
CHAPTER 8
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Title
1-8-2: Purpose; Intent
1-8-3: Definitions
1-8-4: Right Of Public Access
1-8-5: Access To Nonpublic Records
1-8-6: Fees
1-8-7: Retention Of Records
1-8-8: Access Requests; Procedure
1-8-9: Classification; Designation
1-8-10: Public Records
1-8-11: Private Records
1-8-12: Controlled Records
1-8-13: Protected Records
1-8-14: Segregation Of Records
1-8-15: Data Maintained On Individuals; Rights
1-8-16: Amendments And Changes To Records; Request
1-8-17: Denial Of Request
1-8-18: Appeal Procedure
1-8-19: Confidential Treatment; No Applicable Exemption
1-8-20: Judicial Review
1-8-21: Criminal Penalties
1-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter is known as the ELK RIDGE CITY GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND
MANAGEMENT ACT. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-2: PURPOSE; INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: In enacting this chapter, the city recognizes two (2)
fundamental constitutional rights:
      1.   The right of privacy in relation to personal data gathered by the
city; and
      2.   The public's right of access to information concerning the conduct
of the public's business.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of the city to:
      1.   Establish fair information practices to prevent abuse of personal
information by the city while protecting the public's right of easy and
reasonable access to unrestricted public records;
      2.   Provide guidelines of openness to government information and privacy
of personal information consistent with nationwide standards;
      3.   Establish and maintain an active, continuing program for the
economical and efficient management of the city's records, as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AUDIT: A. A systematic examination of financial, management, program and
related records for the purpose of determining the fair presentation of
financial statements, adequacy of internal controls or compliance with laws and
regulations; or
   B.   A systematic examination of program procedures and operations for the
purpose of determining their effectiveness, economy, efficiency and compliance
with statutes and regulations.
CHRONOLOGICAL LOGS: The regular and customary summary records of law
enforcement agencies and other public safety agencies that show the time and
general nature of police, fire and paramedic calls made to the agency and any
arrests or jail bookings made by the agency.
CLASSIFICATION, CLASSIFY (And Their Derivative Forms): Determining whether a
record series, record or information within a record is public, private,
controlled or protected, or exempt from disclosure under Utah Code Annotated
section 63-2-201(3)(b).
COMPUTER PROGRAM: A series of instructions or statements that permit the
functioning of a computer system in a manner designed to provide storage,
retrieval and manipulation of data from the computer system, and any associated
documentation and source material that explain how to operate the computer
program. Computer program does not mean:
   A.   The original data, including numbers, text, voice, graphics and images;
   B.   Analysis, compilation and other manipulated forms of the original data
produced by use of the program; or
   C.   The mathematical or statistical formulas (excluding the underlying
mathematical algorithms contained in the program) that could be used if the
manipulated forms of the original data were to be produced manually.
CONTRACTOR: Any person who contracts with the city to provide goods or services
directly to the city or any private, nonprofit organization that receives funds
from the city. Contractor does not mean a private provider.
CONTROLLED RECORD: A record containing data on individuals that is controlled
as provided by section
1-8-12 of this chapter.
DESIGNATION, DESIGNATE (And Their Derivative Forms): Indicating, based on the
city's familiarity with a record series or based on the city's review of a
reasonable sample of a record series, the primary classification that a
majority of records in a record series would be given if classified and the
classification that other records typically present in the record series would
be given if classified.
GROSS COMPENSATION: Every form of remuneration payable for a given period to an
individual for services provided, including salaries, commissions, vacation
pay, severance pay, bonuses, and any board, rent, housing, lodging, payments in
kind, and any similar benefit received from the individual's employer.
INDIVIDUAL: A human being.
INITIAL CONTACT REPORT: A. An initial written or recorded report, however
titled, prepared by peace officers engaged in public patrol or response duties
describing official actions initially taken in response to either a public
complaint about or the discovery of an apparent violation of law, which report
may describe:
         1. The date, time, location and nature of the complaint, the incident
or offense;
         2. Names of victims;
        3. The nature or general scope of the agency's initial actions taken in
response to the incident;
         4. The general nature of any injuries or estimate of damages sustained
in the incident;
        5. The name, address and other identifying information about any person
arrested or charged in connection with the incident;
        6. The identity of the public safety personnel (except undercover
personnel) or prosecuting attorney involved in responding to the initial
incident.
   B.   Initial contact reports do not include follow up or investigative
reports prepared after the initial contact report. However, if the information
specified in subsection A of this definition appears in follow up or
investigative reports, it may only be treated confidentially if it is private,
controlled, protected or exempt from disclosure under Utah Code Annotated
section 63-3-201(3)(b).
PERSON: Any individual, nonprofit or profit corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship or other type of business organization.
PRIVATE PROVIDER: Any person who contracts with the city to provide services
directly to the public.
PRIVATE RECORD: A record containing data on individuals that is classified
private as provided by section
1-8-11 of this chapter.
PROTECTED RECORD: A record that is classified protected as provided by section
1-8-13 of this chapter.
PUBLIC RECORD: A record that has not been appropriately classified private,
controlled or protected as provided in sections
1-8-11 through
1-8-13 of this chapter.
RECORD: A. All books, letters, documents, papers, maps, plans, photographs,
films, cards, tapes, recording or other documentary materials and electronic
data, regardless of physical form or characteristics, prepared, owned, used,
received or retained by the city.
   B.   Record does not mean:
       1. Temporary drafts or similar materials prepared for the originator's
personal use or prepared by the originator for the personal use of an
individual for whom he is working;
        2. Materials that are legally owned by an individual in his private
capacity;
        3. Materials to which access is limited by the laws of copyright or
patent, unless the copyright or patent is owned by the city;
         4. Proprietary software;
         5. Junk mail or commercial publications received by the city or an
official or employee of the city;
        6. Books and other materials that are cataloged or inventoried and
contained in the collections of libraries open to the public, regardless of
physical form or characteristics of the material;
        7. Daily calendars and other personal notes prepared by the originator
for the originator's personal use or for the personal use of an individual for
whom he is working;
      8. "Computer programs", as defined herein, that are developed or
purchased by or for the city for its own use;
         9. Notes or internal memoranda prepared as part of the deliberative
process by a member of the judiciary, an administrative law judge, a member of
the board of pardons or a member of any other body charged by law with
performing a quasi-judicial function.
RECORD SERIES: A group of records that may be treated as a unit for purposes of
designation, description, management or disposition.
RECORDS OFFICER: The city recorder and other individuals as appointed by the
mayor to work in the care, maintenance, scheduling, designation,
classification, disposal and preservation of records.
SUMMARY DATA: Statistical records and compilations that contain data derived
from private, controlled or protected information, but that do not disclose
private, controlled or protected information. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff.
retroactive to 6-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-4: RIGHT OF PUBLIC ACCESS:
   A.   Authority: Every person has the right to inspect a public record free
of charge and the right to take a copy of a public record during normal working
hours, subject to the payment of costs and fees pursuant to section
1-8-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Public Records: All records are public unless otherwise expressly
provided by this chapter or state or federal law or regulation.
   C.   Nonpublic: The following records are not public:
      1.   Records that are appropriately classified private, controlled or
protected as allowed by sections
1-8-11 through
1-8-13 of this chapter; and
      2.   Records to which access is restricted pursuant to court rule,
another state statute, federal statute or federal regulation, including records
for which access is governed or restricted as a condition of participation in a
state or federal program or for receiving state or federal funds.
   D.   Private, Controlled Or Protected: Only those records specified in
sections
1-8-11 through
1-8-13 of this chapter may be classified private, controlled or protected.
   E.   Disclosure:
      1.   The city may not disclose a record that is private, controlled or
protected to any person except as provided in subsection E2 of this section or
section
1-8-5 of this chapter.
      2.   The city may, at its discretion, disclose records that are private
under subsection
1-8-11B or protected under section
1-8-13 of this chapter to persons other than those specified in this subsection
if the city council, or a designee, determines that there is no interest in
restricting access to the record, or that the interest favoring access
outweighs the interest favoring restriction of access.
   F.   Limited Access:
      1.   The disclosure of records to which access is governed or limited
pursuant to court rule, another state statute, federal statute or federal
regulation, including records for which access is governed or limited as a
condition of participation in a state or federal program, or for receiving
state or federal funds, is governed by the specific provisions of that statute,
rule or regulation.
      2.   This subsection applies to records described in subsection F1 of
this section insofar as this chapter is not inconsistent with the statute, rule
or regulation.
   G.   Certified Copies: The city shall provide a person with a certified copy
of a record if the person:
      1.   Requesting the record has a right to inspect it;
      2.   Identifies the record with reasonable specificity; and
      3.   Pays the lawful fees.
   H.   Creating Records; Duplicating Requests:
      1.   The city is not required to create a record in response to a
request.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter requires the city to fulfill a person's
records request if the request unreasonably duplicates prior records requests
from that person.
   I.   Numerous Pages: If a person requests copies of more than fifty (50)
pages of records, and if the records are contained in files that do not contain
records that are exempt from disclosure, the city may: (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-
1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
      1.   Provide the requester with the facilities for copying the requested
records and require that the requester personally make the copies; or (Ord. 92-
8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Allow the requester to provide his own copying facilities and
personnel to make the copies at the city offices, and waive the fees for
copying the records.
   J.   Intellectual Property Right:
      1.   If the city owns an intellectual property right and offers the
intellectual property right for sale or license, the city may control by
ordinance or policy the duplication and distribution of the material based on
terms the city considers to be in the public interest.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or impair the
rights or protections granted to the city under federal copyright or patent law
as a result of its ownership of the intellectual property right.
   K.   Form Of Record Not Used For Denial: The city may not use the physical
form, electronic or otherwise, in which a record is stored to deny, or
unreasonably hinder the rights of persons to inspect and receive copies of a
record under this chapter. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-
14-1992)
1-8-5: ACCESS TO NONPUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   Private Record: Upon request, the city shall disclose a private record
to:
      1.   The subject of the record;
      2.   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who is the
subject of the record;
      3.   The legal guardian of a legally incapacitated individual who is the
subject of the record;
      4.   Any other individual who:
         a.   Has a power of attorney from subject of the record; or
         b.   Submits a notarized release from the subject of the record or his
legal representative dated no later than ninety (90) days before the date the
request is made; or
      5.   Any person to whom the record must be provided pursuant to court
order.
   B.   Controlled Record:
      1.   Upon request, the city shall disclose a controlled record to:
         a.   A physician, psychologist or certified social worker upon
submission of a notarized release from the subject of the record that is dated
no more than ninety (90) days prior to the date the request is made and a
signed acknowledgement of the terms of disclosure of controlled information as
provided by subsection B2 of this section; and
         b.   Any person to whom a record must be disclosed pursuant to court
order.
      2.   A person who receives a record from the city in accordance with
subsection B1a of this section may not disclose controlled information from
that record to any person, including the subject of the record.
   C.   Segregation: If there is more than one subject of a private or
controlled record, the portion of the record that pertains to another subject
shall be segregated from the portion that the requester is entitled to inspect.
   D.   Protected Record: Upon request, the city shall disclose a protected
record to:
      1.   The person who submitted the information in the record;
      2.   Any other individual who:
         a.   Has a power of attorney from all persons, governmental entities
or political subdivisions whose interests were sought to be protected by the
protected classification; or
         b.   Submits a notarized release from their legal representatives
dated no more than ninety (90) days prior to the date the request is made;
      3.   Any person to whom a record must be provided pursuant to a court
order.
   E.   Governmental Entities: The city may disclose a record classified
private, controlled or protected to another governmental entity, city, another
state, the United States or a foreign government only as provided by Utah Code
Annotated section 63-2-206.
   F.   Identification: Before releasing a private, controlled or protected
record, the city shall obtain evidence of the requester's identity.
   G.   Court Order: The city shall disclose a record pursuant to the terms of
a court order signed by a judge from a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided, that:
      1.   The record deals with a matter in controversy over which the court
has jurisdiction;
      2.   The court has considered the merits of the request for access to the
record;
      3.   The court has considered and, where appropriate, limited the
requester's use and further disclosure of the record in order to protect
privacy interests in the case of private, controlled records, business
confidentiality interests in the case of records protected under Utah Code
Annotated sections 63-2-304(1) and (2), and privacy interests or the public
interest in the case of other protected records;
      4.   To the extent the record is properly classified private, controlled
or protected, the interests favoring access, considering limitations thereon,
outweigh the interests favoring restriction of access; and
      5.   Where access is restricted by a rule, statute or regulation referred
to in subsection
1-8-4C2 of this chapter, the court has authority independent of this chapter to
order disclosure.
   H.   Research:
      1.   The city may disclose or authorize disclosure of private or
controlled records for research purposes if the city:
         a.   Determines that the research purpose cannot reasonably be
accomplished without use of disclosure of the information to the researcher in
individually identifiable form;
         b.   Determines that the proposed research is bona fide and that the
value of the research outweighs the infringement upon personal privacy;
         c.   Requires the researcher to assure the integrity, confidentiality
and security of the records and requires the removal or destruction of the
individual identifiers associated with the records as soon as the purpose of
the research project has been accomplished;
         d.   Prohibits the researcher from disclosing the record in
individually identifiable form except as provided in subsection H2 of this
section, or from using the record for purposes other then the research approved
by the city; and
         e.   Secures from the researcher a written statement of his
understanding of and agreement to the conditions of this subsection and his
understanding that violation of the terms of this subsection may subject him to
criminal prosecution under Utah Code Annotated section 63-2-801.
      2.   A researcher may disclose a record in individually identifiable form
if the record is disclosed for the purpose of auditing or evaluating the
research program and no subsequent use or disclosure of the record in
individuality identifiable form will be made by the auditor or evaluator,
except as provided by this subsection.
      3.   The city may require indemnification as a condition of permitting
research under this subsection.
   I.   Other Than Specified Persons:
      1.   Under subsections
1-8-4E2 and
1-8-18D of this chapter, the city may disclose records that are private under
section 1-8-11B or protected under section
1-8-13 to persons other than those specified in this section.
      2.   Under section
1-8-18 of this chapter, the city council may require the disclosure of records
that are private under section
1-8-11, controlled under section
1-8-12 or protected under section
1-8-13 of this chapter to persons other than those specified in this section.
      3.   Under Utah Code Annotated section 63-2-404(8), the court may require
the disclosure of records that are private under section
1-8-11, controlled under section
1-8-12 or protected under section
1-8-13 of this chapter to persons other than those specified in this section.
(Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-6: FEES:
   A.   Authority: The city may charge a reasonable fee to cover the city's
actual cost of duplicating a record or compiling a record in a form other than
that maintained by the city. The fees may be set by resolution. The initial
fee, until changed by resolution, is as set forth in exhibit A, which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the city office. (Ord.
92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The city may fulfill a record request without charge when it
determines that:
         a.   Releasing the record primarily benefits the public rather than a
person;
         b.   The individual requesting the record is the subject of the
record; or
         c.   The requester's legal rights are directly implicated by the
information in the record, and the requester is impecunious.
      2.   The city may not charge a fee for:
         a.   Reviewing a record to determine whether it is subject to
disclosure; or
         b.   Inspecting a record. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive
to 6-14-1992)
1-8-7: RETENTION OF RECORDS:
The city shall by resolution establish a retention schedule for each record
series. The initial retention schedule shall be as set forth in exhibit B,
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the city
office. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
1-8-8: ACCESS REQUESTS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Request: A person making a request for a record shall furnish the city
with a written request containing his name, mailing address, daytime telephone
number if available, and a description of the records requested that identifies
the record with reasonable specificity.
   B.   Response Of City: As soon as reasonably possible, but no later than ten
(10) business days after receiving written request, or five (5) business days
after receiving a written request if the requester demonstrates that expedited
response to the record request benefits the public rather than the person, the
city shall respond to the request by:
      1.   Approving the request and providing the record;
      2.   Denying the request;
      3.   Notifying the requester that it does not maintain the record and
providing, if known, the name and address of where the record can be found; or
      4.   Notifying the requester that because of one of the extraordinary
circumstances listed in subsection D of this section, it cannot immediately
approve or deny the request. The notice shall describe the circumstances relied
upon and specify the earliest time and date when the records will be available.
   C.   Publication Or Broadcast: Any person who requests a record to obtain
information for a story or report for publication or broadcast to the general
public is presumed to be acting to benefit the public rather than a person.
   D.   Extraordinary Circumstances: The following circumstances constitute
"extraordinary circumstances" that allow the city to delay approval or denial
by an additional period of time as specified in subsection E of this section if
the city determines that due to the extraordinary circumstances, it cannot
respond within the time limits provided in subsection B of this section:
      1.   Another governmental entity is using the record, in which case the
city shall promptly request that the governmental entity currently in
possession return the record;
      2.   Another governmental entity is using the record as part of an audit
and returning the record before the completion of the audit would impair the
conduct of the audit;
      3.   The request is for a voluminous quantity of records;
      4.   The city is currently processing a large number of records requests;
      5.   The request requires the city to review a large number of records to
locate the records requested;
      6.   The decision to release a record involves legal issues that require
the city to seek legal counsel for the analysis of statutes, rules, ordinances,
regulations or case law;
      7.   Segregating information that the requester is entitled to inspect
from information that the requester is not entitled to inspect requires
extensive editing; or
      8.   Segregating information that the requester is entitled to inspect
from information that the requester is not entitled to inspect requires
computer programming.
   E.   Time Limits For Extraordinary Circumstances: If one of the
extraordinary circumstances listed in subsection D of this section precludes
approval or denial within the time specified in subsection B of this section,
the following time limits apply to the extraordinary circumstances:
      1.   For claims under subsection D1 of this section, the governmental
entity currently in possession of the record shall return the record to the
originating entity within five (5) business days of the request for the return
unless returning the record would impair the holder's work.
      2.   For claims under subsection D2 of this section, the originating city
shall notify the requester where the record is available for inspection and
copying;
      3.   For claims under subsections D3 through D5 of this section, the city
shall:
         a.   Disclose the records that it has located which the requester is
entitled to inspect;
         b.   Provide the requester with an estimate of the amount of time it
will take to finish the work required to respond to the request; and
         c.   Complete the work and disclose those records that requester is
entitled to inspect as soon as reasonably possible.
      4.   For delays under subsection D6 of this section, the city shall
either approve or deny the request within five (5) business days after the
response time specified for the original request has expired;
      5.   For delays under subsection D7 of this section, the city shall
fulfill the request within fifteen (15) business days from the date of the
original request; or
      6.   For delays under subsection D8 of this section, the city shall
complete its programming and disclose the requested records as soon as
reasonably possible.
   F.   Failure To Provide: If the city fails to provide the requested records
or issue a denial within the specified time period, that failure is considered
the equivalent of a determination denying access to the records. (Ord. 92-8-11-
9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-9: CLASSIFICATION; DESIGNATION:
   A.   Designation: The city shall:
      1.   Evaluate all record series that it uses or creates;
      2.   Designate those record series as provided by this chapter;
      3.   Report the designation of its record series to the state archives.
   B.   Classification: The city may classify a particular record, record
series or information within a record at any time, but is not required to
classify a particular record, record series or information until access of the
record is requested.
   C.   Redesignation: The city may redesignate a record series or reclassify a
record or record series, or information within a record at any time. (Ord. 92-
8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-10: PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   Specified: The following records are public:
      1.   Laws and ordinances;
      2.   Names, gender, gross compensation, job titles, job descriptions,
business addresses, business telephone numbers, number of hours worked per pay
period, dates of employment, and relevant education, previous employment, and
similar job qualifications of the city's former and present employees and
officers, excluding undercover law enforcement personnel or investigative
personnel if disclosure could reasonably be expected to impair the
effectiveness of investigations or endanger any individual's safety;
      3.   Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, and
orders that are made by the city in an administrative, adjudicative or judicial
proceedings, except that if the proceedings were properly closed to the public,
the opinion and order may be withheld to the extent that they contain
information that is private, protected or controlled;
      4.   Final interpretation of statutes or rules by the city unless
classified as protected as provided in subsections
1-8-13O through Q of this chapter;
      5.   Information contained in or compiled from a transcript, minutes or
report of the open portion of a meeting of the city, including the records of
all votes of each member of the city council;
      6.   Judicial records, unless a court orders the records to be restricted
under the rules of civil or criminal procedure or unless the records are
private under this chapter;
      7.   Records filed with or maintained by county recorders, clerks,
treasurer, surveyors, zoning commissions or the division of state lands and
forestry, the division of oil, gas and mining, the division of water rights, or
other governmental entities that give public notice of:
         a.   Titles or encumbrances to real property;
         b.   Restrictions on the use of real property;
         c.   The capacity of persons to take or convey title to real property;
or
         d.   Tax status for real and personal property.
      8.   Records of the department of commerce that evidence incorporations,
mergers, name changes and uniform commercial code filings;
      9.   Data on individuals that would otherwise be private under this
chapter if the individual who is the subject of the record has given the city
written permission to make the records available to the public;
      10.   Documentation of the compensation that the city pays to a
contractor or private provider; and
      11.   Summary data.
   B.   Restricted Access; Conditions: The following records are normally
public, but to the extent that a record is expressly exempt from disclosure,
access may be restricted under subsection
1-8-4C2 or sections
1-8-11 through
1-8-13 of this chapter:
      1.   Administrative staff manuals, instructions to staff and statements
of policy;
      2.   Records documenting a contractor's or private provider's compliance
with the terms of a contract with the city;
      3.   Records documenting the services provided by a contractor or private
provider to the extent the records would be public if prepared by the city;
      4.   Contracts entered into by the city;
      5.   Any account, voucher or contract that deals with the receipt or
expenditure of funds by the city;
      6.   Records relating to governmental assistance or incentives publicly
disclosed, contracted for or given by the city encouraging a person to expand
or relocate a business in Utah, except as provided in Utah Code Annotated
section 63-2-304(34);
      7.   Chronological logs and initial contact reports;
      8.   Correspondence by and with the city in which the city determines or
states an opinion upon the rights of the state, political subdivision, the
public or any person;
      9.   Empirical data contained in drafts if:
         a.   The empirical data is not reasonably available to the requester
elsewhere in similar form; and
         b.   The city is given a reasonable opportunity to correct any errors
or make nonsubstantive changes before release.
      10.   Drafts that are circulated to anyone other than the city, state or
federal agency if the city, state or federal agency is jointly responsible for
implementation of a program or project that has been legislatively approved;
      11.   Drafts that have never been finalized but were relied upon by the
city in carrying out action or policy;
      12.   Original data in a computer program if the city chooses not to
disclose the program;
      13.   Arrest warrants after issuance, except that for good cause, a court
may order restricted access to arrest warrants prior to service;
      14.   Search warrants after execution and filing of the return, except
that a court, for good cause, may order restricted access to search warrants
prior to trial;
      15.   Records that would disclose information relating to formal charges
or disciplinary actions against a past or present city employee if:
         a.   The disciplinary action has been completed and all time periods
for administrative appeal have expired; and
         b.   The formal charges were sustained.
      16.   Records maintained by the division of state lands and forestry or
the division of oil, gas and mining that evidence mineral production on
government lands;
      17.   Final audit reports;
      18.   Occupational and professional licenses;
      19.   Business licenses; and
      20.   A notice of violation, a notice of agency action under Utah Code
Annotated section 63-46b-3, or similar records used to initiate proceedings for
discipline or sanctions against persons regulated by the city, but not
including records that initiate employee discipline.
   C.   List Not Exhaustive: The list of public records in this section is not
exhaustive and should not be used to limit access to records. (Ord. 92-8-11-9,
8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-11: PRIVATE RECORDS:
   A.   Specified: The following records are private:
      1.   Records concerning an individual's eligibility for unemployment
insurance benefits, social services, welfare benefits or the determination of
benefit levels;
      2.   Records containing data on individuals describing medical history,
diagnosis, condition, treatment, evaluation or similar medical data;
      3.   Records of publicly funded libraries that, when examined alone or
with other records, identify a patron;
      4.   Records received or generated in a senate or house ethics committee
concerning any alleged violation of the rules on legislative ethics if the
ethics committee meeting was closed to the public; and
      5.   Records concerning a current or former employee of, or applicant for
employment with, the city that would disclose the individual's home address,
home telephone number, social security number, insurance coverage, marital
status or payroll deductions.
   B.   Properly Classified: The following records are private if properly
classified by the city:
      1.   Records concerning a current or former employee of, or applicant for
employment with, the city including performance evaluations and personal status
information such as race, religion or disabilities, but not including records
that are public under subsections
1-8-10A2 and
1-8-10B15 of this chapter or private under subsection A5 of this section.
      2.   Records describing an individual's finances, except that the
following are public:
         a.   Records described in subsection
1-8-10A of this chapter;
         b.   Information provided to the city for the purpose of complying
with a financial assurance requirement; or
         c.   Records that must be disclosed in accordance with another
statute.
      3.   Records of independent state agencies if the disclosure of the
records would conflict with fiduciary obligations of the agency;
      4.   Other records containing data on individuals, the disclosure of
which constitutes a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
      5.   Records provided by the United States or by a governmental entity
outside the state that are given with the requirement that the records be
managed as private records, if the providing entity states in writing that the
record would not be subject to public disclosure if retained by it. (Ord. 92-8-
11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-12: CONTROLLED RECORDS:
A record is controlled only if:
   A.   The record contains medical, psychiatric or psychological data about an
individual;
   B.   The city reasonably believes that:
      1.   Releasing the information in the record to the subject of the record
would be detrimental to the subject's mental health or to the safety of any
individual; or
      2.   Releasing the information would constitute a violation of normal
professional practice and medical ethics; and
      3.   The city has properly classified the record. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-
1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-13: PROTECTED RECORDS:
The following records are protected if properly classified by the city:
   A.   Trade secrets as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 13-24-2, if the
person submitting the trade secret has provided the city with the information
specified in Utah Code Annotated section 63-2-308;
   B.   Commercial information or nonindividual financial information obtained
from a person if:
      1.   Disclosure of the information could reasonably be expected to result
in unfair competitive injury to the person submitting the information or would
impair the ability of the city to obtain necessary information in the future;
      2.   The person submitting the information has a greater interest in
prohibiting access than the public in obtaining access; and
      3.   The person submitting the information has provided the city with the
information specified in Utah Code Annotated section 63-2-308.
   C.   Commercial or financial information acquired or prepared by the city to
the extent that a disclosure would lead to financial speculations in
currencies, securities or commodities that will interfere with a planned
transaction by the city or cause substantial financial injury to the city or
cause substantial financial injury to the city or state economy;
   D.   Test questions and answers to be used in future license, certification,
employment or academic examination;
   E.   Records, the disclosure of which would impair governmental procurement
or give an unfair advantage to any person proposing to enter into a contract or
agreement with the city, except that this subsection does not restrict the
right of a person to see bids submitted to or by the city after bidding has
closed;
   F.   Records that would identify real property or the appraisal or estimated
value of real or personal property, including intellectual property, under
consideration for public acquisition before any rights to the property are
acquired unless:
      1.   Public interest in obtaining access to the information outweighs the
city's need to acquire the property on the best terms possible;
      2.   The information has already been disclosed to persons not employed
by or under a duty of confidentiality to the entity;
      3.   In the case of records that would identify property, potential
sellers of the property described have already learned of the city's plans to
acquire the property;
      4.   In the case of records that would identify the appraised or
estimated value of property, the potential sellers have already learned of the
city's estimated value of the property.
   G.   Records prepared in contemplation of sale, exchange, lease, rental or
other compensated transaction of real or personal property, including
intellectual property which, if disclosed prior to completion of the
transaction, would reveal the appraisal or estimated value of the subject
property, unless:
      1.   The public interest in access outweighs the interests in restricting
access, including the city's interest in maximizing the financial benefit of
the transaction; or
      2.   When prepared by or on behalf of the city, appraisals or estimates
of the value of the subject property have already been disclosed to persons not
employed by or under a duty of confidentiality to the city.
   H.   Records created or maintained for civil, criminal or administrative
enforcement purposes or audit purposes, or for discipline, licensing,
certification or registration purposes if release of the records:
      1.   Reasonably could be expected to interfere with investigations
undertaken for enforcement, discipline, licensing, certification or
registration purposes;
      2.   Reasonably could be expected to interfere with audits, disciplinary
or enforcement proceedings;
      3.   Would create a danger of depriving a person of a right to a fair
trial or impartial hearing;
      4.   Reasonably could be expected to disclose the identity of a source
who is not generally known outside of government and, in the case of a record
compiled in the course of an investigation, disclose information furnished by a
source not generally known outside of government if disclosure would compromise
the source; or
      5.   Reasonably could be expected to disclose investigative or audit
techniques, procedures, policies or orders not generally known outside of
government if disclosure would interfere with enforcement or audit efforts.
   I.   Records, the disclosure of which would jeopardize the life or safety of
an individual;
   J.   Records, the disclosure of which would jeopardize the security of
governmental property, governmental programs or governmental record keeping
systems from damage, theft or other appropriation or use contrary to law or
public policy;
   K.   Records that, if disclosed, would jeopardize the security or safety of
a correctional facility, or records relating to incarceration, treatment,
probation or parole, that would interfere with the control and supervision of
an offender's incarceration, treatment, probation or parole;
   L.   Records that, if disclosed, would reveal recommendations made to the
board of pardons by an employee of or contractor for the department of
corrections, the board of pardons or the department of human services that are
based on the employee's or contractor's supervision, diagnosis or treatment of
any person within the board's jurisdiction;
   M.   Records and audit work papers that identify audit, collection and
operational procedures and methods used by the Utah state tax commission if
disclosure would interfere with audits or collections;
   N.   Records of a governmental audit agency relating to an ongoing or
planned audit until the final audit is released;
   O.   Records prepared by or on behalf of the city solely in anticipation of
litigation that are not available under the rules of discovery;
   P.   Records disclosing an attorney's work product, including the mental
impressions or legal theories of an attorney or other representative of the
city concerning litigation;
   Q.   Records of communications between the city and an attorney
representing, retained or employed by the city if the communications would be
privileged as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 78-24-8;
   R.   Drafts, unless otherwise classified as public;
   S.   Records concerning the city's strategy about collective bargaining or
pending litigation;
   T.   Records of investigations of loss occurrences and analyses of loss
occurrences;
   U.   Records, other than personnel evaluations, that contain a personal
recommendation concerning an individual if disclosure would constitute a
clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, or disclosure is not in the
public interest;
   V.   Records that reveal the location of historic, prehistoric,
paleontological or biological resources that if known would jeopardize the
security of those resources or of valuable historic, scientific, educational or
cultural information;
   W.   Records of independent state agencies if the disclosure of the records
would conflict with the fiduciary obligations of the agency;
   X.   Records provided by the United States or by a government entity outside
the state that are given to the city with a requirement that they be managed as
protected records if the providing entity certifies that the record would not
be subject to public disclosure if retained by it;
   Y.   Transcripts, minutes or reports of the closed portion of a meeting of a
public body, except as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-7, open and
public meetings act;
   Z.   Records that would reveal the contents of settlement negotiations, but
not including final settlements or empirical data to the extent that they are
not otherwise exempt from disclosure;
   AA.   Memoranda prepared by staff and used in the decision making process by
an administrative law judge, a member of the board of pardons or a member of
any other body charged by law with performing a quasi-judicial function;
   BB.   Records that would reveal negotiations regarding assistance or
incentives offered by or requested from the city for the purpose of encouraging
a person to expand or locate a business in Utah, but only if disclosure would
result in actual economic harm to the person or place the city at a competitive
disadvantage, but this subsection may not be used to restrict access to a
record evidencing a final contract; and
   CC.   Materials to which access must be limited for purposes of securing or
maintaining the city's proprietary protection of intellectual property rights
including patents, copyrights and trade secrets. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992,
eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-14: SEGREGATION OF RECORDS:
Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, if the city receives a
request for access to a record that contains both information that the
requester is entitled to inspect and information that the requester is not
entitled to inspect under this chapter, and, if the information the requester
is entitled to inspect is intelligible, the city:
   A.   Allow Access: Shall allow access to information in the record that the
requester is entitled to inspect under this chapter; and
   B.   Deny Access: May deny access to information in the record if the
information is exempt from disclosure to the requester, issuing a notice of
denial. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-15: DATA MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS; RIGHTS:
   A.   File With State Archivist:
      1.   The city shall file with the state archivist a statement explaining
the purposes for which record series designated private or controlled are
collected and used by the city.
      2.   That statement is a public record.
   B.   Explanation To Individual: Upon request, the city shall explain to an
individual:
      1.   The reasons the individual is asked to furnish to the city
information that could be classified private or controlled;
      2.   The intended uses of the information; and
      3.   The consequences for refusing to provide the information.
   C.   Uses: The city may not use private or controlled records for purposes
other than those given in the statement filed with the state archivist under
subsection A of this section or for purposes other than those for which another
governmental entity could use the record under Utah Code Annotated section 63-
2-206. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-16: AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES TO RECORDS; REQUEST:
   A.   Request; Information:
      1.   Subject to subsection G of this section, an individual may contest
the accuracy or completeness of any public, private or protected record
concerning him by requesting the city to amend the record. However, this
section does not affect the right of access to private or protected records.
      2.   The request shall contain the following information:
         a.   The requester's name, mailing address and daytime telephone
number; and
         b.   A brief statement explaining why the city should amend the
record.
   B.   Order; Time Limit: The city shall issue an order either approving or
denying the request to amend no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of
the request.
   C.   Approval: If the city approves the request, it shall correct all of its
records that contain the same incorrect information as soon as practical. The
city may not disclose the record until it has amended it.
   D.   Denial: If the city denies the request, it shall:
      1.   Inform the requester in writing; and
      2.   Provide a brief statement giving its reasons for denying the
request.
   E.   Statement Contesting Information:
      1.   If the city denies a request to amend a record, the requester may
submit a written statement contesting the information in the record.
      2.   The city shall:
         a.   File the requester's statement with the disputed record if the
record is in a form such that the statement can accompany the record or make
the statement accessible if the record is not in a form such that the statement
can accompany the record; and
         b.   Disclose the requester's statement along with the information in
the record whenever the city discloses the disputed information.
   F.   Appeal: The requester may appeal the denial of the request to amend a
record pursuant to section
1-8-18 of this chapter.
   G.   Exception: This section does not apply to records relating to title to
real or personal property, medical records, judicial case files or any other
records that the city determines must be maintained in their original form to
protect the public interest and to preserve the integrity of the record system.
(Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-17: DENIAL OF REQUEST:
   A.   Notice: If the city denies the request in whole or part, it shall
provide a notice of denial to the requester either in person or by sending the
notice to requester's address.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice of denial shall contain the following
information:
      1.   A description of the record or portions of the record to which
access was denied; provided, that the description does not disclose private,
controlled or protected information or records to which access is restricted
pursuant to court rule, another state statute, federal statute or federal
regulation, including records for which access is governed or restricted as a
condition of participation in a state or federal program or for receiving state
or federal funds;
      2.   Citations to the provisions of this chapter, another state statute,
federal statute, court rule or order or federal regulation that exempt the
record or portions of the record from disclosure; provided, that the citations
do not disclose private, controlled or protected information;
      3.   Statement that the requester has the right to appeal the denial to
the city council; and
      4.   A brief summary of the appeals process and the time limits for
filing an appeal.
   C.   Preservation Of Record: Unless otherwise required by a court or agency
of competent jurisdiction, the city may not destroy or give up custody of any
record to which access was denied until the period for an appeal has expired or
the end of the appeals process, including judicial appeal. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-
11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-18: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Aggrieved Party:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by the city's access determination under this
chapter, including a person not a party to the city's proceeding, may appeal
the determination first to the mayor and city council by filing a notice of
appeal. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
      2.   If the city claims extraordinary circumstances and specifies the
date when the records will be available and, if the requester believes the
extraordinary circumstances do not exist or that the time specified is
unreasonable, the requester may appeal the city's claim of extraordinary
circumstances or date for compliance within thirty (30) days after notification
of a claim of extraordinary circumstances by the city, despite the lack of a
"determination" or its equivalent.
   B.   Claims Of Business Confidentiality:
      1.   If the appeal involves a record that is the subject of a business
confidentiality claim under Utah Code Annotated section 63-2-308 or this
chapter, the city recorder shall:
         a.   Send notice of the requester's appeal to the business
confidentiality claimant within three (3) business days after receiving notice,
except that if notice under this section must be given to more than thirty five
(35) persons, it shall be given as soon as reasonably possible;
         b.   Send notice of the business confidentiality claim and a schedule
for the city recorder's determination to the requester within three (3)
business days after receiving notice of the requester's appeal.
      2.   The claimant shall have seven (7) business days after notice is sent
by the city recorder to submit further support for the claim of business
confidentiality.
   C.   Determination By Mayor:
      1.   The mayor shall make a determination on any appeal within the
following period of time:
         a.   Within five (5) business days after the mayor's receipt of the
notice of appeal; or
         b.   Within twelve (12) business days after the city sends the
requester's notice of appeal to a person who submitted a claim of business
confidentiality.
      2.   If the mayor fails to make a determination within the time specified
in subsection C1 of this section, the failure shall be considered the
equivalent of an order denying the appeal.
      3.   The provisions of this section notwithstanding, the parties
participating in the proceeding may, by agreement, extend the time periods
specified in this section.
   D.   Order Of Disclosure: The mayor may, upon consideration and weighing of
the various interests and public policies pertinent to the classification and
disclosure or nondisclosure, order the disclosure of information properly
classified as private under subsection
1-8-11B or protected under section
1-8-13 of this chapter if the interests favoring access outweigh the interests
favoring restriction of access.
   E.   Notice Of Determination: The city shall send written notice of the
determination of the mayor to all participants. If the mayor affirms the denial
in whole or in part, the denial shall include a statement that the requester
has the right to appeal the denial to the city council, and the time limits for
filing an appeal.
   F.   Duties Of Mayor Delegated: The duties of the mayor under this section
may be delegated.
   G.   City Council Appeal; Time Limit: The notice of appeal to the city
council must be filed with the city recorder no later than thirty (30) days
after the mayor has denied the appeal or fails to make a determination within
the time specified in subsection C1 of this section.
   H.   Information Required: The notice of appeal shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The petitioner's name, mailing address and daytime telephone number;
and
      2.   The relief sought.
   I.   Statement Of Facts: The petitioner may file a short statement of facts,
reasons and legal authority in support of the appeal.
   J.   Hearing: No later than three (3) days after receiving a notice of
appeal, the city recorder shall:
      1.   Schedule a hearing for the city council to discuss the appeal, which
shall be held no sooner than fifteen (15) days and no later than thirty (30)
days from the date of the filing of the appeal;
      2.   At the hearing, the city council shall allow the parties to testify,
present evidence and comment on the issues. The city council may allow other
interested persons to comment on the issues. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff.
retroactive to 6-14-1992)
      3.   No later than three (3) business days after the hearing, the city
council shall issue a signed order either granting the petition in whole or in
part or upholding the determination of the mayor in whole or in part. (Ord. 92-
8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   The order of the city shall include:
         a.   A statement of reasons for the decision, including citations to
this chapter or federal regulation that governs disclosure of the record;
provided, that the citations do not disclose private, controlled or protected
information;
         b.   A description of the record or portions of the record to which
access was ordered or denied; provided, that the description does not disclose
private, controlled or protected information;
         c.   A statement that any party to the appeal may appeal the city's
decision to district court; and
         d.   A brief summary of the appeal, and a notice that in order to
protect its rights on appeal, the party may wish to seek advice from an
attorney.
   K.   Classification Or Designation Appeal: A person aggrieved by the city's
classification or designation determination under this chapter, but who is not
requesting access to the records, may appeal that determination using the
procedures provided in this section. If a nonrequestor is the only appellant,
the procedures provided in this section shall apply, except that the
determination on the appeal shall be made within thirty (30) days after
receiving the notice of appeal. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to
6-14-1992)
1-8-19: CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT; NO APPLICABLE EXEMPTION:
   A.   Court Order: A court may, on appeal or in a declaratory or other
action, order the confidential treatment of records for which no exemption from
disclosure applies if:
      1.   There are compelling interests favoring restriction of access to the
record; and
      2.   The interests favoring restriction of access clearly outweigh the
interests favoring access.
   B.   City Requests Restricted Access; Attorney Fees: If the city requests a
court to restrict access to a record under this section, the court shall
require the city to pay the reasonable attorney fees incurred by the lead party
in opposing the city's request, if:
      1.   The court finds that no statutory or constitutional exemption from
disclosure could reasonably apply to the record in question; and
      2.   The court denies confidential treatment under this section.
   C.   Exception: This section does not apply to records that are specifically
required to be public under section
1-8-10 of this chapter or Utah Code Annotated section 63-2-301, except as
provided in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Limited Access:
      1.   Access to drafts and empirical data in drafts may be limited under
this section, but the court may consider, in its evaluation of interests
favoring restriction of access, only those interests that relate to the
underlying information, and not to the deliberative nature of the record.
      2.   Access to original data in a computer program may be limited under
this section, but the court may consider, in its evaluation of interest
favoring restriction of access, only those interests that relate to the
underlying information, and not to the status of that data as part of a
computer program. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-20: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any party to a proceeding before the city council may petition for judicial
review by the district court of the city council's order. The petition shall be
filed no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the city council's
order. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992)
1-8-21: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   Intentional Disclosure; Defenses To Prosecution:
      1.   A public employee or other person who has lawful access to any
private, controlled or protected record under this chapter, and who
intentionally discloses or provides a copy of a private, controlled or
protected record to any person knowing that such disclosure is prohibited, is
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title.
      2.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection A1 of this section
that the actor released private, controlled or protected information in the
reasonable belief that the disclosure of the information was necessary to
expose a violation of law involving government corruption, abuse of office, or
misappropriation of public funds or property.
      3.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection A1 of this section
that the record could have been released to the recipient if it had been
properly classified.
   B.   False Pretenses, Bribery Or Theft:
      1.   A person who by false pretenses, bribery or theft, gains access to
or obtains a copy of any private, controlled or protected record to which he is
not legally entitled is guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title.
      2.   No person shall be guilty under subsection B1 of this section who
receives the record, information or copy after the fact and without prior
knowledge of or participation in the false pretenses, bribery or theft.
   C.   Intentional Refusal To Release: A public employee who intentionally
refuses to release a record, the disclosure of which the employee knows is
required by law or by final unappealed order from the city, the mayor and city
council, or a court, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 92-8-11-9, 8-11-1992, eff. retroactive to 6-14-1992;
amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Policy Considerations
1-9-2: Definition
1-9-3: Guidelines Advisory
1-9-4: Review Of Decision
1-9-5: Reviewing Guidelines
1-9-6: Results Of Review
1-9-1: POLICY CONSIDERATIONS:
There is an underlying policy in the city, strongly favoring the careful
consideration of matters involving constitutional taking claims, in fairness to
the owner of private property bringing the claim and in view of the uncertainty
and expense involved in defending lawsuits alleging such issues. At the same
time, the legitimate role of government in lawfully regulating real property
must be preserved and the public's right to require the dedication or exaction
of property consistent with the constitution. Consistent with this policy, it
is desired that a procedure be established for the review of actions that may
involve the issue of a constitutional taking. These provisions are to assist
governments in considering decisions that may involve constitutional takings.
It is intended that a procedure for such a review is to be provided, as well as
guidelines for such considerations. This chapter is further intended and shall
be construed to objectively and fairly review claims by citizens that a
specific government action should require payment of just compensation, yet
preserve the ability of the city to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill
its other duties and functions. (Ord. 95-2-14-1, 2-14-1995)
1-9-2: DEFINITION:
   A.   "Constitutional taking" means actions by the city involving the
physical taking or exaction of private real property that might require
compensation to a private real property owner because of:
      1.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment to the constitution of the United
States;
      2.   Article 1, section 22, of the Utah constitution;
      3.   Any court ruling governing the physical taking or exaction of
private real property by a government entity.
   B.   Actions by the city involving the physical taking or exaction of
private real property is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or
exaction:
      1.   Bears an essential nexus to legitimate governmental interests; and
      2.   Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an
individualized property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
proposed development on the legitimate government interest. (Ord. 95-2-14-1, 2-
14-1995)
1-9-3: GUIDELINES ADVISORY:
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of the city's liability for a constitutional taking. The reviewing body
or person shall not be required to make any determination under this chapter,
except pursuant to section
1-9-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 95-2-14-1, 2-14-1995)
1-9-4: REVIEW OF DECISION:
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of their private real property shall request a review of a final
decision of any officer, employee, board, commission or council. The following
are specific procedures established for such a review:
   A.   Final Determination Required: The person requesting a review must have
obtained a final and authoritative determination, internally, within the city,
relative to the decision from which they are requesting review.
   B.   Request For Review: Within thirty (30) days from the date of the final
decision that gave rise to the concern that a constitutional taking has
occurred, the person requesting the review shall file in writing, in the office
of the city recorder, a request for review of that decision. A copy shall also
be filed with the city attorney.
   C.   Review Time Set: The city council, or an individual or body designated
by the city council, shall immediately set a time to review the decision that
gave rise to the constitutional taking claim.
   D.   Required Information; Materials: In addition to the written request for
review, the applicant must submit prior to the date of the review, the
following:
      1.   Name of the applicant requesting review;
      2.   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for profit or not for profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and if owned by a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, name and address of all principal
shareholders or partners;
      3.   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
      4.   A detailed description of the property taken;
      5.   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property taken,
including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired. This should
include any evidence of the value of that same property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased,
including the relationship if any, between the person requesting a review and
the party from whom the property was acquired;
      6.   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as,
but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
      7.   Terms (including sales price) of any previous purchase or sale of a
full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
      8.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3)
years prior to the date of application;
      9.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the
previous three (3) years;
      10.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured
by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest
rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other significant
provisions, including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the
loan;
      11.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
      12.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
      13.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three (3) years;
      14.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
      15.   The city council or their designee may request additional
information reasonably necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
   E.   Certification Of Application: An application shall not be deemed to be
"complete" or "submitted" until the reviewing body certifies to the applicant
that all the materials and information required above have been received by the
city. The reviewing body shall promptly notify the applicant of any incomplete
application.
   F.   Evidence Considered: The city council or an individual or body
designated by them, shall hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the
applicant, city or any other interested party.
   G.   Approval, Rejection; Time Limit: A final decision on the review shall
be rendered within fourteen (14) days from the date the complete application
for review has been received by the city recorder. The decision of the city
council or designee regarding the results of the review shall be given in
writing to the applicant and the officer, employee, board, commission or
council that rendered the final decision that gave rise to the constitutional
taking claim.
   H.   Failure To Review: If the city council fails to hear and decide the
review within fourteen (14) days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed
to be approved. (Ord. 95-2-14-1, 2-14-1995)
1-9-5: REVIEWING GUIDELINES:
The city council shall review the facts and information presented by the
applicant to determine whether or not the action by the city constitutes a
"constitutional taking", as defined in section
1-9-2 of this chapter. In doing so, they shall consider:
   A.   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest.
   B.   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken
by the city.
   C.   Is the property and exaction taken roughly proportionate and reasonably
related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent to the
impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision being
reviewed. (Ord. 95-2-14-1, 2-14-1995)
1-9-6: RESULTS OF REVIEW:
After completing the review, the reviewing person or body shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, board,
commission or council that made the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional taking claim. (Ord. 95-2-14-1, 2-14-1995)
CHAPTER 10
PURCHASING POLICY
SECTION:
1-10-1: System Adopted
1-10-2: Compliance
1-10-3: Definitions
1-10-4: Administration
1-10-5: Bid Process
1-10-6: Choice Of Bid Process
1-10-7: Awarding Of Bids and RFP's
1-10-8: Exceptions To Bidding Requirements
1-10-9: Penalties
1-10-1: SYSTEM ADOPTED:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated §§ 10-6-122, 10-8-1, §10-8-2, 63G-6a-103(58)
(a), and 63G-6a-103(47)(a) and other pertinent provisions of the laws of the
state of Utah, there is adopted and established a purchasing system for Elk
Ridge City which shall be based on the following principles. (Ord. 21-03, 2-9-
2021)
1-10-2: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   It shall be the general policy of the city council, and the
departments, agencies, committees, commissions, officials and employees of the
city, to abide by the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   B.   This chapter shall not prevent the city from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
   C.   When procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance funds,
the city shall comply with applicable federal laws and regulations.
   D.   In any such case, the spirit of this chapter shall guide the
determination and actions of such person or entity.
   E.   Procurements with a dollar amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or
less may be approved by the individual department heads.
   F.   Procurements with a dollar amount greater than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and not more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) shall be
approved by the department head and Mayor or City Clerk.
   G.   For all procurements not otherwise budgeted, such determination may
only be approved by the city council. (Ord. 21-03, 2-9-2021)
1-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms as used in this chapter, shall
have the following meanings:
ADEQUATE      Sufficient fund balance which must exist in the line item appropriation in the
APPROPRIATION approved budget against which the purchase order is to be charged.
BALANCE:
BIDDING:      The procedure used to solicit quotations on price and delivery from various
              prospective suppliers of supplies, equipment and contractual services.
              The process used by the City to solicit and award bids or contracts. Examples of
BID PROCESS:  bid processes used in this chapter include formal competitive bidding,
              competitive sealed proposals in lieu of bids and open market procedure.
CAPITAL       Any construction which adds to or improves infrastructure or buildings of the
IMPROVEMENTS  City.
PROJECTS:
              The process of building, renovating or demolishing any public structure or
CONSTRUCTION: building, major developmental work, or landscaping of public real property. It
              does not include the routine operations, routine repair, or routine maintenance
              of existing structures, buildings or real property.
LINE ITEM     Changes to the quantities of existing line items with unit pricing approved
CHANGE ORDER: according to the purchasing system.
              A firm or individual who regularly maintains a place of business and transacts
LOCAL BIDDER: business in, or maintains an inventory of merchandise for sale in, or is licensed
              by, or pays business taxes to the City.
              A person or firm who has the capability in all respects to perform fully the
              contract requirements and who has the integrity and reliability which will assure
              good faith performance. The lowest responsible bidder is a bidder who has
              submitted the lowest bid to furnish supplies or contractual services to the City,
              and who meets the standards set forth in this definition. The lowest responsible
              bidder's bid shall comply with the specifications, delivery terms and conditions,
              and other qualifications and requirements included in the invitation for bids,
              and shall be accompanied by any bonds required by the City or other applicable
              law. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the City shall give primary
              emphasis to bid price, but may also consider the following items in addition to
              the actual bid price:
LOWEST        1.   The ability, capacity, experience and skill of the bidder to perform the
RESPONSIBLE   service required.
BIDDER:       2.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide his or her services
              within the time specified.
              3.   The quality and performance of previous services by the bidder, either to
              the City or another entity.
              4.   Quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or contractual
              services to the particular use required.
              5.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service.
              6.   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid or price quotation.
              7.   The maintenance history of the product, the parts and service costs of the
              product, existing inventory, mechanic's expertise, and ease of maintenance.
              All bidders shall furnish information and data requested by the City that will
              assist the City in determining whether or not a particular bidder is the "lowest
              responsible bidder".
PROFESSIONAL  Means, but not be limited to, the following: auditing, architecture, banking,
SERVICES:     insurance, engineering, appraisals, legal services, program management, and other
              consulting services.
PUBLIC        Any item of real or personal property owned by the City.
PROPERTY:
RESPONSIBLE   An offer, submitted by a responsible bidder to furnish supplies, equipment or
BID:          contractual services in conformity with the specifications, delivery terms and
              conditions, and other requirements included in the invitation for bids.
RESPONSIVE    A bidder or offeror who submits a response to an invitation for bids or a request
BID:          for proposals that conforms in all material respects to the invitation for bids
              or request for proposals.
STATE BID     An approved cooperative contract through the Utah Division of Purchasing.
LIST:
              Any tangible and all articles of personal property or things which shall be
SUPPLIES,     furnished to or used by any City department or by any City employee in the
MATERIALS AND performance of his or her duties. For purposes of brevity, supplies, materials
EQUIPMENT:    and equipment shall hereafter be collectively referred to as "supplies". (Ord.
              21-03, 2-9-2021)
 
1-10-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The Mayor or City Clerk, shall function as the chief procurement officer for
the City, shall administer the purchasing system provided by this chapter, and
shall perform the duties and have the powers concerning purchasing as follows:
   A.   Administer and maintain the purchasing system;
   B.   Recommend to the City such new or revised purchasing requirements as
deemed desirable and in conformance with other statutory requirements;
   C.   Negotiate and recommend execution of contracts for the purchase of
supplies, equipment and contractual services;
   D.   Seek to obtain as full and open competition as possible on all
purchases;
   E.   Keep informed of current developments in the field of purchasing, i.e.,
prices, market conditions, new products, etc.;
   F.   Prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonably necessary to the
operation of this chapter and other rules and regulations;
   G.   Supervise the inspection of all supplies and equipment to assure
conformance with specifications;
   H.   Transfer surplus or unused supplies and equipment between departments
as needed;
   I.   Maintain a bidders' list, vendors' catalog file, and other records
needed for the efficient operation of the purchasing system. (Ord. 21-03, 2-9-
2021)
1-10-5: BID PROCESS:
The City shall substantially comply with the following guidelines for the
specific bid process used:
   A.   Formal Competitive Bidding:
      1.   Notice Inviting Bids Issued: Notice includes a general description
of the articles to be purchased or the work to be performed, the location where
bid plans and specifications may be secured, and the time and place for opening
bids. The notice inviting bids shall be:
         a.   In cases involving building improvements or public works projects
over the bid limit as defined in Utah Code Ann. §11-39-101 by requests for bids
or proposals. Such notice shall be published twice (2) in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City at least fourteen (14) days before the date
of the opening of the bids and shall be posted on an electronic bid page which
is accessible to large numbers of potential bidders. At the discretion of the
City, the notice inviting bids may be delivered to all known responsible
prospective bidders, including those whose names are on a bidders' list or who
have made a written request that their names be added to the bidders' list
         b.   In cases involving building improvements or public works projects
less than the bid limit defined in Utah Code Ann. § 11-39-101, or the purchase
of any supplies, materials and equipment:
            I.   The City may perform the work itself,
            II.   The City may purchase off the State Bid List, or,
            III.   Bid requests may be delivered to all known responsible
prospective bidders and/or suppliers, including those whose names are on a
bidders' list or who have made a written request that their names be added to
the bidders' list, or post on an electronic bid page which is accessible to
large numbers of potential bidders.
      2.   State Bid List: If there is a quotation for the item desired to be
purchased on the State Division of Purchasing cooperative contracts ("Bid
List"), the City may invite prospective bidders to bid against the price quoted
in the State Bid List.
      3.   Bid Procedure:
         a.   Sealed bids shall be submitted as designated in the notice with
the statement "Bid for (item or project)" on the envelope.
         b.   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in
the notice.
         c.   A tabulation of all bids received shall be open for public
inspection during regular business hours for a period of not less than thirty
(30) days after the bid opening.
         d.   Bids submitted to the City shall be evaluated on the basis of
compliance with specifications and other relevant criteria.
      4.   Bid Award: Bids shall be awarded or rejected as set forth in Section
1-10-7.
   B.   Competitive Sealed Proposals In Lieu Of Bids (RFP): This process may
only be used when the Mayor or City Clerk determines that the use of formal
competitive bidding is either impractical or not advantageous to the City, or
for professional service contracts.
      1.   Notice:
         a.   Public notice of the request for proposals shall be given by
publication twice in a newspaper, magazine or journal likely to give notice to
qualified proposers, bidders or suppliers fourteen (14) days prior to the date
of opening the proposals, and
         b.   Notice shall be posted on an electronic bid page which is
accessible to large numbers of potential bidders.
      2.   Request For Proposals: The RFP shall state the relative importance
of price and other evaluating factors.
      3.   Opening Of Proposals:
         a.   Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents
to competing proposers during the process of negotiation.
         b.   A register of proposals shall be maintained by the City for
thirty (30) days after the contract award and shall be open for public
inspection.
      4.   Revision Of Proposals:
         a.   As provided in the request for proposals, discussions may be
conducted with responsible bidders who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for award. The purpose of the
discussion is to assure full understanding of and responsiveness to the
solicitation requirements.
         b.   Proposers shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect
to any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals. Any revision may
be permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining
best and final offers.
         c.   In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure of any
information derived from proposals submitted by competing bidders.
      5.   Award of Proposal: Award shall be made to the responsible proposer
whose proposal is determined to be the most advantageous to the City, taking
into consideration the evaluation factors set forth in the request for
proposals, and other criteria set forth herein. The City may further negotiate
terms in order to comply with budgets, specific services/products sought, and
other matters beneficial to the City. The award shall be in accordance with
Section
1-10-7.
   C.   Open Market Procedure:
      1.   Supplies may be purchased through supplier accounts the City has
opened with various vendors. Employees are encouraged to use sales events for
those common supplies sold through various public vendors.
      2.   Purchases shall be based on at least three (3) bids (price
quotations) and shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder.
      3.   Bids (price quotations) shall be solicited from prospective vendors
by written or oral request.
      4.   The Mayor or City Clerk may approve purchases on the open market.
(Ord. 21-03, 2-9-2021)
1-10-6: CHOICE OF BID PROCESS:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter or by provisions of State or
Federal law, purchases of supplies, services, or equipment shall follow one of
the bid or RFP processes outlined below for the appropriate dollar amount. In
cases where more than one alternative is listed as acceptable for a given
dollar amount, any of the listed alternatives shall be acceptable. The City
shall not incur any liability for choosing one alternative over another. The
choices of bid process are as follows:
   A.   Purchases in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) shall be
pursuant to one of the following procedures:
      1.   State Bid.
      2.   Formal competitive bidding, with the requirement of publishing
notice.
      3.   Competitive sealed proposals in lieu of bids.
   B.   Purchases greater than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
but not more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) shall be pursuant to one
of the following procedures:
      1.   State Bid.
      2.   Formal competitive bidding, without the requirement of publishing
notice.
      3.   Competitive sealed proposals in lieu of bids.
      4.   Open market procedure (three (3) written bids).
   C.   For purchases of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or less,
all bid processes and price solicitation procedures may be dispensed with.
(Ord. 21-03, 2-9-2021)
1-10-7: AWARDING OF BIDS AND RFP'S:
   A.   Bids/Purchases In Relation To Budget: Except as otherwise required by
law, building improvement or public works projects and supplies, services, and
equipment, no more than ten percent (10%) in excess of the appropriation
balance, and within the scope of the project, as budgeted by the City Council,
may be accepted and awarded by the Mayor or City Clerk. Bids which exceed the
budgeted amounts by more than ten percent (10%) of the appropriation balance
must be approved and awarded by the City Council.
   B.   Professional Services: Contracts for professional services in an
estimated amount that exceeds the appropriation balance by no more than 10%,
and within the scope of or related to the project, as budgeted by the City
Council, may be accepted and awarded by the Mayor or City Clerk. Proposals
which exceed the budgeted amounts by more than ten percent (10%) of the
appropriation balance must be approved and awarded by the City Council.
   C.   Rejection Of Bids: The City Council or the Mayor or City Clerk, or
others authorized to accept and award bids may reject any and all bids
presented, and may resolicit for bids as set forth in this Chapter.
   D.   Lowest Responsible Bidder: Except as otherwise allowed or required, the
City shall award the contract or bid to the lowest responsible bidder.
   E.   Negotiation Of Bids: Where a bid exceeds available funds and time or
economic considerations preclude re-solicitation of work or purchase of a
reduced scope or quantity, the Mayor or City Clerk may negotiate an adjustment
of the bid price, including changes in the bid requirements, with the lowest
responsible bidder, in order to bring the low bid within the amount of
available funds.
   F.   Tie Bids: If two (2) or more of the bids received are for the same
total amount or list price, quality and service being equal, the Mayor or City
Clerk may negotiate with the bidders and obtain the best bid possible and/or
give a preference to a local bidder.
   G.   Single Bids: The Mayor or City Clerk may require a price or cost
analysis if only one bid is received. The bidder may be required to furnish a
detailed cost proposal, and the bid award shall be subject to subsequent
negotiation.
   H.   Bonds: Before entering a contract, the City shall have authority to
require performance, payment, or other bonds in such amounts as deemed
necessary to protect the interests of the City. The types and amounts of the
bonds to be required shall be described in the notice inviting bids.
   I.   Change Orders: Change orders which increase the contract price in an
amount up to ten percent (10%) of the contract amount may be approved by the
Mayor or City Clerk, as long as the overall project budget is not exceeded by
ten percent (10%) of the contract price, and provided further that the sum of
all change orders does not increase the contract price by more than ten percent
(10%) of the contract amount. Line item change orders may be approved by the
Mayor or City Clerk as long as the overall project budget is not exceeded by
more than ten percent (10%) of the contract price. (Ord. 21-03, 2-9-2021)
1-10-8: EXCEPTIONS TO BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise required by State or Federal law, the bid process requirements
set forth in Section
1-10-5 do not apply in the following situations.
   A.   Professional Service Contracts:
      1.   Professional services shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         a.   Auditing, architecture, banking, insurance, engineering,
appraisals, legal services, program management, and other consulting services.
Professional service contracts shall be awarded based on professional
qualifications, service ability, cost of service, and other criteria deemed
important by the City.
      2.   A professional services contract for the annual fiscal year
financial audit shall only be awarded by the City Council. This contract may be
awarded for multiple years. The performance of the auditing firm may be
reviewed periodically to determine whether to continue the contract or put it
back out to bid.
   B.   Contracts Not Suited To Competitive Bidding: Contracts, which by their
nature are not suited to award by competitive bidding, shall not be subject to
the competitive bidding requirements of Section 1-10-5. These contracts
include, but are not necessarily limited to:
      1.   Contracts for items which may only be purchased from a single or
sole source.
      2.   Contracts for additions to and repairs and maintenance of equipment
owned by the City which may be more efficiently added to, repaired or
maintained by a particular person or firm.
      3.   Contracts for equipment which, by reason of the training of City
personnel or the inventory of replacement parts maintained by the City, is more
compatible with the existing equipment owned by the City.
   C.   Cooperative Purchasing Agreements: The City shall have the power to
enter into joint or cooperative purchase agreements with any or all other
public agencies within the state or out of state for the purchase of any
commodity or service, whenever it is determined by the City Council to be in
the best interest of the City.
   D.   Auction, Closeout, Bankruptcy Sales: If the Mayor or City Clerk
determines that supplies, materials or equipment can be purchased at any public
auction, closeout sale, bankruptcy sale or other similar sale, and if the City
Finance Director or his/her City Clerk finds that a purchase at any such
auction or sale will be made at a cost below the market cost in the county, a
contract or contracts may be let, or the purchase made, without complying with
the competitive bidding requirements of this Chapter.
   E.   Surplus: The City may purchase items from the Utah Division of
Purchasing and General Services Surplus Property or other surplus property
agencies or clearinghouses.
   F.   Exchanges: Exchanges of supplies, material or equipment between the
City and any other public agency which are not by sale or auction shall be by
mutual agreement of the respective public agencies.
   G.   Projects Performed By City Employees: City employees may be used to
complete City projects, provided that the City complies with State statutory
requirements governing contracts for building improvements and public works
projects.
   H.   State Bid List: The City may purchase supplies from the vendor who has
submitted the lowest bid price for such items to the State of Utah Purchasing
Office at the quoted price, without any solicitation or price quotation or
invitation to bid. For such purposes, the quoted price shall be deemed to be
the lowest price available for such items and the City need not follow any
other bidding requirements.
   I.   Utah Correctional Industries Division: Goods and services produced by
the Utah Correctional Industries Division may be purchased from the Utah
Correctional Industries Division without following any of the bidding
requirements set forth herein.
   J.   Emergency Purchases: Notwithstanding any other section of this Chapter,
competitive bidding may be suspended in the event of an emergency when
supplies, services, and/or contracts are needed immediately in order to respond
to the emergency. A state of emergency must have been declared by the Mayor,
Public Safety Director, City Engineer, or Public Works Director, or their next
in command if they are not available. In order to suspend competitive bidding,
the emergency must require immediate action and/or response in order to protect
the life, health, or safety of persons or property, or, in the event of an
improvement bond forfeiture, the need to complete the bonded improvements in a
certain time frame, given all factors, including weather considerations.
   K.   Lack of Response: In cases where, despite the best efforts of City
employees to obtain three written bids, fewer than three written bids are
obtained, the lowest written bid obtained may be used. (Ord. 21-03, 2-9-2021)
1-10-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   It is unlawful:
      1.   For any bidder or prospective bidder, or any employee or officer
thereof, in restraint of freedom of competition or otherwise, by agreement with
any other person, bidder, or prospective bidder, to bid a fixed price, or to
"rotate" bidding practices among competitors.
      2.   For any person to offer or to give to any elected official, officer
or employee of the City or any member of his immediate family, any gift,
whether in the form of money, services, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, promise, or other form, under circumstances in which it could
reasonably be intended to influence him/her or could reasonably be expected to
influence him/her in his/her duties concerning the award of any contract or
order of purchase, or for any elected official, officer or employee to directly
or indirectly solicit or directly or indirectly accept any such gift for such
purpose.
      3.   For any elected official, officer or employee to disclose, in
advance of the opening of the bids, the content of any bid invited through the
formal competitive bidding procedure.
      4.   For any elected official, officer or employee to actively
participate in the awarding of a contract from which s/he will directly
benefit, without fully disclosing any interest s/he has therein.
      5.   For any elected official, officer or employee or other person to
appropriate for personal or private use any item of public property.
      6.   To purchase supplies or equipment for the personal use of any
elected official, officer or employee unless the item or items are required
parts of a worker's equipment and are necessary to the successful performance
of the duties of such official, officer or employee. Other personal purchases
shall not be permitted and will be cause for disciplinary action.
   B.   The following contracts are, in the discretion of the Mayor or his/her
City Clerk, voidable:
      1.   Contracts which result from a conflict of interest under this
Chapter or other applicable law.
      2.   Contracts awarded to a person or firm that tried to influence the
award of such contract by offering something of value to any elected official,
officer or employee.
   C.   A violation of this section by a City employee shall be cause for
disciplinary action. A violation of this section by an elected official shall
be malfeasance in office. (Ord. 21-03, 2-9-2021)
CHAPTER 11
CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Filing Of Disclosure Reports
1-11-3: Time Of Filing
1-11-4: Contents Of Statements
1-11-5: Statements Are Public Information
1-11-6: Penalty
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CANDIDATE: Any person who files a declaration of candidacy for an elective
office of the city; or is nominated by a committee or party; or received
contributions or made expenditures or consents to another person receiving
contributions or making expenditures with a view to bringing about such
person's nomination or election to such office; or causes on his behalf, any
written material or advertisement to be printed, published, broadcast,
distributed or disseminated which indicates an intention to seek such office.
CONTRIBUTION: Monetary and nonmonetary contributions such as in kind
contributions and contributions of tangible things, but shall not include
personal services provided without compensation by individuals volunteering
their time on behalf of a candidate.
ELECTION: Both primary and general elections.
EXPENDITURE: A purchase, payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or gift
of money, or anything of value, made for the purpose of influencing the
nomination or election of any candidate. (Ord. 01-10-9-12-A, 10-10-2001, eff.
10-10-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
1-11-2: FILING OF DISCLOSURE REPORTS:
Each candidate for elective offices shall file with the city recorder dated,
signed and sworn financial reports which comply with this chapter. (Ord. 01-10-
9-12-A, 10-10-2001, eff. 10-10-2001)
1-11-3: TIME OF FILING:
The reports required by the chapter shall be filed at least fourteen (14) days
before both the primary and general elections and at least once within two (2)
months following the general election. (Ord. 01-10-9-12-A, 10-10-2001, eff. 10-
10-2001)
1-11-4: CONTENTS OF STATEMENTS:
   A.   The statement filed fourteen (14) days before the election shall
include:
      1.   A list of each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
      2.   An aggregate total of all contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00) or
less received by the candidate; and
      3.   A list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the
campaign period, and the recipient of each expenditure.
   B.   The statement filed two (2) months after the election shall include:
      1.   A list of each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
received after the cutoff date for the statement filed fourteen (14) days
before the election, and the name of the donor;
      2.   An aggregate total of all contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00) or
less received by the candidate after the cutoff date for the statement filed
fourteen (14) days before the election; and
      3.   A list of all expenditures for political purposes made by the
candidate after the cutoff date for the statement filed fourteen (14) days
before the election, and the recipient of each expenditure. (Ord. 01-10-9-12-A,
10-10-2001, eff. 10-10-2001)
1-11-5: STATEMENTS ARE PUBLIC INFORMATION:
The statements required by this chapter shall be public documents and shall be
available for public inspection and copying during all regular city business
hours. (Ord. 01-10-9-12-A, 10-10-2001, eff. 10-10-2001)
1-11-6: PENALTY:
Any candidate who fails to comply with this chapter is guilty of an infraction
and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 01-10-9-12-A, 10-10-2001, eff. 10-10-2001; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 12
ELECTRONIC MEETINGS 1
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Electronic Meeting Requirements
1-12-3: Notice Of Electronic Meetings
1-12-4: Place Of Meeting
1-12-5: Meeting Facilities
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-5-4 of this title.
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
ANCHOR LOCATION: The physical location from which an electronic meeting
originates or the participants are connected.
ELECTRONIC MEETING: A public meeting convened or conducted by means of a
conference using electronic communications.
MONITOR: To hear or observe, live, by audio or video equipment, all of the
public statements of each member of the public body who is participating in a
meeting.
PARTICIPATE: The ability to communicate with all of the members of a public
body, either verbally or electronically, so that each member of the public body
can hear or observe the communication.
PUBLIC BODY: The city council or other official city body or commission that is
created by city ordinance or resolution and consists of two (2) or more persons
and expends, disburses or is supported by tax revenue and is vested with the
authority to make decisions regarding the public's business. (Ord. 08-13, 8-9-
2008)
1-12-2: ELECTRONIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS:
No meeting of a public body of the city may be convened and held as an
electronic meeting except on the following conditions:
   A.   A request for an electronic meeting has been made by a member of a
public body, to the city recorder, at least thirty (30) hours prior to the date
of the meeting to allow for arrangements to be made for the electronic meeting;
and
   B.   A quorum of the public body is present at a single anchor location for
the meeting; and
   C.   The public body has voted to approve the meeting to be held as an
electronic meeting; and
   D.   Notice of the electronic meeting has been given as provided herein.
(Ord. 08-13, 8-9-2008)
1-12-3: NOTICE OF ELECTRONIC MEETINGS:
The city recorder, upon receiving a request from a member of a public body for
a meeting to be convened as an electronic meeting, shall give public notice of
the meeting as required by Utah code section 52-4-202 of the Utah open and
public meetings act; and post written notice at the anchor location for the
meeting. The city recorder shall in addition to giving the public notice
required by Utah code section 52-4-202, provide notice of the electronic
meeting to the members of the public body at least twenty four (24) hours
before the meeting so that they may participate in and be counted as present
for all purposes, including the determination that a quorum is present. The
notice to the members of the public body shall give a description of how the
members will be connected to the electronic meeting. (Ord. 08-13, 8-9-2008)
1-12-4: PLACE OF MEETING:
The city recorder shall establish one or more anchor locations for the public
meeting, at least one of which shall be where public body would normally meet
if they were not holding an electronic meeting. (Ord. 08-13, 8-9-2008)
1-12-5: MEETING FACILITIES:
The city recorder shall see that space and facilities are provided at the
anchor location so that interested persons and the public may attend and
monitor the open portions of the meeting; and if the meeting includes a public
hearing, provide space and facilities at the anchor location so that interested
persons and the public may attend, monitor, and participate in the open
portions of the meeting. (Ord. 08-13, 8-9-2008)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Establishment; Composition; Appointment; Compensation
2-1-2: Term Of Office; Vacancies; Removal
2-1-3: Organization; Rules; Records
2-1-4: Quorum; Voting
2-1-5: Employees; Expenditures
2-1-6: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
Pursuant to authority granted in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9-201 et seq.,
as amended, the city council hereby creates a planning commission within and
for the city to be known as the Elk Ridge City planning commission. The
planning commission shall consist of five (5) members and one alternate member.
The regular and alternate members shall be appointed by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the city council from among the residents of the city.
The members shall be selected without respect to political affiliations and
shall serve without compensation except for reasonable expenses.
(Ord. 05-3, 2-22-2005, eff. 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 19-2, 3-12-2019)
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; REMOVAL:
   A.   Regular Members: The terms of appointment for regular members shall be
five (5) years and until their successors have been appointed. The terms of the
regular members first appointed following the adoption of the ordinance
codified herein shall be arranged such that the term of at least one member
shall expire each year. Appointments made thereafter shall be made for a full
five (5) year term.
   B.   Alternate Members: The term of appointment of alternate members shall
be for a period of up to one year and until their successors have been
appointed. The term of the alternate member shall expire on February 1 of the
year following their appointment.
   C.   Term Of Appointments: The terms of appointments shall become effective
immediately upon passage of a motion to appoint by the city council or at such
other time as may be specified in said motion, and shall expire on February 1
of the scheduled year of expiration. At the expiration of terms of regular
members of the planning commission, the mayor, with the advice and consent of
the city council, may choose to reappoint a member to another term. If the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, chooses not to
reappoint a regular member, the vacancy shall be filled by the alternate
member. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of terms
shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by the alternate
member. At the time the alternate member fills a vacancy, the city council
shall appoint a new alternate member.
   D.   Removal: Members may be removed after a public hearing by a majority
vote of the city council. (Ord. 05-3, 2-22-2005, eff. 3-22-2005)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION; RULES; RECORDS:
   A.   At the first meeting in February, the planning commission shall elect
from its membership a chairperson who shall serve for a term of one year. It
shall be the duty of the chairperson to preside over and conduct all meetings
of the planning commission. The chairperson, with the consent of the planning
commission, shall make such assignments and delegations to the members of the
commission and the staff and consultants as are deemed necessary or desirable
for the carrying out of the commission's business.
   B.   The commission may adopt rules for its own organization and for the
transaction of its business not in conflict with this chapter or other relevant
ordinances, and shall keep an accurate record of the disposition of all matters
coming before it. (Ord. 99-11-9-12, 11-9-1999, eff. 4-4-2000)
2-1-4: QUORUM; VOTING:
   A.   Quorum: A minimum of three (3) members in attendance at a meeting is
required to constitute a quorum. The minimum number of "yes" votes necessary to
carry an action of the planning commission shall be a majority of the members
of the quorum in attendance.
   B.   Voting; Alternate Members:
      1.   Regular members in attendance at a meeting shall be entitled to vote
on all matters coming before the commission. An alternate member in attendance
at a meeting shall be designated to sit as a voting member of the commission at
any time one or more regular members is absent from the meeting. The
designation of the alternate member to voting status shall be made by the chair
at the commencement of the meeting or at such other time as the number of
regular members is less than five (5), and shall be so noted in the minutes.
      2.   Once designated to voting status, an alternate member shall serve as
a voting member of the commission until the conclusion of the meeting. If
during the course of the meeting a regular member, not in attendance at the
time the alternate member was designated to sit as a voting member, shall
arrive, and the combined total of the regular members and the alternate member
designated to voting status exceeds five (5), the membership of the commission
shall, until the conclusion of the meeting, be expanded to the number of
regular members and the alternate member in attendance.
(Ord. 05-3, 2-22-2005, eff. 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 19-2, 3-12-2019)
2-1-5: EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES:
The planning commission may appoint such other employees and staff as it may
deem necessary for its work and may contract with city planners and other
consultants provided its expenditures, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the
amounts appropriated for that purpose by the city council. (Ord. 99-11-9-12,
11-9-1999, eff. 4-4-2000)
2-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it
to perform its functions and promote municipal planning as follows: (Ord. 99-
11-9-12, 11-9-1999, eff. 4-4-2000)
   A.   Preparation Of General Plan: It shall be the function and duty of the
planning commission to make and recommend to the legislative body a proposed
general plan as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9-302. The general
plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive and explanatory
matter, shall show the planning commission's recommendations for the physical
development of the city and may include among other things, the general
location and extent of streets and other methods of circulation and
transportation; the general location and extent of parks, playgrounds and
drainage facilities; and the use of land whether for residences, commerce,
industry, agriculture, flood channels or open space. (Ord. 99-11-9-12, 11-9-
1999, eff. 4-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Prepare Reports And Recommendations; Entry Upon Land: The planning
commission may make reports and recommendations relating to the plan and
development of the city to public officials and agencies, other organizations
and citizens. It may recommend to the executive or legislative officials,
programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. The planning
commission, its members and employees, in the performance of its functions, may
enter upon any land at reasonable times to make examinations and surveys and
place and maintain necessary monuments and markers thereon.
   C.   Regulations Governing Subdivision Of Land 1 : It shall be the duty of
the planning commission to prepare regulations governing the subdivision of
land within the city or amendment to such regulations and to submit said
regulations or amendments to the city council for public hearing and adoption.
(Ord. 99-11-9-12, 11-9-1999, eff. 4-4-2000)
   D.   Approve Subdivision Plans And Plats 2 : It shall be the duty of the
planning commission to review and make recommendation to the city council on
all subdivision developments. (Ord. 99-11-9-12, 11-9-1999, eff. 4-4-2000; amd.
2003 Code)
   E.   Prepare And Recommend Amendments To Zoning Regulations 3 :
      1.   The planning commission through its own initiative, may, or upon
receipt of a petition from an affected property owner, or by order of the city
council, shall make and certify to the city council recommendations for the
amendment of the zoning regulations and map.
      2.   No amendment to the text or map may be adopted by the city council
unless the planning commission has reviewed and made recommendations to the
council regarding the amendment. The planning commission shall have thirty (30)
days from the date the request is made to the chairperson to respond to any
request from the city council for recommendation.
   F.   Preparation Of Regulations Governing Condominium Developments: The
planning commission shall prepare regulations governing the approval,
construction and maintenance of condominium projects, or amendments to such
regulations and shall submit said regulations to the city council for adoption.
   G.   Review And Approval Of Condominium Projects: It shall be the duty of
the planning commission to review and approve all condominium projects. The
filing or recording of any record of survey map, declaration or other material
for condominium projects, without such approval, shall be null and void. The
approval by the planning commission shall be in addition to the approval from
the city council.
   H.   Preparation Of Capital Improvement Program: The planning commission
through its own initiative may, or by order of the city council shall, make and
recommend to the city council a capital improvement program which shall set
forth an orderly program for the acquisition of land, and/or the construction
of buildings, utilities and other facilities needed for city purposes.
   I.   Conduct Hearings And Meetings: The planning commission may conduct
hearings and meetings with interested property owners, officials and citizens
in the process of carrying out the functions and duties of their office. (Ord.
99-11-9-12, 11-9-1999, eff. 4-4-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-15A-2 of this code.
2 1. See also section
  10-15A-2 of this code.
3 2. See also section
  10-3-12 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Establishment Of An Appeal Authority
2-2-3: Term Of Office
2-2-4: Organization And Procedure
2-2-5: Duties And Powers
2-2-6: Appeals To The Appeal Authority
2-2-7: Variances
2-2-8: Interpretation Of Land Use Ordinance
2-2-9: District Court Review Of Appeal Authority Decisions
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPEAL AUTHORITY: The person appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent
of council to hear appeals from person(s) who have been affected by the
implementation of the land use ordinances.
LAND USE AUTHORITY: Anyone who has the authority to interpret or implement the
city ordinances as defined by the land use ordinance.
LAND USE ORDINANCE: The legislatively adopted document referred to as the
development code. (Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
2-2-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF AN APPEAL AUTHORITY:
There is hereby created an appeal authority to be appointed by the mayor with
the advice and consent of the city council. It is the intent of this
establishment to appoint a person or person(s) who will not personally benefit
from decisions associated with the interpretation of the ordinances of Elk
Ridge City. In establishing an appeal authority, the city council may:
   A.   Designate a separate appeal authority to hear requests for variances
other than the appeal authority it designates to hear appeals.
   B.   Designate one or more separate appeal authorities to hear distinct
types of appeals of land use authority decisions. (Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
2-2-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The appeal authority shall serve for a term of two (2) years. The term of
office shall commence February 1 in the year in which the appeal authority is
appointed. Any vacancy occurring of an appeal authority by reason of death,
resignation, removal or disqualification shall be filled in the same manner as
an original appointment for the expired term. The mayor may remove an appeal
authority for cause if written charges against the member are filed with the
mayor and after public hearing, if such hearing is requested by the member.
(Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
2-2-4: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   The appeal authority shall adopt rules consistent with this code for
its own organization and for the transaction of business.
   B.   Meetings of the appeal authority shall be held within ten (10) days
after an application has been filed.
   C.   All meetings shall be open to the public.
   D.   A decision of an appeal authority takes effect on the date when the
appeal authority issues a written decision, within a reasonable time period
thereafter, or as otherwise provided. A final decision shall be made within
sixty (60) days after an application has been filed. (Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
2-2-5: DUTIES AND POWERS:
   A.   The appeal authority shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To act in a quasi-judicial manner; and
      2.   To serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the interpretation
or the application of land use ordinances.
   B.   The appeal authority shall hear and decide on the following:
      1.   Requests for variances from the terms of the land use ordinances;
and
      2.   Appeals from decisions applying the land use ordinances.
   C.   The appeal authority may not entertain an appeal of a matter in which
the appeal authority, or any participating member, had first acted as the land
use authority. (Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
2-2-6: APPEALS TO THE APPEAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   As a condition precedent to judicial review, each adversely affected
person may timely specifically challenge a land use authority's decision.
   B.   The appeal authority shall determine the correctness of a decision of
the land use authority in its interpretation and application of a land use
ordinance.
   C.   Only those decisions in which a land use authority has applied a land
use ordinance to a particular application, person or parcel may be appealed to
an appeal authority.
   D.   For every appeal, the applicant shall present to an appeal authority
every theory of relief that it can raise in district court.
   E.   The city may not require an adversely affected party to pursue
duplicate or successive appeals before the same or separate appeal authorities
as a condition of the adversely affected party's duty to exhaust administrative
remedies.
   F.   The appeal authority shall conduct each appeal and variance request as
described by this chapter.
   G.   The appeal authority shall respect the due process rights of each of
the participants.
   H.   Land use decisions specified by the city council may be appealed
directly to the district court. (Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
2-2-7: VARIANCES:
   A.   Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the
requirements of a land use ordinance as applied to a parcel or property that he
owns, leases, or in which he holds some other beneficial interest may apply to
the applicable appeal authority for a variance from the terms of the ordinance.
      1.   The appeal authority may grant a variance only if:
         a.   Literal enforcement of the ordinance would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of the land use ordinances;
         b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
         c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zone;
         d.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and
will not be contrary to the public interest; and
         e.   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial
justice done.
   B.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A1a of this section, the
appeal authority may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged
hardship:
      1.   Is located on or associated with the property for which the variance
is sought; and
      2.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
   C.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A1a of this section, the
appeal authority may not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-
imposed or economic.
   D.   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached
to the property under subsection A1b of this section, the appeal authority may
find that special circumstances exist only if the special circumstances:
      1.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
      2.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same zone.
   E.   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   F.   Variances run with the land.
   G.   The appeal authority may not grant a use variance.
   H.   In granting a variance, the appeal authority may impose additional
requirements on the applicant that will:
      1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
      2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified. (Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
2-2-8: INTERPRETATION OF LAND USE ORDINANCE:
   A.   Any person alleging there was an error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the land use authority in the administration
or interpretation of the land use ordinance may request an interpretation and
decision from the appeal authority in accordance with section
2-2-4 of this chapter.
   B.   The appeal authority will grant a waiver to the decisions of the land
use authority procedural only as follows:
      1.   If the decision or requirement by the land use authority conflicts
with the intent or literal interpretation of the land use ordinances; or
      2.   If the decision or requirement by the land use authority conflicts
with state or local laws.
   C.   In some instances, the appeal authority may not fully understand the
intent of an ordinance or requirement placed upon any person(s) by the land use
authority. Under these circumstances the appeal authority may obtain a decision
from the city council prior to making a final decision (if applicable).
      1.   If the appeal authority requires an interpretation from the city
council, the appeal authority shall make a final decision within ten (10) days
after that interpretation is given. (Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
2-2-9: DISTRICT COURT REVIEW OF APPEAL AUTHORITY DECISIONS:
   A.   Any person or entity adversely affected by any decision of the appeal
authority may petition the district court for a review of the decision.
   B.   In the petition for review, the petitioner may only allege that there
was an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
land use authority in the administration or interpretation of the land use
ordinance.
   C.   The petition is barred unless it is filed within thirty (30) days after
the appeal authority's decision becomes effective.
   D.   The appeal authority shall transmit to the reviewing court the record
of its proceedings including its minutes, findings, orders, and, if available,
a true and correct transcript of its proceedings. If the proceeding was tape
recorded, a transcript of that tape recording is a true and correct transcript
for purposes of this subsection.
   E.   Review of the appeal authority's decision shall be done by the court in
the manner and upon the standards provided by law.
   F.   The appellant has the burden of proving that the land use authority
erred.
   G.   No person may challenge in district court the land use decision made
under this chapter, until that person has exhausted the person's administrative
remedies as provided in this chapter.
   H.   Any person adversely affected by a final decision made in the exercise
of or in violation of the provisions of this chapter may file a petition for
review of the decision with the district court within thirty (30) days after
the local land use decision is final. (Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Assessor And Collector
3-1-3: Business License Required; Penalty
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Fee For License
3-1-6: Payment Dates
3-1-7: Certificate Of License
3-1-8: Transfer Of License Prohibited
3-1-9: Branch Establishments
3-1-10: Joint Business Licenses
3-1-11: Reciprocal Recognition; Delivery Of Goods
3-1-12: Exemptions To License
3-1-13: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-1-14: Food Trucks
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title:
                                 Means and includes all activities engaged in
                                 within the city carried on for the purpose of
BUSINESS:                        gain or economic profit, except that the acts
                                 of employees rendering service to employers
                                 shall not be included in the term "business",
                                 unless otherwise specifically provided.
                                 Each separate establishment or place of
                                 operation, whether or not operating under the
                                 same name, within the city, including a home
                                 or other place of lodging if the same is held
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: out by advertisements, listings, or otherwise
                                 as the establishment or place of operation of
                                 a person engaging in the business of selling
                                 tangible, personal property at either retail
                                 or wholesale, or both, in the city.
                                 The operator or manager of a place of business
                                 and any persons employed in the operation of
EMPLOYEE:                        said place of business in any capacity and
                                 also any salesperson, agent, or independent
                                 contractor engaged in the operation of the
                                 place of business in any capacity.
                                 Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of
                                 tangible personal property at retail or
                                 wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
                                 property and the rendering of personal
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS:            services for others for a consideration by
                                 persons engaged in any profession, trade,
                                 craft, business, occupation, or other calling,
                                 except the rendering of personal services by
                                 and employee to his employer under any
                                 contract of personal employment.
FOOD TRUCK:                      A "Food Truck" as defined in Utah Code 11-56-
                                 102(3)
                                 Each separate location maintained or operated
PLACE OF BUSINESS:               by the licensee within the city from which
                                 business activity is conducted or transacted.
                                 A sale of tangible personal property by
                                 wholesalers to retail merchants, jobbers,
WHOLESALE:                       dealers, or other wholesalers for resale, and
                                 does not include a sale by wholesalers or
                                 retailers to users or consumers not for
                                 resale, except as otherwise specified.
                                 A person doing a regularly organized wholesale
                                 or jobbing business and selling to retail
WHOLESALER:                      merchants, jobber, dealers, or other
                                 wholesalers, for the purpose of resale. (Ord.
                                 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd.
                                 2003 Code)
 
3-1-2: LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
The city recorder is designated and appointed as ex officio assessor of license
fees for the city. Upon receipt of any application for a license, the city
recorder shall assess the amount due thereon and shall collect all license fees
based upon the rate established by resolution. He shall enforce all provisions
of this title, and shall cause to be filed complaints against all persons
violating any of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991,
eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTY:
It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, trade, profession, calling or to operate a vending, pinball or coin
operated machine without first receiving the class or type of license required
by the city. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All applications for license shall include:
      1.   The name of the person desiring a license.
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes.
      4.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number if the business calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure having such number.
      5.   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
   B.   Coin Operated Machine Or Device: In the event that the license
application relates to a coin operated machine or device, the application shall
identify the machine or device to which it applies and the location thereof.
(Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
3-1-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Fee Schedule: The business, location, trade, calling or profession of
every person engaged in a business in this municipality shall obtain a business
license in such amount as established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Interstate Commerce: None of the license fees provided for by this
section shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden on interstate commerce.
In any case, where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for
license to place an undue burden upon such commerce, he may apply to the
license assessor and collector for an adjustment of the fee so that it shall
not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to such commerce. Such
application may be made before, at or within six (6) months after payment of
the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting
testimony, show his method of business and the gross volume or estimated gross
volume of business and such other information as the license assessor and
collector may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden on such commerce. The license assessor and collector shall then
conduct an investigation, comparing applicant's business with other businesses
of like nature and shall make findings of fact from which he shall determine
whether the fee fixed by this section is discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair
as to applicant's business and shall recommend to the city council a license
fee for the applicant in an amount that is nondiscriminatory, reasonable and
fair, and if the city council is satisfied that such license fee is the amount
that the applicant should pay, it shall fix the license fee in such amount. If
the regular license fee has already been paid, the city council shall order a
refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the city council.
(Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code; amd. Ord. 20-05, -
-2020)
3-1-6: PAYMENT DATES:
All license fees shall be due and payable as follows, except as may be
otherwise provided:
   A.   Payable: Fees shall be payable on or before the date of issuance. The
annual license shall be valid for two (2) years from the date of issuance.
   B.   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee is not paid within thirty
(30) days of the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such
license fee shall be added to the original amount thereof. No license shall be
issued until all penalties legally assessed have been paid in full.
(Ord. 17-3, 1-10-2017; amd. Ord. 20-05, - -2020)
3-1-7: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All certificates of license shall be signed by the city
recorder, and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name: The name of the person to whom such certificate has been
issued.
      2.   Amount: The amount paid.
      3.   Type: The type of license and the class of such license, if licenses
are divided into classes.
      4.   Term: The term of the license with the commencing date and the date
of its expiration.
      5.   Location: The place where such business, calling, trade or
profession is to be conducted.
   B.   Display:
      1.   Required: Every certificate of license issued under this chapter
shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the
building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may be
easily seen. When such certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed
by the licensee from such place in which it had been posted, and no certificate
of license which is not in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted
upon the wall or any part of any room within the place of business. If the
licensee's business is such that a license cannot be displayed due to the
transient or mobile nature of the business, then the licensee shall carry the
license on his person, ready to be shown upon request by an authorized officer
during all such time or times while the licensee is engaged in or pursuing the
business for which such license was granted.
      2.   Coin Operated Machine: In the event the license is for a coin
operated machine or device, the certificate shall be attached or displayed in
the immediate vicinity of the machine for which it has been issued.
(Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. Ord. 20-05, - -2020)
3-1-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license granted or issued under any ordinance of the city shall be assigned
or transferred to any other person. It shall not be deemed to authorize any
person other than therein named to do business or to authorize any other
business, calling, trade or profession than is therein named, unless by
permission of the city council. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
3-1-9: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in the
city and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such
license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection
with or incident to a business licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed
to be separate places of business or branch establishments. (Ord. 91-5-22-11,
5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
3-1-10: JOINT BUSINESS LICENSES:
Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the city, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued one
license which shall specify on its face all such businesses. The license fee to
be paid shall be computed at the highest license fee applicable to any of the
businesses being conducted at such location. The sale of any other product or
service requiring an additional license shall be subject to such additional
licensing requirement. Where two (2) or more persons conduct separate
businesses at the same location, each such person shall obtain a license for
such business and pay the required license fee for such business. (Ord. 91-5-
22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-11: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION; DELIVERY OF GOODS:
   A.   Exceptions: No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle
or equipment in the city when:
      1.   Such vehicle is merely passing through the city.
      2.   Such vehicle is used exclusively in intercity or interstate
commerce.
   B.   Delivery Of Property: No license shall be required by this chapter of
any person whose only business activity in the city is the mere delivery in the
city of property sold by him at a regular place of business maintained by him
outside the city where:
      1.   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the Utah municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
city making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms, as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the city for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
city; and
      4.   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by the said
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C.   Certification Of Section: The city recorder shall, at the request of
any person, certify a copy of this section to any municipality or county of the
state to which a copy has not previously been certified. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-
22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
3-1-12: EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSE:
   A.   Tax Exempt Businesses: No license fee shall be imposed under section
3-1-5 of this chapter on any person engaged in business for solely religious,
charitable, eleemosynary or other types of strictly nonprofit purpose which is
tax exempt in such activities under the laws of the United States and the
state, nor shall any license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business
specifically exempted from municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the
United States or the state; nor shall any license fee be imposed upon any
person not maintaining a place of business within the city who has paid a like
or similar license tax or fee to some other taxing unit within the state and
which taxing unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by reciprocal agreement
or otherwise, businesses domiciled in the city and doing business in such
taxing unit.
   B.   Reciprocal Agreements With Other Agencies: The license assessor and
collector may, with approval of the city council, enter into reciprocal
agreements with the proper officials of other taxing units, as may be deemed
equitable and proper in effecting the exemption provided for in subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
3-1-13: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Unlawful Activities: Any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this code or of any ordinance of the city may be revoked and
any application denied by the city council because of:
      1.   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this code or any ordinance of the city.
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice To Licensee: Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of
an application to renew business license, the licensee or applicant shall be
given a notice which shall state in substance that the city council intends to
revoke the business license or deny the application to renew, together with the
reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the city council
(which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice
is sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied.
   C.   Not Applicable To Businesses Not Previously Licensed: The preceding
subsection shall not apply to applications for licenses for businesses which
have not previously been licensed by the city, and such applicants need only be
informed that their application has been denied. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991,
eff. 5-22-1991)
3-1-14: FOOD TRUCKS:
Purpose: To provide responsible companies who operate mobile food businesses
with clear and concise regulation to prevent hazards to safety, traffic, or
health, as well as to preserve the peace, safety and welfare of the community.
   A.   Licensing:
      1.   The city shall grant a business license to operate a food truck
within the city to a food truck business that has obtained a business license
to operate a food truck in another political subdivision within the state if
the food truck presents:
         a.   A current business license from the other political subdivision.
         b.   For each food truck that the food truck business operates:
            (1)   A current health department food truck permit from a local
health department with in the state; and
            (2)   A current approval of a political subdivision with in the
state that shows the food truck passed a fire safety inspection that the other
political subdivision conducted.
            (3)   Insurance requirements
            (4)   An annua license permit fee to operate within the city is
required as set through resolution by City Council per the city fee schedule.
      2.   No additional license qualification requirements will be imposed on
the food truck business before issuing a license to operate with the political
subdivision.
      3.   An application shall not be approved and no license shall be issued
or renewed to an applicant if a criminal background check, administrative
records search, or application materials uncover information showing either the
applicant or any driver has a record of any of the following:
         a.   A conviction within the past ten (10) years of driving under the
influence of drugs or alcohol; alcohol or drug related reckless driving,
impaired driving, driving with any measurable amount of a controlled substance
in the body, automobile homicide;
         b.   Any criminal conviction within the past ten (10) years for an
offense involving violence, theft, possession of controlled substances with the
intent to distribute to another person or any conviction for a crime of moral
turpitude; or
         c.   Misrepresentation of material facts in an application for a
business license.
   B.   Location of Operation:
      1.   Food Trucks or Food Trailers may operate on public property if:
         a.   The food vending vehicle is not parked within 20 feet of an
intersection.
         b.   A mobile food vendor may operate from legal parking spaces,
including metered spaces upon payment of appropriate fees, on the public right
of way.
         c.   When operating on public property, a mobile food vendor is
subject to the same parking rules, restrictions, and obligations that a
commercial vehicle would be subject to if not used by a mobile food vendor.
         d.   A resident may employ a food truck for a private even on their
property that is not open to the public. The truck cannot park on a public
right of way.
      2.   Food Trucks may not operate within any residential zone with the
exception of B1d above.
   C.   Operational Standards
      1.   Food Trucks and Food Trailers operating in the Right-of-Way must
comply with all applicable parking and traffic regulations. No operation shall
extend into the vehicle travel or bicycle lanes.
      2.   Food Truck or Food Trailers operating in the Right-of-Way must
orient the vending window to face away from the Right-of-way.
      3.   Food Trucks or Food Trailers shall be constructed in a way that they
may be easily removed on a daily basis and shall not be left overnight or
stored on the subject property or Right-of-Way. The city reserves the right to
determine the location and times the food trucks may operate within the city.
      4.   Trash Receptacles. All Food Trucks or Food Trailers shall provide
sufficient trash receptacles meeting Utah County Health Department standards.
Trash containers shall be provided for use of their patrons. The trash
receptacles shall be removed with the Food Truck or Food Trailer on a daily
basis. All materials generated from the business must be disposed of properly.
      5.   All Food Trucks and Food Trailers are required to clean the area
within a twenty-five (25) foot radius on a daily basis.
      6.   All food trucks or Food Trailers are required to comply with Utah
County Health Department regulations.
      7.   Hours of Operation. All activity related to Food Trucks or Food
Trailers shall be temporary. Food Truck or Food Trailer operation shall not
exceed eighteen (18) hours within a twenty-four (24) hour period at any one
location.
      8.   Business operations shall not create any public nuisance, including:
(1) noises audible from within an enclosed vehicle or from within an enclosed
building; (2) accumulation of litter; (3) obstruction of pedestrian and vehicle
access or travel areas; (4) any violation of City, County, or State
Regulations.
      9.   Failure to comply with the requirements of this Chapter shall be
grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of a business license.
      10.   No Mobile Food Vendor license shall be valid within 2,000 feet of
the perimeter of the parcel of property of a City sanctioned event, including
but not limited to the following events, as determined by the City
Administration: Elk Ridge City Celebration.
      11.   It shall be unlawful for any mobile food business to operate
adjacent to or in a public park without the prior written consent of the City
Administration. (Ord. 22-05, 6-23-2022)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Sale Of Beer Prohibited
3-2-1: SALE OF BEER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter or distribute for profit,
beer in this municipality. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Title
3-3A-2: Purpose
3-3A-3: Effective Date
3-3A-4: Tax Imposed
3-3A-5: Penalty
3-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as THE SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF ELK RIDGE
CITY. (Ord. 90-2-13-2, 2-13-1990)
3-3A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of Tax: The forty eighth session of the Utah legislature
authorized the counties and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use
tax ordinances imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   Tax Established: It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales
and use tax of the city to conform to the requirements of the sales and use tax
act, Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 90-
2-13-2, 2-13-1990)
3-3A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 90-2-13-2, 2-13-1990)
3-3A-4: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the city at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the city of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purposes of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of state designation. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the
state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities are rendered, but the place of
sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the city
shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate
formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   B.   Adoption Of State Codes; Provisions:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, insofar as
they relate to sales taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof,
are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth
herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in subsection B of
this section shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city
for the word "state" when the word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name
of the city be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the state
tax commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
90-2-13-2, 2-13-1990)
3-3A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 90-2-13-2, 2-13-1990; amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Purpose
3-3B-2: Definitions
3-3B-3: Tax Imposed
3-3B-4: Exemptions To Tax
3-3B-5: Existing Franchise Agreements
3-3B-6: Contract With State Tax Commission
3-3B-7: State Statutes Incorporated
3-3B-8: Additional License Or Reporting Not Required
3-3B-9: Effective Date Of Levy
3-3B-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of the city to adopt the municipal energy sales and use tax
pursuant to and in conformance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-301 et
seq., the municipal energy sales and use tax act. (Ord. 97-6-24-7, 6-24-1997)
3-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: A. A fee:
      1.   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2.   That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   1. A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
      2.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE: A. The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for
sale or use in the city and includes:
      1.   The value of the energy itself; and
      2.   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service
charges or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable
form to each class of customer in the city.
   B.   Delivered value does not include the amount of a tax paid under Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1 or part 2, or this article.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimis amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the state tax commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX: A. A franchise tax.
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combinations of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this state,
any county, city, municipality, district, or other local governmental entity of
the state, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in this city for any
purpose, except sales in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE: A. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   "Use" does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord. 97-
6-24-7, 6-24-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
3-3B-3: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the city equaling six percent
(6%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax
shall be known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   Calculation: The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the
taxable energy to the consumer.
   B.   Additional Tax: The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on
taxable energy imposed by the city as authorized by Utah Code Annotated title
59, chapter 12, part 2, the local sales and use tax act. (Ord. 97-6-24-7, 6-24-
1997)
3-3B-4: EXEMPTIONS TO TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b);
notwithstanding an exemption granted under Utah Code Annotated section 59-1-
104.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel and special fuels subject
to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States constitution or the Utah constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4.   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or as
a fuel subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
city.
   C.   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt
from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this article, provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3; and
      2.   The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this article, if the
tax due under this article exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(Ord. 97-6-24-7, 6-24-1997)
3-3B-5: EXISTING FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS:
   A.   No Alteration: This article shall not alter any existing franchise
agreements between the city and energy suppliers.
   B.   Credit Against Tax Due: There is a credit against the tax due from any
consumer in the amount of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the city
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 97-6-24-7, 6-
24-1997)
3-3B-6: CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   Required; Authority Of Mayor: On or before the effective date hereof,
the city shall contract with the state tax commission to perform all functions
incident to the administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and
use tax, in accordance with this article. The mayor, city council and city
attorney are hereby authorized to enter into agreements with the state tax
commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and operation
of the municipal energy sales and use tax ordinance enacted by this article.
   B.   Monthly Payments By Supplier; Conditions: An energy supplier shall pay
the municipal energy sales and use tax revenues collected from consumers
directly to the city monthly if:
      1.   The city is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a. The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   Deduction Of Franchise Fees: An energy supplier paying the municipal
energy sales and use tax directly to the city may deduct any contractual
franchise fees collected by the energy supplier qualifying as a credit and
remit the net tax less any amount the energy supplier retains as authorized by
Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-307(4). (Ord. 97-6-24-7, 6-24-1997)
3-3B-7: STATE STATUTES INCORPORATED:
   A.   Specified; Exemptions: Except as herein provided, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10,
chapter 1, part 3, municipal energy sales and use tax act, as well as this
article, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
part 1, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date hereof,
insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and
59-12-119 thereof, and excepting for the amount of the sales and use taxes
levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as if fully
set forth herein.
   B.   Substitution Of Terms: Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state is named or
referred to as the "taxing agency", the name of the city shall be substituted,
insofar as is necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as Utah Code
Annotated title 10, chapter 1, part 3, as amended. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the city be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of such a
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
   C.   Amendments: Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, which would be applicable to the city for the
purposes of carrying out this article are hereby incorporated herein by
reference and shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a
Utah statute. (Ord. 97-6-24-7, 6-24-1997)
3-3B-8: ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING NOT REQUIRED:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord.
97-6-24-7, 6-24-1997)
3-3B-9: EFFECTIVE DATE OF LEVY:
This article is effective June 30, 1997. The municipal energy sales and use tax
shall be levied beginning one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., July 1,
1997. (Ord. 97-6-24-7, 6-24-1997)
ARTICLE C. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Levy Of Tax
3-3C-3: Rate
3-3C-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption Therefrom
3-3C-5: Effective Date
3-3C-6: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of The Tax
3-3C-7: Interlocal Agreement For Collection Of The Tax
3-3C-8: Procedures For Taxes Erroneously Recovered From Customers
3-3C-9: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
CUSTOMER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, the person who
is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to pay for
telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this article, "customer" means:
      1.   The person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received
under the contract; or
      2.   If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1.   Of telecommunications service; or
      2.   For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER: A. The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MUNICIPALITY: Those gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the
municipality for the purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah code title 59,
chapter 12, sales and use tax act and determined in accordance with Utah code
section 59-12-207.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee, or charge:
      1.   Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2.   Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the transaction
with the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3.   Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under title 59, chapter 12, sales and use tax act; or
   C.   Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
MUNICIPALITY: Elk Ridge City.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE: A. For telecommunications service other than mobile
telecommunications service, means the street address representative of where
the customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which
shall be:
      1.   The residential street address of the customer; or
      2.   The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection A is known, the location
of the telecommunications equipment:
      1.   To which a call is charged; and
      2.   From which the call originates or terminates;
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection B is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1.   The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2.   If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this
definition, a person that:
      1.   Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications service;
or
      2.   Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
      1.   That person; or
      2.   The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates, or manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined
in Utah code section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A. Telephone service, as defined in Utah code
section 59-12-102, other than mobile telecommunications service, that
originates and terminates within the boundaries of this state; and
   B.   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah code section 59-
12-102:
      1.   That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state;
and
      2.   Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications
sourcing act, 4 USC section 116 et seq. (Ord. 04-4, 5-25-2004)
3-3C-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to this municipality. (Ord.
04-4, 5-25-2004)
3-3C-3: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be four percent (4%) of the telecommunication
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the municipality. If the location of a transaction is determined to be other
than this municipality then the rate imposed on the gross receipts for
telecommunications services shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of
Utah code section 10-1-407. (Ord. 04-4, 5-25-2004)
3-3C-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION THEREFROM:
This rate of this levy shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunication service
attributed to the municipality unless a higher rate is approved by a majority
vote of the voters in this municipality that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 04-4, 5-25-2004)
3-3C-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This tax shall be levied beginning July 1, 2004. (Ord. 04-4, 5-25-2004)
3-3C-6: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF THE TAX:
This article is subject to the requirements of Utah code section 10-1-403. If
the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate notice
shall be given as provided in Utah code section 10-1-403. (Ord. 04-4, 5-25-
2004)
3-3C-7: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION OF THE TAX:
On or before the effective date hereof, the municipality shall enter into the
uniform interlocal agreement with the commission as described in Utah code
section 10-1-405 for the collection, enforcement, and administration of this
municipal telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 04-4, 5-25-2004)
3-3C-8: PROCEDURES FOR TAXES ERRONEOUSLY RECOVERED FROM CUSTOMERS:
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah code section 10-1-408, a customer may not
bring a cause of action against a telecommunications provider on the basis that
the telecommunications provider erroneously recovered from the customer the
municipal telecommunication license tax except as provided in Utah code section
10-1-408. (Ord. 04-4, 5-25-2004)
3-3C-9: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
Any tax or fee previously enacted by this municipality under authority of Utah
code section 10-1-203 or Utah code title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of
utilities limitation is hereby repealed.
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal ordinance
or fee which provides that the municipality may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the municipality caused by
the activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the
municipality, if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah code section 72-7-
102 and is not related to the municipality's loss of use of a highway as a
result of the activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way,
or increased deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way nor does this article limit the
municipality's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to
the municipal telecommunications license tax under this article and locate
telecommunications facilities, as defined in Utah code section 72-7-108, in
this municipality. (Ord. 04-4, 5-25-2004)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Application For License
3-4-4: Fees
3-4-5: Licenses And Badges
3-4-6: Notice Of Revocation
3-4-7: Revocation After Hearing
3-4-8: Appeal
3-4-9: Additional Requirements
3-4-10: Exceptions
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR: Any individual whether or not a resident of the city,
traveling either by foot, wagon, motor vehicle or other type of conveyance from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise,
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale, or whether
he is collecting advance payments on such sales; provided, that such definition
shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person, firm or
corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent,
railroad boxcar, hotel or motel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any
other place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking orders for future delivery.
PEDDLER: Shall include any person, whether or not a resident of the city
traveling by foot, wagon, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying,
conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables,
fruits, garden truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the
same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who,
without traveling from place to place, shall see or offer the same for sale
from a wagon, motor vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance; and
further provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction
makes deliveries to purchasers as part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a peddler subject to the provisions
of this chapter. The word "peddler" shall include the words "hawker" and
"huckster".
TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT OR ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person, firm or
corporation, whether as owner, agent, cosignee or employee, whether or not a
resident of the city, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and who in furtherance
of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public room in any hotel, motel, lodging house,
apartment, shop or any street, alley, or other place within the city, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or a
public auction. The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be
relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer,
or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or
in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. (Ord. 91-5-22-
11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for:
   A.   Transient Merchant, Itinerant Merchant Or Vendor: A transient merchant,
itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor to engage in such business without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Peddler: Any person to engage in the business of peddler without first
obtaining a license therefor as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Solicitor Or Canvasser: Any solicitor or canvasser to engage in such
business without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd.
2003 Code)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applicants for licenses under this chapter shall file a sworn application in
writing signed by the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a
partnership, and by the president if a corporation, or by an agent, including a
state or regional agent, with the city recorder, which shall give the following
information:
   A.   The name of the applicant and, if the applicant is an employee or agent
of a corporation, the name of the corporation.
   B.   The address of the applicant and, if the applicant is an agent or
employee of a corporation, the address of the corporation.
   C.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and from whom or where the applicant obtains the goods to be sold.
   D.   If the applicant is employed by or an agent of another person, the name
and permanent address of such other person.
   E.   The length of time for which the applicant desires to engage in
business within the city.
   F.   The places within the city where the applicant proposes to carry on his
or her business.
   G.   A list of the other municipalities in which the applicant has engaged
in business within the six (6) month period preceding the date of the
application.
   H.   A photograph of the applicant, taken within six (6) months immediately
prior to the date of filing the application, which photograph shall be two
inches by two inches (2" x 2"), showing the head and shoulders of the applicant
in a clear and distinguishing manner.
   I.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant, or any of his employers
have been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal
ordinance, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor.
   J.   If the applicant desires to sell fresh vegetables, fruits, meats or
other foodstuffs, a statement by a reputable physician of the state, dated not
more than ten (10) days prior to submission of the application, certifying the
applicant to be free of infectious, contagious or communicable diseases.
   K.   If the applicant is employed by another person, documents showing that
the person for which the applicant proposes to do business is authorized to do
business within the state. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd.
2003 Code)
3-4-4: FEES:
   A.   Established: The license fee which shall be charged by the city
recorder for any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be in such
amount as established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Interstate Commerce: None of the license fees provided for by this
section shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden on interstate commerce.
In any case, where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for
license to place an undue burden upon such commerce, the applicant may apply to
the license assessor and collector for an adjustment of the fee so that it
shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to such commerce. Such
application may be made before, at or within six (6) months after payment of
the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting
testimony, show his method of business and the gross volume or estimated gross
volume of business and such other information as the license assessor and
collector may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden on such commerce. The license assessor and collector shall then
conduct an investigation, comparing applicant's business with other businesses
of like nature and shall make findings of fact from which he shall determine
whether the fee fixed by this section is discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair
as to applicant's business and shall recommend to the city council a license
fee for the applicant in an amount that is nondiscriminatory, reasonable and
fair, and if the city council is satisfied that such license fee is the amount
that the applicant should pay, it shall fix the license fee in such amount. If
the regular license fee has already been paid, the city council shall order a
refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the city council. (Ord.
91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
3-4-5: LICENSES AND BADGES:
   A.   Issuance: The city recorder shall issue to each licensee at the time of
delivery of his license, a badge which shall contain the words "licensed
solicitor", "licensed transient merchant", or "licensed peddler", as the case
may be, for which the application was made and the license issued, and the
number of the license, in letters and figures easily discernible from a
distance of five feet (5'). Such badge shall, during the time peddlers or
solicitors are engaged in the business for which they are licensed, be worn
constantly by them on the front of their outer garment in such a way as to be
conspicuous.
   B.   Exhibit License: Any person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall
exhibit such license at the request of any citizen of the city. (Ord. 91-5-22-
11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
   C.   Produce License Upon Request: It shall be the duty of any law
enforcement official to require any person seen soliciting, canvassing or
peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, to produce
his or her license and to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 91-5-
22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Expiration Of License: All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter
shall expire on the date specified on the license. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991,
eff. 5-22-1991)
3-4-6: NOTICE OF REVOCATION:
Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing,
setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place of
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at his
last known address or at the address shown on his application. The hearing and
notice shall in all other aspects substantially comply with section
3-1-13 of this title. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
3-4-7: REVOCATION AFTER HEARING 1 :
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the city law
enforcement agency or the city recorder, after notice and hearing, for any of
the following causes: (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003
Code)
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement contained in the
application for the license.
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation for false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as solicitor, canvasser, peddler or itinerant
merchant.
   C.   Any violation of this chapter.
   D.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
   E.   Conducting the business of a solicitor, canvasser, peddler or itinerant
merchant in an unlawful manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  3-1-13 of this title.
3-4-8: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the city's law enforcement or the city
recorder in the denial of a license issued pursuant to this chapter, or by the
action of the city council, may file an appeal. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing with the city council within fourteen (14) days after notice of the
action complained of has been mailed to such person's last known address or
address on the business application, a written statement setting forth fully
the grounds for the appeal. A time and place for the hearing on such appeal and
notice of such hearing shall be set and given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided in section
3-4-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003
Code)
3-4-9: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
This chapter shall not be construed so as to waive the provisions and
requirements of any other ordinance of the city and the requirements and fees
required herein shall be in addition to any other requirements and fees of any
other ordinance of the city. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
3-4-10: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any individual who is, at the
time he is engaged in any activity which would otherwise require licensing by
this chapter, engaged in an activity which is authorized by any church or
charity which has a permanent structure located within the state, provided such
church or charity has had such permanent structure for at least six (6) months
prior to the date when the individual engaged in the activity would otherwise
require licensing by this chapter. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
CHAPTER 5
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Requirements
3-5-3: Registration To Engage In Business; Fee
3-5-4: Regulations
3-5-5: Records Maintained; Inspection
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm, copartnership, corporation, association or other
organization, or any combination thereof, who for a fixed sum, price, fee,
percentage or other compensation other than wages, undertakes any building,
highway, road, railroad, excavation or other structure, project, development,
or improvement, other than to personalty, or any part thereof; provided, that
the term "contractor", as used in this chapter, shall include anyone who builds
more than one structure on his own property during any one year for the purpose
of sale and shall include subcontractors, but shall not include anyone who
merely furnishes materials or supplies without fabricating the same into, or
consuming the same in the performance of the work of the "contractors", as
herein defined.
TYPES OF CONTRACTORS: As an illustrative list of contractors subject to the
provisions of this chapter, but not in limitation thereof, the following
occupations are subject to this chapter: general contractors, specialty
contractors of all kinds, such as, but not limited to, those engaged in the
business of installing, repairing or otherwise performing services in
connection with: acoustical tile and roof decking; awnings, storm doors and
windows; air conditioning, dry heating, sheet metal; boilers, steam fitting;
carpentry; cement and concrete; ceramic tile; cabinet and millwork; composition
floor, countertops, tile; carpet; drywall; elevator installation; electrical;
excavating and grading; fencing; floor coverings; fire prevention (structural);
furnaces and burners; glazing; industrial piping; iron and bronze (ornamental);
insulation; landscaping; lathing; lawn sprinklers; masonry; mosaic tile and
terazzo; overhead doors; painting and paper hanging; pest control (structural);
plastering; plumbing and wet heating; roofing and siding; swimming pool; signs,
stone masonry; sewer installation; steel reinforcing and erection; tanks
(structural); waterproofing; weather stripping; welding; wrecking and
demolition; wood floor laying and finishing. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff.
5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
3-5-2: REQUIREMENTS:
Any person desiring to engage in business as a contractor within the corporate
limits of the city must comply with the two (2) following requirements:
   A.   Registration: Prior to engaging in any subject business activity during
any calendar year, he must register for the calendar year as a contractor by
completing and filing a registration form in the office of the city recorder.
   B.   State License: Any person engaged in the construction trades or as a
contractor must be licensed by the state and by the local jurisdiction in which
the licensee has its principal place of business. The state or any political
subdivision of the state shall not require any additional licenses of a
licensee to engage in any activity required under this chapter. (Ord. 91-5-22-
11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
3-5-3: REGISTRATION TO ENGAGE IN BUSINESS; FEE:
   A.   Form; Information Requested: Any person desiring to engage in business
as a contractor shall complete and file in the office of the city recorder a
registration form provided to him by the city which shall show:
      1.   The name of the contractor.
      2.   The address and telephone number of the contractor.
      3.   The type of organization, e.g., corporation, partnership or sole
proprietor.
      4.   If a partnership or a corporation or other artificial person, the
name, address and telephone number of the person responsible for the functions
of the organization:
         a.   Whether or not licensed under the contractor's license law of the
state; if so, the license number of the contractor.
         b.   Type of business in which registrant seeks to engage, e.g.,
general contractor or one of the specialty contractors.
         c.   Such other information as the city council may by regulation
require. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
   B.   Annual Fee: Any person seeking to register for the privilege of doing
business as a contractor within the limits of the city for any calendar year,
or any part thereof, shall pay an annual registration fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991,
eff. 5-22-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
3-5-4: REGULATIONS:
The city council may adopt such regulations as in its opinion are necessary to
implement this chapter and the objectives thereof. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-1991,
eff. 5-22-1991)
3-5-5: RECORDS MAINTAINED; INSPECTION:
All persons registered pursuant to this chapter for the privilege of doing
business as contractors, and all persons who engage in doing business as
contractors, shall maintain records of all services performed by them as
contractors within the corporate limits of the city. The records shall disclose
the person for whom the services are performed and the contract price or charge
made for the services and such other information as the city council may, by
regulation, require. The persons shall maintain such records at their office or
principal place of business and shall permit officials or agents of the city to
inspect said records for the purpose of determining whether or not said persons
have complied with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 91-5-22-11, 5-22-
1991, eff. 5-22-1991)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Administration
4-1-2: Employment Qualifications And Standards
4-1-3: Command And Control
4-1-4: Duties Of Officials
4-1-5: Training
4-1-6: Clothing, Equipment And Vehicles
4-1-7: Responding To Emergencies
4-1-8: Reports
4-1-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Policy Compliance: All members shall familiarize themselves with, and
conform to, the rules and regulations, policies, procedures and orders of the
fire department and the city as they affect their duties and the operation of
the fire department.
   B.   Violation Of Order: Violation of any rule, regulation, policy, and/or
order of the city or verbal order of an officer shall be reported through
proper channels to the fire chief and/or assistant chief for proper action.
Violation will be punishable by admonishment, reprimand, suspension or
dismissal as outlined in the city personnel policy.
   C.   Reporting Issues Of Concern: All members shall notify the fire chief
promptly concerning any and all matters brought to their attention which may
affect the interest and welfare of the department. When a question of
interpretation of any rule, regulation, order or policy arises, it shall be
submitted to the fire chief or assistant chief. A ruling will then be made by
appropriate authorities for review with the director of public safety.
   D.   Mutual Aid Request: Request for mutual aid will be made only by the
director of public safety, fire chief, assistant chief or officer in charge at
the scene. In the event of a request for mutual aid to our city, one volunteer
of this department will be assigned to each responding unit to coordinate its
use as needed at the scene. The public shall be kept away from close proximity
of a fire scene and will not be used for any firefighting activities.
   E.   Smoking Prohibited: There shall be no smoking in fire vehicles, nor
shall there be smoking in the fire station, nor at the scene of any accident or
fire call.
   F.   Use Of Alcohol And Drugs: No member shall report for, or be on duty, or
drive a city vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, drugs or compounds,
including those prescribed by a licensed physician, that will in any way
adversely affect alertness, coordination, reaction, response or safety. The use
of alcoholic beverages, intoxicants, narcotics, marijuana, or controlled
substances by volunteers subject to duty, when on duty, on a call, or on city
property, is hereby prohibited.
   G.   Public Statements: Information relative to the affairs of the
department shall only be furnished to personnel connected with the public
safety department, mayor or city council member over the fire department.
Volunteers are not authorized to make statements to the news media or general
public concerning any emergency responded to by the department. Information
required at the scene will be dispensed by the officer in charge. News
releases, public statements or statistical information, or similar information
concerning department affairs and activities, shall be handled by the fire
chief, mayor, city council member or city attorney.
   H.   Salaries And Wages: Compensation for employees shall be as established
by the city council. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-2: EMPLOYMENT QUALIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Conduct: In matters of general conduct, volunteers shall be governed by
these rules and regulations and by ordinary and reasonable rules of behavior,
and shall commit no act tending to bring discredit upon the department or its
volunteers. No volunteer shall conduct himself/herself in a manner that may be
taken as to be unbecoming of a firefighter. No volunteer shall gossip, spread
rumors or do anything by work or action to cause unrest or dissension among
volunteers of the department concerning any volunteers' personal character or
conduct. All complaints shall be brought before the chief or assistant chief
for review. No volunteer shall use obscene, uncivil or boisterous language, or
engage in an altercation or fight at the scene or at any place where the
department is present. All volunteers shall treat the public with courtesy and
respect at all times.
   B.   Driver's License: All members shall possess a valid driver's license,
issued by the department of motor vehicles of the state.
   C.   Performance: All volunteers shall perform, to the best of their
ability, any tasks or activities that are necessary to maintain, protect or
improve the station, equipment or facilities controlled by the department, as
well as carry out the policies and responsibilities of the department. All
recommendations shall be forwarded to the fire chief, then to the city council
member over the fire department, then to the mayor. All volunteers will be
evaluated on a continual basis pertaining to the performance of their duties.
   D.   Personal Gain, Gifts And Department Property: No volunteer shall use
the uniform, badge, ID card or prestige of the department for the purpose of
personal gain. No volunteer shall lend, give away or appropriate for his/her
own use, any department property. All volunteers shall comply with personnel
policies. No volunteer shall accept a reward, fee or gift from any person for
services incident to the performance of his/her duty as a volunteer of the fire
department.
   E.   Applicants: All applications for membership in the fire department
shall be in writing and shall be filed with the city recorder. All applications
are referred to the fire chief and assistant fire chief for review. Upon final
selection of an applicant, a personnel action form must be completed and
signed. The city is an equal opportunity employer. No person shall be
disqualified upon the basis of race, color, national origin, gender, age or
handicap. An applicant, when selected for employment, will be required to pass
a physical fitness test and medical examination, as directed by the city.
   F.   Residency Requirement: Applicants are not required to be residents of
the city. Volunteers making application for employment in the fire department
must reside within a five (5) minute response time radius of the fire station.
Upon moving outside this response time, personnel will immediately notify the
chief and submit resignation to the department.
   G.   Safety: All personnel of the fire department will comply with city
personnel, safety and health policies.
   H.   Discipline: All discipline shall be handled in accordance with the city
personnel policies. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996)
4-1-3: COMMAND AND CONTROL:
   A.   Chain Of Command: Under the direction of the mayor or city council
member over the fire department, the fire chief is responsible and in charge of
all functions of the fire department, both at the scene and at the station. In
his/her absence, the assistant chief shall take command. The chief shall report
to the city council member over the fire department or in the member's absence,
the mayor.
   B.   Appointment And Terms: Appointment and removal of the fire chief shall
be by the mayor with the advice and approval vote of the city council.
Recommendations of appointment and removal of other officers and firefighters
shall be made by the fire chief to the city council member over the fire
department, and mayor's final approval.
   C.   Chain Of Command At Scene: In the event the chief or assistant chief is
not available at the scene of a fire, the following chain of command will take
precedence: training officer, chief engineer, captain, senior volunteer of
department. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996)
4-1-4: DUTIES OF OFFICIALS:
   A.   Fire Chief:
      1.   Plans and organizes activities of the department with respect to
utilization of personnel and equipment in fire prevention, investigation and
training, fire suppression operations and general execution.
      2.   Resolves problems and reviews all reports, including attendance
reports on fires and training. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996)
      3.   Reviews purchases and proposed purchases for the fire department up
to one hundred dollars ($100.00). Makes sure that purchases over one hundred
dollars ($100.00) to five hundred dollars ($500.00) are approved by the city
council member over the fire department or mayor. Makes sure that purchases
over five hundred dollars ($500.00) are presented to the council member over
the fire department or mayor and are then approved by the city council before
the expenditure is made 1 . (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Takes command at fires or other emergency scenes at own discretion
as indicated by their seriousness, makes recommendations to the city council
member over the fire department, mayor and city council for additional fire
suppression facilities and equipment for long range planning.
      5.   Develops and supervises the preparation of annual budget requests of
the department, reviews personnel performance reports, reviews summaries of
training.
      6.   Enforces all policies and regulations of the fire department.
      7.   Reviews all applications for employment and makes recommendations to
the council member over the fire department, and mayor for appointment and
removal of personnel.
      8.   Directs and advises on the activities of the community emergency
response team (CERT) when required.
   B.   Assistant Chief:
      1.   Assists chief in direction and control of firefighters; under the
direction of the chief, directs the laying of hose lines, operation of pumps
and hydrants; utilizes personnel under his/her supervision in performing
actions to suppress fire.
      2.   Participates in salvage operations and post fire investigations,
ensures firefighting equipment is maintained and cleaned after each use; takes
charge whenever the chief is absent and assumes all duties of the chief.
      3.   Assists chief in planning fire prevention and guidance to schools,
organizations and general public within the fire district.
      4.   Assists chief in preparing and monitoring department budget.
   C.   Training Officer:
      1.   Responsible for scheduling all department training, to include
special training and/or guest speakers. Prepares and coordinates training and
captains. Keeps all training records for department. Prepares performance
testing for all personnel and administers same for documentation of training
and status of personnel. Assists chief in testing personnel for certification.
      2.   If first on fire scene, takes command of incident until relieved by
chief or assistant chief.
      3.   Has administrative assignments from the chief, such as fire
prevention, inspections, training, personnel, equipment, publicity, and
buildings and grounds.
      4.   Responsible for training all personnel assigned on department
organizational chart, and assistant training officer in documenting personnel
records on training conducted.
      5.   Administrative assignments for captains:
         a.   Fire prevention; captain assigned will plan, organize and
administer an ongoing fire prevention program to include ordering materials,
visiting schools and putting on fire prevention programs for school students,
civic groups and general public.
         b.   Inspections; captain assigned will assist the building inspector
or zoning administrator on inspections when requested for inspection on home
business applications. All requests for fire safety inspections will come
through the city direct to the captain, who will assign inspectors from the
department. A written copy on inspection report will be furnished to the fire
chief upon completion.
         c.   Training; captain assigned will work directly with department
training officer. Will have responsibility of reviewing and formulating yearly
training plans, scheduling of training drills and utilization of personnel for
maximum use of training resources and time.
         d.   Volunteer equipment; captain assigned has responsibility of
making sure all equipment issued to fire department personnel is in serviceable
condition at all times. Conducts periodic inventory of all volunteer equipment
and replaces when necessary. Maintains SCBAs, batteries and pagers in
serviceable condition. Ensures new personnel has full issue of personal
equipment as soon as possible upon joining department.
         e.   Publicity; captain assigned has responsibility for all publicity
announcements to news media and public awareness of department as directed by
the chief.
         f.   Building and grounds; captain assigned has responsibility for the
overall maintenance and upkeep of the building and grounds, to include doors,
windows and lights. Coordinates with the city employees for repair and/or
replacement of items.
   D.   Chief Engineer:
      1.   Responsible for equipment and vehicle readiness at all times.
Coordinates any repairs with public garages to ensure that all equipment and
vehicles are maintained properly, inspected and licensed, and are ready for use
at all times. Repairs minor malfunctions and failures of equipment on own
initiative.
      2.   Works directly with truck engineers to ensure all scheduled
maintenance operations are performed and all equipment and vehicles are
operational.
      3.   Reports to chief any problems on equipment and vehicles not
available for use.
   E.   Truck Engineer:
      1.   Services and maintains all equipment and vehicles ensuring vehicles
are ready to go at all times.
      2.   Checks all equipment and vehicles weekly, makes note of any
deficiencies on vehicle log and reports same to the chief engineer.
      3.   Performs monthly maintenance and is responsible for the cleaning and
washing of the vehicle. Truck engineers are to operate assigned vehicles and
equipment whenever the situation allows. Maintenance and washing should not be
performed at training meetings unless the training so requires use and clean up
of equipment.
   F.   Firefighter/Driver:
      1.   Drives fire apparatus to scene of fire. Has responsibility for
vehicle readiness and for its functioning at the fire scene. Operates pump and
equipment at fire scene, hose line, operates nozzles, participates in salvage
operation, cleans and maintains apparatus and other firefighting equipment at
the station.
      2.   Checks operating condition of hydrants.
      3.   Performs station maintenance work.
      4.   Participates in drills and training sessions.
   G.   Familiarize With Duties: It is the personal responsibility of all
volunteers to understand and familiarize themselves with their duties and the
responsibilities of the position. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-10-6 of this code for specific procedure.
4-1-5: TRAINING:
   A.   Scheduled Training: It shall be the duty of all personnel to attend
scheduled sessions. Volunteers not attending or leaving prior to end of
scheduled meeting without prior approval of the chief or officer in charge,
will not be given credit or pay for the training.
   B.   Attendance Requirement: Personnel are required to attend all training
sessions, duration of one hour or more. There will be approximately twenty four
(24) sessions scheduled per year. Personnel are required to attend seventy
percent (70%) or eighteen (18) drills to remain an active volunteer of the fire
department. There will be makeup sessions scheduled for those volunteers unable
to attend at the regularly scheduled training. Personnel attending makeup
sessions will be given full credit for training and pay.
   C.   New Volunteers: All new volunteers of the fire department will be
required to complete eight (8) hours of initial training of fire safety,
operating procedures, wearing of protective clothing and responding to alarm
before participating with the department on a fire scene or emergency. Initial
training will be given on regular scheduled training nights or during makeup
training. Arrangements can also be made with the chief for other sessions if
desired.
   D.   Apparatus Training: Firefighters who operate the apparatus for training
are responsible for the return of the apparatus to the station as well as
making the apparatus ready for the next call. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996)
4-1-6: CLOTHING, EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES:
   A.   Protective Gear: All firefighters are required to wear protective gear
at all times while at the scene of a fire or during hazardous situations.
Firefighters will not enter any structure having smoke or fumes present,
without a fresh air mask and equipment. The level of the protective clothing
shall be determined by the situation. All breathing apparatus or other
protective equipment shall be worn and used by firefighters in accordance with
the manufacture's guidelines and with the policies and procedures of the
department.
   B.   Care Of Clothing And Equipment: It shall be the duty of all personnel
of the department to inspect, maintain and clean all their firefighting
clothing and equipment. Any discrepancy will be reported to the chief
immediately. Unnecessary abuse of the equipment will not be tolerated. Upon
returning to the station, the firefighter in charge of the apparatus shall
check thoroughly to see that all of the hoses, tools, fittings or equipment for
that apparatus is accounted for. A report of any missing articles shall be
given to the chief engineer.
   C.   Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA): SCBA will be worn in any
atmosphere containing a toxic or producing gas, vapor, dust or mist that is
immediately dangerous to life or health or where the concentration is unknown,
in any oxygen deficient atmosphere. After use, wash, sanitize, rinse and dry
face piece. Check cylinder pressure weekly, examine face pieces and breathing
tubes for cuts, breaks and wear. Check harness and straps, "O" rings on high
pressure lines. Don face piece and test valve functions for leakage, test low
pressure alarm. Every (5) years SCBA equipment requires a hydrostatic test.
   D.   Tools And Equipment: No equipment, tools or supplies shall be taken
from the apparatus except for use at the scene of an alarm or other approved
activity. No tool or other equipment assigned to the apparatus shall be used to
accomplish daily routine tasks. No tools or other equipment of the department
are to be loaned for private use.
   E.   Vehicles Ready For Response: All apparatus, equipment and vehicles
shall be kept serviced and ready for immediate response to and use at alarms.
It is the responsibility of the individual in charge of any apparatus,
equipment or vehicle to see that this is done immediately upon return to the
station from an alarm or other activity, regardless of the hour of the day or
night. The inability to accomplish this shall be reported on the approved forms
showing the repairs that are needed in order to return the apparatus to
service.
   F.   Change Of Vehicles, Equipment: Volunteers shall not change the
construction or arrangements of apparatus, or of any departmental vehicles,
building, appliance or fixture without approval from the fire chief.
   G.   Fire Hoses: Fire hoses will be loaded on the pumpers as follows: pumper
(22J610) load water source to fire; pumper (22J611) load water source to fire;
brush truck (22J620) hose reel; tanker (22J630) hose reel, brush lines.
   H.   Fuel: All fire apparatus will be topped off with fuel before being
returned to station and put back in service, to include auxiliary pumps and/or
generators on weekends, holidays and after hours.
   I.   Private Use Of Vehicle: No firefighter shall use, drive or operate any
fire department vehicle for any private or personal purpose or for any purpose
other than in the official performance of his/her duty. The mayor or city
council representative over the fire department may authorize the use of
vehicles for civic functions, such as parades, as long as all safety
considerations are adhered to by all personnel involved. Participants in civic
functions will not be paid, and requests for support will be handled on a
volunteer basis. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996)
4-1-7: RESPONDING TO EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Traffic Laws: It is the responsibility of volunteers, when responding
to an alarm in their own personal vehicle, to observe the motor vehicle code
and all safety rules, realizing that they have the responsibility for welfare
of the public. All traffic laws are to be obeyed. Upon reaching the station,
personnel are to legally park in designated stalls in front and in back of the
station.
   B.   Route To Station: Personnel responding to emergencies will be required
to take the most expedient route available to the station.
   C.   Code Three Runs: In any emergency when lights and siren are used, the
operator will perform in a manner set forth in the following guidelines: Arrive
at the emergency scene as quickly and as safely as possible. Be alert and
exercise due care. Keep speed at a level which enables you to avoid hazards.
Keep vehicle under control at all times. When driving at high speeds, use siren
and red lights. Keep as near to the center of roadway as possible. Never pass
on the right except when no other course is open; proceed with extreme caution.
Allow motorists and pedestrians an opportunity to yield the right of way. Drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons. Personnel driving code 3 may
park or stand irrespective of Utah Code Annotated section 41-6-14; proceed past
red or stop signal, or stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be
necessary for safe operation; exceed maximum speed limits; disregard
regulations governing direction of movement or turning in specified directions,
so long as he/she does not endanger lives or property. Other traffic laws may
be violated as needed, but does not relieve the driver from maintaining proper
and safe control of the vehicle at all times, and from exercising ordinary and
responsible care over circumstances then existing. The use of red lights and
siren does not protect the driver from consequences of reckless disregard for
the safety of others.
   D.   Response Requirements:
      1.   In City Response: Upon responding to an emergency within the city
limits, the first individuals to arrive at the station will man and take the
pumper with which they are most familiar. The pumper, whenever possible, will
be fully manned by four (4) firefighters, including the driver, before leaving
the station. The pumper may leave the station with less than four (4) people if
there is a one to two (2) minute lapse in time with no other firefighters
showing to the fire station. The driver will make the call as when to leave the
station based upon the nature of the call. If less than four (4) firefighters
are present on the pumper, the following guidelines will be followed: three (3)
firefighters will perform limited offensive operations and after size up of the
scene, backup called if needed; two (2) firefighters will do defensive
operations only and backup will be called for before leaving the station.
Safety of the firefighters is of the utmost concern in all responses. The
position assignments for structure fire on the pumper will be: Pos #1-driver;
Pos #2-radio/interior attack; Pos #3-interior attack; Pos #4-hydrant/
observation. Additional personnel arriving at the station will man and take the
second pumper or brush truck as a backup vehicle.
      2.   County Response: Upon answering a call for county response, a pumper
fully manned will respond. Additional trucks and/or equipment will be taken to
the scene as the emergency dictates. In cases where other fire departments
request the city's assistance (mutual aid), only those items of equipment
requested will be taken. At no time will the city be left without sufficient
personnel and equipment to respond to additional calls or an emergency. Any
calls for aid to the Woodland hills area will be aid and control. No fire
equipment or personnel will be dispatched to that area without approval of the
mayor, except to protect city responsibilities in Loafer canyon.
   E.   Radio Response To Calls: It is the responsibility of all volunteers in
charge of any vehicle that is responding to an alarm or other activity to see
that the central dispatcher is notified of such response. The person in charge
of the first unit at the scene of an alarm will immediately notify the
dispatcher of his/her arrival, the extent of the fire or emergency, and need of
additional equipment or manpower and any environmental hazard or unusual
condition or situation.
   F.   Placement Of Apparatus: When locating apparatus at alarms or other
activities, volunteers shall take care to see that the apparatus is not in
danger and that is will not block or impede the movement of any apparatus at
the scene or which may arrive later. When apparatus must be parked on a road or
roadside, proper warning lights shall be displayed for the protection of the
equipment and volunteers.
   G.   Arrival At Scene: The person in charge of apparatus or crews arriving
at the scene of an alarm shall report his/her arrival and location to the
officer in charge and shall await direction from the officer in charge before
committing his/her truck or manpower. If no other is present at the scene of a
fire alarm, the senior individual present shall be deemed the acting officer in
charge and shall assume all reasonable responsibilities, duties and authority
until relieved by an officer.
   H.   Protection Of Scene: Reasonable and necessary efforts and precautions
shall be used by all individuals to protect the premises and involved property
at the scene from theft or vandalism. All individuals shall make every effort
to see that no unnecessary damage is done to the premises and property involved
in a fire. Good practices shall be adhered to at all times in combating,
extinguishing and overhauling of a fire scene.
   I.   Safety At Scene: All volunteers shall be alert for any hazardous
condition or situation at the scene of an alarm or other activity. It is the
duty of the person who discovers any hazardous condition or situation to warn
all persons nearby and to take reasonable steps or measures to correct or
eliminate the hazard. If the hazard cannot be corrected or eliminated, then it
should be marked as a warning to others and the officer in charge notified
immediately of its existence. The public shall be kept away from close
proximity of a fire scene and will not be used for any firefighting activities.
   J.   Evidence: Individuals shall be on the alert for evidence as to the
cause of the fire. Any evidence found shall be properly preserved, particularly
any evidence of suspected arson or incendiaries. When necessary, and with the
proper authority, the fire scene shall be secured while the investigation as to
the cause of the fire is determined.
   K.   Return To Station: Unless otherwise instructed, volunteers returning to
the fire station after an alarm are to return that truck to service as quickly
as possible, and then to stand by until all units have been released or
returned to the station.
   L.   Items Found At Scene: No individuals shall take or appropriate any
property, material or object from the scene of an alarm for a souvenir or for
personal use. Any volunteer finding money or valuables at the scene of an alarm
shall report his/her finding to the officer in charge. Under no circumstances
shall a volunteer turn over valuables to any unauthorized person.
   M.   Fire Involving Mail: Fire in United States mailboxes, post offices or
trucks shall be controlled if possible without breaking mailboxes or sacks.
Every effort shall be made to preserve the mail until the arrival of a postal
authority.
   N.   Response: Upon receiving a report for a fire call or a wash down, the
entire department is to be called out, unless otherwise directed by the fire
chief.
   O.   Seat Belts/Exiting Apparatus: All volunteers will comply with the
provision of using seat belts and rear/step belts when operating or riding in
or on the apparatus. No volunteer will jump off or get off from the apparatus
until it has come to a full stop.
   P.   Alarm During Meeting: When a fire alarm sounds during a department
meeting or assembly, the chief will assign crew to respond with the proper
turnouts and vehicle assignment.
   Q.   Release Of Apparatus From Scene: No firefighter shall leave the scene
of an alarm or remove department apparatus or equipment from the scene without
being properly released by the officer in charge.
   R.   Familiarization With City: All volunteers shall acquaint and
familiarize themselves with the location of the main topographical features
(such as roads, fire roads, peaks, canyons, communities, landmarks, street
addresses, fire hydrants, etc.) of the area so that they may readily find their
way to assignments or so that they can easily understand and follow reasonable
directions to alarms and emergencies.
   S.   Use Of Radio: Proper radio procedures will be strictly adhered to at
all times. Radios are only to be used for official department business. All
messages are to be courteous, short and to the point. No unnecessary
conversations will be permitted. Personnel are encouraged to study and use the
"10" code as much as possible.
   T.   Order Of Response: The following is the order for the initial response
of the fire equipment. Structure fire, city: pumper (22J610), followed by
pumper (22J611) as backup. Structure fire, county: pumper, followed by pumper
as backup. Grass fire, city: brush truck (22J620), followed by pumper (22J610)
as backup. Grass fire, county: brush truck (22J620) followed by pumper (22J610)
as backup. Automobile fire, city: pumper (22J620), brush truck (22J620) as
backup. Additional equipment to be called for as needed. Mutual aid: as
requested by department requesting aid. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996)
4-1-8: REPORTS:
   A.   Completing Reports: Fire reports will be initiated by the officer in
charge upon returning from an emergency. The person in charge at the station
will not finalize the report but leave it to the person in charge of the fire
to finalize and close out. The chief or officer in charge of the fire when all
equipment and personnel have returned to the station will finalize the report,
sign and secure in file box. Reports will also be made of the training meetings
and will include the material covered and the personnel present. Reports must
be accurate and correct to correspond with pay and training records. (Ord. 96-
5-14-2, 5-14-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Approving Reports: Officers in charge at the station or on the fire are
the individuals authorized to mark the fire reports. Individuals are not to
mark the fire reports on their own. (Ord. 96-5-14-2, 5-14-1996)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
ARTICLE A. NUISANCES DEFINED
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Intent
4-2A-2: Definition
4-2A-3: Specific Nuisances
4-2A-4: Exceptions
4-2A-5: Severability
4-2A-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means for the city and individuals
to identify nuisances within the city and to provide a means for correcting or
abating the nuisances. The city needs the ability to abate nuisances in order
to protect the health and safety of the public, to foster neighborhood
stability, to preserve the appearance, character, and beauty of neighborhoods,
to encourage community pride, to preserve the value of property, and to protect
the general welfare of the city and its citizens, businesses and visitors. This
chapter provides for progressive enforcement measures to abate nuisances; the
most aggressive forms of enforcement are generally reserved for the most
recalcitrant violators of this chapter. (Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009)
4-2A-2: DEFINITION:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ABATE: To repair, replace, remove, destroy, correct or otherwise remedy a
condition which constitutes a nuisance by such means, in such a manner and to
such an extent as the code enforcement officer, or his designee, determines is
necessary in the interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the
community.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: An enforcement officer hired or assigned by the city
to enforce this chapter.
COMPLETION DATE: The date by which the responsible person must abate a
nuisance. The “completion date” is originally set by the code enforcement
officer in the voluntary correction agreement or in the administrative
citation. The “completion date” may be modified by the hearing officer.
EMERGENCY: A situation which, in the opinion of the code enforcement officer,
requires immediate action to prevent or eliminate an immediate threat to the
health or safety of a person or property.
HEARING OFFICER: The person designated to hear appeals pursuant to this
chapter. The hearing officer shall be the Elk Ridge City administrator or his
or her designee. The designee need not be a city employee. The city
administrator may also appoint a committee to function as the hearing officer.
OWNER: Any person who, alone or with others, has title or interest in any
building or premises, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
For the purpose of giving notice, the term “owner” also includes any person in
physical possession.
PREMISES: A plot of ground, whether occupied or not.
PROPERTY: A building or structure, or the premises on which the building or
structure is located, or undeveloped land.
PUBLIC PLACE: An area generally visible to public view and includes alleys,
bridges, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks, streets and
buildings open to the general public, including those that serve food or drink
or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or
dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The person responsible for correcting or abating a nuisance
pursuant to this chapter. The responsible person includes the property owner
and any person who causes or permits a nuisance to occur or remain upon
property in the city, and includes, but is not limited to, the owner, lessor,
lessee or other person entitled to control, use and/or occupy property where a
nuisance occurs. In cases where there IS more than one responsible person, the
city may proceed against one, some or all of them.
This section defines nuisance by providing four (4) general definitions of what
constitutes a nuisance and then providing specific examples in section
4-2A-3 of this article of situations, conduct or activities that constitute
nuisances. The purpose of the general definitions is to allow the city to
classify an offending situation, conduct, or activity as a nuisance, even
though the situation, conduct, or activity may not be listed as a nuisance in
the specific examples. The first three (3) general definitions are taken
directly from Utah state law. The purpose of listing the specific examples is
to identify some of the specific situations, conduct and activities that the
city intends to abate as nuisances.
   A.   General Definitions of Nuisance: Any activity that meets any one or
more of the four (4) definitions set forth below shall constitute a “nuisance”
if it occurs within the city:
      1.    “Nuisance”, as defined in Utah Code Annotated Anything which is
injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses, or an obstruction of
the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property.
      2.   Section 76-10-801: “Nuisance”, as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 76-10-801. Any item, thing, manner or condition whatsoever that is
dangerous to human life or health or renders soil, air, water or food impure or
unwholesome.
      3.   Section 4-2A-(C): “Nuisance”, as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 76-10-803. Unlawfully doing any act purposely or omitting to perform
any duty, which act or omission:
         a.   Injures or endangers the health or safety of any person, or
annoys, injures or endangers the comfort or repose, of three (3) or more
persons;
         b.   Offends public decency;
         c.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake, stream, canal or basin, or any public
park, square, street or highway;
         d.   In any way renders a person insecure in life or the use of
property.
         An act which affects three (3) or more persons in any of the ways
specified in this subsection is still a nuisance regardless of the extent to
which the annoyance or damage inflicted on individuals is unequal.
      4.   Nuisance Conditions: A condition which:
         a.   Wrongfully annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health or safety of others; or
         b.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
render dangerous for passage, any public park, square, street or highway, or
any other public place; or
         c.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use
of property, and which affects the rights of an entire community or
neighborhood, although the extent of the damage may be unequal.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 23-01, 5-23-2023)
4-2A-3: SPECIFIC NUISANCES:
Every situation, conduct, or activity listed in this section constitutes a
nuisance and may be abated pursuant to this chapter. The listed examples are
not all inclusive; a situation, conduct or activity not listed below, but
coming within one of the general definitions of nuisance defined in section
4-2A-2 of this article, shall also constitute a nuisance.
   A.   Accessory Apartments; Illegal: Any violation of the city's accessory
apartment ordinance.
   B.   Alcohol: Every property or premises not licensed under applicable state
law or city ordinance where any intoxicating liquors or alcohol are kept for
unlawful use, sale, or distribution.
   C.   Animals: Any animal that is dangerous, vicious, creates excessive
noise, creates odors that can be smelled from adjacent property, or is kept
against the city zoning ordinance.
   D.   Attractive Nuisances: Any attractive nuisance dangerous to children and
other persons including, but not limited to, abandoned, broken, or neglected
household appliances, equipment and machinery, abandoned foundations or
excavations, or improperly maintained or secured pools.
   E.   Dangerous Buildings:
      1.   Any building or structure which is an unreasonable hazard to the
health of people residing in the vicinity thereof, or which presents an
unreasonable fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located; or
      2.   Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered,
enlarged, converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of city
ordinances, or any use of land, buildings or premises in violation of city
ordinances; or
      3.   Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed or left in an
unreasonable state of partial construction for a period of six (6) months or
longer. An “unreasonable state of partial construction” is defined as any
unfinished building or structure where the appearance or condition of the
building or structure does not meet the requirements for finished buildings or
structures as required by applicable city ordinances or building codes. The
building or structure shall not be considered to be a nuisance if it is under
active construction.
   F.   Buildings; Maintenance And Upkeep: Maintenance of buildings and/or
structures in such condition as to be deemed defective or in a condition of
deterioration or disrepair, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Buildings having dry rot, warping, termite infestation, decay,
excessive cracking, peeling or chalking, as to render the building unsightly
and/or in a state of disrepair; or
      2.   Buildings with missing doors and/or windows containing broken glass
and/or no glass at all where the window is of a type which normally contains
glass; or
      3.   Building exteriors, walls, fences, gates, driveways, sidewalks,
walkways, signs or ornamentation, or alleys maintained in such condition as to
render them unsightly and/or in a state of disrepair; or
      4.   Buildings or conditions that violate any building, electrical,
plumbing, fire, housing or other code adopted by the city.
   G.   City Code Nuisances: Any violation of a section of this code that
expressly declares a specific situation, conduct, or activity to be a nuisance.
   H.   Construction Equipment: Construction equipment or machinery of any type
or description parked or stored on property when it is readily visible from a
public street, alley or adjoining property, except while excavation,
construction or demolition operations covered by an active building permit are
in progress on the subject property or an adjoining property, or where the
property is zoned for the storage of construction equipment and/or machinery.
Any construction equipment stored in a public right of way, overnight.
   I.   Dangerous Conditions: Any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage,
building, structure or any part of the aforesaid; or any tree pole or
smokestack; or any excavation, hole, pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk, subspace,
dock or loading dock; or any lot, land, yard, premises or location which in its
entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in which the same
is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the health,
safety, life, limb or property, or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience,
discomfort, damage or injury to any one or more individuals in the city, in any
one or more of the following particulars:
      1.   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community;
      2.   By reason of being a fire hazard;
      3.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon, about
or around the aforesaid property;
      4.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which such property is situated or such condition exists.
   J.   Debris Accumulation: Accumulation of soil, litter, debris, plant
trimmings, or trash, visible from the street or an adjoining property.
   K.   Drug Houses: Every building or premises where the unlawful sale,
manufacture, service, storage, distribution, dispensing, or acquisition of any
controlled substance, precursor, or analog specified in the Utah controlled
substances act occurs.
   L.   Dust: Any premises or activity which causes excessive dust due to lack
of landscaping, nonmaintenance or other cause. This includes dust from
construction sites.
   M.   Family: Keeping or allowing people at a premises in violation of the
city's single-family residence requirements.
   N.   Fire Hazard: A fire hazard.
   O.   Gambling: Every building or premises where gambling is permitted to be
played, conducted, or dealt upon as prohibited in Utah Code Annotated
(gambling), which creates the conditions of a “nuisance”.
   P.   Gangs: Every building or premises wherein criminal activity is
committed in concert with two (2) or more persons.
   Q.   Garbage Can: The leaving of any garbage can, refuse, or recycle
container in the street, other than on collection day, for more than twenty
four (24) hours before or after the collection day.
   R.   Graffiti: Graffiti which remains on the exterior of any building,
fence, sign, or other structure and is visible from a public street.
   S.   Hazardous Conditions: Any wall, sign, fence, gate, hedge, or structure
maintained in such condition of deterioration or disrepair as to constitute a
hazard to persons or property.
   T.   Disorderly House or Premises: Every property or premises where there
exists an environment which causes, encourages or allows individuals or groups
of individuals to commit one or more of the following acts on the property,
premises or adjacent public place, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Illegally consuming intoxicating liquor or alcohol;
      2.   Publicly urinating or defecating;
      3.   By physical action, intentionally causing or attempting to cause
another person to reasonably fear imminent bodily injury or the commission of a
criminal act upon their person or upon property in their immediate possession;
      4.   Engaging in acts of violence, including fighting amongst themselves;
      5.   Discharging a firearm or explosive in violation of city ordinance or
state law;
      6.   Creating unreasonable noise which disturbs others;
      7.   Intentionally obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic; or
      8.   Soliciting acts of prostitution.
   U.   Junk Accumulation: Accumulation of used or damaged lumber; junk;
salvage materials; abandoned, discarded or unused furniture; stoves, sinks,
toilets, cabinets, or other fixtures or equipment stored so as to be visible
from a public street, alley, or adjoining property. However, nothing herein
shall preclude the placement of stacked firewood for personal noncommercial use
on the premises.
   V.   Parking: Parking or storage of any recreational vehicle boat or trailer
on a public street, within a regularly maintained public right-of-way, or in
any clear view area is prohibited. Recreational vehicles and trailers may be
parked on the street for attended loading and unloading purposes only, and if
towed must remain attached to the tow vehicle. The unsafe parking of any of the
above-mentioned vehicles is prohibited and may be cited or removed by law
enforcement personnel or the city administrator. All vehicles parked, at any
time, on the street or within city right-of-way must be registered and legal.
   W.   Landscaping; Required: Failure to install or maintain landscaping
required by city ordinance.
   X.   Noise; Public Disturbance: Noise that constitutes a public disturbance
after once being requested to stop making the noise. A public disturbance shall
be any sound which unreasonably disturbs or interferes with the peace, comfort
or repose of owners or possessors of real property and which emanates from any
of the following sound sources: music, stereo or sound systems; loud arguing,
threatening or yelling in a manner likely to incite violence, boisterous
conduct, animals.
   Y.   Noise; Construction Work/Machinery: Construction work and the use of
machinery or motorized power tools and equipment in or adjacent to a
residential area between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. Specialized equipment used for seasonal and periodic snow
removal, agricultural uses, commercially zoned business, and all emergency
equipment shall not be considered a nuisance.
   Z.   Noise; Motor Vehicles: The repetitive or continuous starting, testing
or operation of a motor vehicle, including motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles,
and recreational vehicles.
   AA.   Noise; Sports/Outdoor Activities: Sports and other outdoor
entertainment activities in or adjacent to a residential area between the hours
of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Friday and
Saturday nights the time allowed extends to eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M.
   BB.   Noxious Emanations: Emanation of noxious or unreasonable odors, fumes,
gas, smoke, soot or cinders. These include odors from animals, animal housing,
and animal food.
   CC.   Noxious Weeds: Weeds include, but are not limited, to vegetation
growth that has become a fire hazard, capable of being ignited and which would
contribute to fire growth; or any vegetation that is noxious, a nuisance, or
dangerous as determined by the enforcement officer or other city staff that is
assigned. Also included is any vegetation which has been designated a noxious
weed by the Utah Commissioner of Agriculture. (Utah Administrative Code R68-
9 Utah Noxious Weed Act.) For weeds on developed lots refer 10-12-36-G of this
code.
      1.   Weeds located on vacant lots, vacant land, along public sidewalks,
public streets, or weeds in any other location which constitute a fire hazard
must be cut to a height of four inches (4") or less in areas thirty feet (30')
from any public sidewalk, public street, or structure and cut to a height of
twelve inches (12") or less in areas fifty feet (50') from any public sidewalk,
public street, or structure.
      2.   All noxious weeds must be cut to a height of twelve inches (12') or
less on vacant lots, vacant land, along public sidewalks, public streets, or
noxious weeds in any location, and not allowed to reseed. Also, noxious weeds
must be cut a height of four (4") or less in areas thirty (30') from any public
sidewalk, public street, or structure.
      3.   Should the city fire marshal determine the cut back of weeds on a
vacant lot, vacant land, along public sidewalks, public street, or weeds in any
other location is insufficient to protect persons or property he may order
through the code enforcement officer that the cut back distance be increased to
a distance the fire marshal determines would mitigate the fire hazard.
   DD.   Parking Or Storage; Distressed Vehicles: Parking or storage of
inoperative, unregistered, abandoned, wrecked or dismantled vehicles, or
vehicle parts, outside of an enclosed structure or fenced area on premises, in
the public right of way, on a street, on a vacant lot or parcel, or in view
from a street.
   EE.   Parking Or Storage; Trailers, Boats, Recreation: The parking of
vehicles and trailers may only be done by permission of the property owner.
Long term parking or storage of inoperable, unregistered and junk vehicles
within the front or street side setbacks is prohibited. Parking of inoperable
or junk vehicles on any city street is prohibited. Any vehicle deemed a
nuisance by law enforcement or the city administrator may be cited or removed
by the city administrator or law enforcement personnel.
   FF.   Party Houses: Every building or premises where parties occur
frequently which create the conditions of a nuisance. Some of the factors the
city may examine in determining whether a party house exists include: an
increase in the number of emergency response calls due to parties being held;
any pattern of activity that suggests that parties creating a nuisance are
taking place; any pattern of activity which diminishes the quiet enjoyment of
those buildings and premises around the alleged party house or which cause the
immediate neighbors to fear for their safety or the safety of their family
members due to the party activity.
   GG.   Prostitution: Every building or premises where prostitution or the
promotion of prostitution is regularly carried on by one or more persons.
   HH.   Refuse: Keeping or storing of any refuse or waste matter which
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of nearby property.
   II.   Signs: Improper maintenance of a sign; or signs which advertise a
business that is no longer extant on the property. Keeping or allowing banner
signs in violation of city ordinance.
   JJ.   Stagnant Water: Polluted or stagnant water which constitutes an
unhealthy or unsafe condition.
   KK.   Storage Of Materials; General: The keeping, storing, depositing,
accumulating, or maintenance of dirt, sand, gravel, sod, concrete, or other
similar materials on any setback area abutting a street or public right-of-way,
or readily visible from an adjacent lot or parcel for an unreasonable period of
time, generally over one week. The placement of dirt, sand, gravel, sod,
concrete or any similar material on a public street or within the public right-
of-way is prohibited. The unsafe placement of any object on a public street or
within the public right- of-way is prohibited. Any violations of this section
may result in a citation. If the condition is an immediate safety concern,
corrective action may be taken by law enforcement or the city administrator, at
the expense of those responsible for the violation.
   LL.   Storage Of Materials; New Construction: The keeping, storing,
depositing, or accumulating on a site construction materials, dirt, sand,
gravel, concrete, debris or other similar materials prior to a grading permit,
construction bond, or building permit is approved. The keeping, storing,
depositing, or accumulating on a site construction materials, dirt, sand,
gravel, concrete, debris, or other similar materials outside of trash bins or
located outside the designated storage area identified on an approved site
plan. Material stored in the public rights-of-way for an unreasonable period of
time. Any construction debris or items allowed to be blown from the
construction site. Any debris or construction materials left after construction
is complete. The keeping, storing, depositing, or accumulating construction
materials, dirt, sand, gravel, concrete, debris, or other similar materials on
a public street.
   MM.   Tobacco Smoke: Tobacco smoke that drifts into any residential unit,
two (2) times or more within a seven (7) day period.
   NN.   Unsafe Condition: A condition that unreasonably or unlawfully affects
the health or safety of one or more persons.
   OO.   Vandalism: Any act of vandalism toward public or private property.
   PP.   Vegetation: Dead, decayed, diseased, or hazardous trees, weeds,
hedges, and overgrown or uncultivated vegetation which is in a hazardous
condition, is an obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which is
likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests.
   QQ.   Weapons: Every building or premises where illegal weapons occur on the
premises.
   RR.   Commercial Activities: Operational activities commonly associated with
a particular commercial business, regardless of the licensing status or
licensing entity of the business, must adhere to the regulations of the zone.
Operational activities include but are not limited to the operating of
vehicles, equipment, or machinery or the storing, or accumulation of equipment,
machinery and/or supplies. This section does not apply to the incidental
operation of commercial vehicles, equipment or machinery provided the use is
not germane to the operational activities of a business and is in harmony with
the zone where the property is located.
   SS.   Outdoor Lighting: Any lighting violation defined as such in the city
zoning ordinance and other city code. Light trespass, as defined by city code
is prohibited.
   TT.   Harassment of Wildlife: The feeding of deer, elk, moose, and turkeys
are prohibited within Elk Ridge City Boundaries. Touching, teasing, or the
intentional disruption of wildlife is considered harassment and is prohibited.
Hunting of wildlife is prohibited in Elk Ridge City. Wildlife mitigation by law
enforcement, authorized animal control, and state wildlife personnel is
allowed. Wildlife mitigation must be conducted in accordance with City and
State code by those given authority. The trapping and removal of rodents,
skunks, raccoons are allowed.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 10-6, 2-23-2010, eff. 2-26-
2010; Ord. 18-7, 5-22-2018; Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019; Ord. 21-07, 9-14-2021; Ord.
23-01, 5-23-2023)
4-2A-4: EXCEPTIONS:
No act which is done or maintained under the express authority of an
authoritative statute, ordinance, or court ruling shall be declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2A-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any clause, section, or provision of these nuisance definitions and specific
examples is declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the validity of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 23-01, 5-23-2023)
ARTICLE B. NUISANCE PROCESS
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Abate Defined
4-2B-2: Responsible Person For Nuisance
4-2B-3: Affected Party Action
4-2B-4: Enforcement Officer
4-2B-5: Finding Of Nuisance
4-2B-6: Voluntary Correction Agreement
4-2B-7: No Agreement
4-2B-8: Administrative Citation
4-2B-9: Abatement By The City
4-2B-10: Habitual Nuisance
4-2B-11: Appeals
4-2B-1: ABATE DEFINED:
"Abate" means to repair, replace, remove, destroy, correct or otherwise remedy
a condition which constitutes a nuisance by such means, in such a manner and to
such an extent as the enforcement officer determines is necessary in the
interest of the general health, safety, and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2B-2: RESPONSIBLE PERSON FOR NUISANCE:
Any person or persons, whether as owner, agent, or occupant, who creates, aids
in creating, or contributes to a nuisance, or who supports, continues, or
retains a nuisance, is responsible for the nuisance and is therefore a
responsible person pursuant to this chapter. Every successive owner or tenant
of a property or premises who fails to abate a continuing nuisance upon or in
the use of such property or premises caused by a former owner or tenant is
responsible therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2B-3: AFFECTED PARTY ACTION:
An action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously affected,
or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2B-4: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the enforcement officer, law
enforcement, fire marshal or authorized city staff. In case of nuisances
involving dangerous buildings, this chapter may be administered and enforced by
the building inspector, fire marshal or authorized city staff.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019; Ord. 23-01,
5-23-2023)
4-2B-5: FINDING OF NUISANCE:
If the enforcement officer finds that a nuisance exists, the officer shall
attempt to have the responsible person abate the nuisance. Although the
officer's first step in correcting or abating the nuisance will always be to
obtain voluntary compliance, the officer may pursue any remedy or combination
of remedies available pursuant to this chapter, state law, or common law in
order to abate the nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to
prohibit the city from engaging in its standard prosecution practices.
Therefore, the city may prosecute violators of city ordinances or state laws
without first having to comply with the provisions of this chapter, even though
the activity or conduct prosecuted may also constitute a nuisance under this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prevent the city from
enforcing applicable city ordinances, building codes, or the abatement of
dangerous buildings code without first treating the offending conduct,
situation, or activity as a nuisance pursuant to this chapter.
   A.   Finding Of Nuisance Form: The officer shall fill out the finding of
nuisance form and shall clearly site what portion of the code has been
violated. Photos, citizen accounts, and other evidence of the nuisance should
be collected to document the nuisance. Citizen accounts can be anonymous. The
form shall also state a time frame for abatement of the nuisance, penalties for
noncompliance, and the availability of a voluntary correction agreement as set
forth in section
4-2B-6 of this article.
Before taking other steps to abate the nuisance, the enforcement officer should
make a reasonable attempt to secure voluntary correction or abatement of the
nuisance by contacting the responsible person, where possible; explaining the
nuisance; requesting the responsible person to abate the nuisance; and agreeing
to terms with the responsible person to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2B-6: VOLUNTARY CORRECTION AGREEMENT:
   A.   Enter Into Agreement: If the enforcement officer and the responsible
person agree to terms for abating the nuisance, they may enter into a voluntary
correction agreement. The voluntary correction agreement is a contract between
the city and the responsible person in which the responsible person agrees to
abate the nuisance within a specified time and according to specified
conditions. The voluntary correction agreement shall include the following
terms:
      1.   The name and address of the responsible person;
      2.   The street address of the nuisance, or a description sufficient to
identify the building, structure, premises, or land upon or within which the
nuisance is occurring;
      3.   A description of the nuisance;
      4.   The necessary corrective action to be taken, and a date by which
correction must be completed;
      5.   An agreement by the responsible person that the city may inspect the
premises as may be necessary to determine compliance with the voluntary
correction agreement;
      6.   An agreement by the responsible person that the city may abate the
nuisance and recover its costs and expenses to abate the nuisance, as well as a
monetary fine pursuant to this chapter from the responsible person, if terms of
the voluntary correction agreement are not met;
      7.   An agreement by the responsible person acknowledging that he/she
waives the right to appeal the enforcement officer's finding that a nuisance
exists and waives the right to appeal the specific corrective action required
in the voluntary correction agreement; and
      8.   An agreement by the responsible person that failure to comply with
the voluntary correction agreement may be grounds for criminal prosecution.
   B.   Extension: The enforcement officer may grant an extension of the time
limit for correcting or abating the nuisance if the responsible person has
shown due diligence and/or substantial progress in correcting or abating the
nuisance but unforeseen circumstances render abatement under the original
conditions unattainable. If the responsible person complies with the terms of
the voluntary correction agreement, the city shall take no further action
against the responsible person related to the nuisance described in the
voluntary correction agreement unless the nuisance recurs.
   C.   Failure To Abide: Failure to abide by the agreement and/or abate the
nuisance within the time frame stated on the finding of nuisance form or the
voluntary correction agreement can result in further action being taken, as
outlined in this section.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2B-7: NO AGREEMENT:
If the enforcement officer and the responsible person cannot agree to terms for
correcting or abating the nuisance, the officer may still abate the nuisance
using one or more of the procedures set forth in this chapter, state law, or
common law.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2B-8: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
When the enforcement officer determines that a nuisance exists, and is unable
to secure voluntary correction pursuant to this article, the officer may issue
an administrative citation to the responsible person. The officer may issue an
administrative citation without having attempted to secure voluntary correction
if it is found that an emergency exists or when the officer is unable to locate
or determine the identity of the responsible person or owner of record.
   A.   Administrative Citation Form: The administrative citation shall include
the following:
      1.   The name and address of the responsible person; and
      2.   The street address of the nuisance or a description sufficient for
identifying the building, structure, premises, or land upon or within which the
nuisance is occurring; and
      3.   A description of the nuisance; and
      4.   The required corrective action; and
      5.   A required completion date and a notice that the city may abate the
nuisance and charge the responsible person for all abatement costs if the
responsible person does not correct the nuisance before the completion date;
and
      6.   The time for appealing the administrative citation to the hearing
officer and the procedure for filing an appeal.
      7.   A statement indicating that no monetary fine will be assessed if the
enforcement officer approves the completed, required corrective action prior to
the required completion date; and
      8.   A statement that the city may abate the nuisance and assess costs
and expenses of abatement and a monetary fine against the responsible person if
the correction is not completed by the responsible person and approved by the
enforcement officer before the required completion date.
   B.   Service Of Administrative Citation: The enforcement officer shall serve
the administrative citation upon the responsible person, either personally or
by mailing, certified with a return receipt requested, a copy of the
administrative citation to the responsible person at his/her last known
address. If the responsible person cannot, after due diligence, be personally
served within Utah County and if an address for mailed service cannot after due
diligence be ascertained, notice shall be served by posting a copy of the
administrative citation conspicuously on the affected property or structure.
Proof of service shall be made by a written declaration under penalty of
perjury executed by the person effecting the service, declaring the time and
date of service, the manner by which the service was made, and if by posting,
the facts showing that due diligence was used in attempting to serve the person
personally or by mail.
   C.   No Extension: No extension of the time specified in the administrative
citation for correction of the nuisance may be granted, except by order of the
hearing officer.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2B-9: ABATEMENT BY THE CITY:
The city may abate a nuisance when the terms of a voluntary correction
agreement have not been met, or the requirements of an administrative citation
have not been complied with, or, if the administrative citation is appealed to
a hearing officer and the terms of the administrative citation are amended by
the hearing officer, the terms of the hearing officer's order have not been
complied with. Whenever a nuisance is occurring which constitutes an immediate
and emergent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare or to the
environment, the city may summarily and without prior notice abate the
condition. Notice of such abatement, including the reason for it, shall be
given to the responsible person as soon as reasonably possible after the
abatement.
   A.   City Removal Of Nuisance: Using any lawful means, the city may enter
upon the subject property and may remove or correct the condition which is
subject to abatement. The city may seek, but is not required to seek, such
judicial process as it deems necessary to effect the removal or correction of
such condition.
   B.   Property Confiscation: During an abatement proceeding, any personal
property constituting a nuisance, as defined by this chapter, may be
confiscated as part of the abatement process. Any property that has been
confiscated by the city as part of an abatement will be held pending the
resolution of the nuisance. The owner of the abated property may recover the
property upon showing that the nuisance has been corrected or that substantial
efforts, as determined by the enforcement officer, have been made to correct
the nuisance. The property owner shall pay the cost of storage of the property.
If, after ninety (90) days of the property being confiscated, the property
owner fails to claim the confiscated property, the city shall notice the
responsible person noting the item(s) to be disposed. The city may dispose of
the property, to include sale at auction, etc., and seek to collect the cost of
storage from the property owner and any other remedies as provided by law.
   C.   Abatement Costs: The costs, including incidental expenses, of
correcting or abating the violation shall be billed to the responsible person
and/or the owner, lessor, tenant or other person entitled to control, use and/
or occupy the property and shall become due and payable to the city within ten
(10) days of actual receipt of the bill (within 15 days of the mailing date if
the bill is mailed). The term incidental expenses include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   Personnel costs, both direct and indirect, including attorney fees
and costs;
      2.   Costs incurred in documenting the violation;
      3.   Hauling, storage and disposal expenses;
      4.   Actual expenses and costs for the city in preparing notices,
specifications and contracts, and in accomplishing and/or contracting and
inspecting the work; and
      5.   The costs of any required printing and mailing.
   D.   Monetary Fine: The responsible person shall pay the city a monetary
fine for each day the nuisance continues after the required completion date
listed on an administrative citation. The nuisance shall be considered to
continue until the enforcement officer approves the responsible person's
actions to correct or abate the nuisance. The amount of the monetary fine shall
be adopted by resolution of the city council and be listed on the city fee
schedule. The fine will be changed for each day that the nuisance remains
uncorrected or unabated after the required completion date.
   E.   Monetary Fine Cumulative: The monetary fine shall be cumulative and may
not be waived by the enforcement officer. Payment of a monetary fine pursuant
to this section does not relieve the responsible person from the duty to abate
the nuisance as required by the voluntary consent agreement or the
administrative citation. The monetary fine constitutes a personal obligation of
the responsible person. Any monetary fine assessed must be paid to the city
within ten (10) days of actual receipt of the bill (within 15 days of the
mailing date if the bill is mailed).
   F.   Payment Of Fines: The city attorney or authorized city staff is
authorized to take appropriate action to negotiate the amount of the monetary
fine, collect the monetary fine, determine the time period in which the fine
shall be paid and take any other action necessary to resolve the fine. In
determining the time period in which to pay, the city attorney or designee may
take into consideration the number of days between the required completion date
and the actual completion date, enforcement officer input, the responsible
person’s cooperation, etc. The city may also seek to collect reasonable
attorney fees and costs incurred in collecting the monetary fine where allowed
by law.
   G.   Civil Action: Either the city or any private person directly affected
by a nuisance may bring a civil action to abate or enjoin the nuisance, or for
damages for causing or maintaining the nuisance (including the cost, if any, of
cleaning the subject property). The civil action may be brought pursuant to
this chapter or pursuant to state law.
   H.   Criminal Action: Criminal actions may be initiated by criminal citation
from the enforcement officer or by long form information. Any person who
maintains or assists in maintaining a nuisance is guilty of a class C
misdemeanor. No person shall be prosecuted under this subsection unless the
enforcement officer first attempted to obtain voluntary correction. If the
alleged nuisance is also a violation of a provision of this code (other than
this nuisance chapter) or state law, the responsible person may be charged
under the specific provision of this code or state law, even if the enforcement
officer did not first attempt to obtain voluntary correction. Any person who
knowingly obstructs, impedes, or interferes with the city or its agents, or
with the responsible person, in the performance of duties imposed by this
chapter, or a decision and order issued by the hearing officer, or a voluntary
correction agreement, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
   I.   Abatement By Eviction: Whenever there is reason to believe that a
nuisance is kept, maintained, or exists in the city, the city attorney or any
citizen(s) residing in the city, or any person or entity doing business in the
city, in his or their own names, may maintain an action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to abate the nuisance and obtain an order for the automatic
eviction of the tenant of the property harboring the nuisance. The eviction
shall take place as specified in Utah law.
   J.   Nonexclusive Remedies: The city may take any or all of the above
mentioned remedies (administrative, civil, or criminal) to abate a nuisance
and/or to punish any person or entity that creates, causes or allows a nuisance
to exist. The abatement of a nuisance does not prejudice the right of the city
or any person to recover damages or penalties for its past existence.
   K.   Collection Through Taxes: In the event that the enforcement officer or
other city staff that is assigned elects to refer the expenses of destruction
or removal to the county treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice of the
property owner, they shall make an itemized statement of all expenses incurred
in the destruction and removal of the same, and shall deliver the required
copies of the statement to the county treasurer within ten (10) days after the
completion of the work to abate. Thereupon, the costs of the work shall be
pursued by the county treasurer in accordance with the provisions as stated in
the Utah Code Annotated, as amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall have such
rights and shall be subject to such powers as are thereby granted.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019; Ord. 23-01,
5-23-2023)
4-2B-10: HABITUAL NUISANCE:
"Habitual nuisance" means any premises or property located within the city that
generates repeated responses from law enforcement officials or the enforcement
officer because of nuisance related activities. Any premises or property that
generates two (2) or more voluntary correction agreements or administrative
citations for drug or party house nuisance related activities or three (3) or
more voluntary correction agreements or administrative citations for other
nuisances, within an eighteen (18) month time period, shall be deemed a
habitual nuisance.
Any property determined to be a habitual nuisance shall be subject to a fine
adopted by resolution by the city council listed in the city fee schedule. The
fine will be additional to any fine issued as part of an administrative
citation. A building or premises may not be declared a habitual nuisance nor
may any fine be collected unless notice to the responsible person has been
given. Notice that a property may be declared a habitual nuisance shall be
stated on the face of an administrative citation or through some other
documentation delivered to the responsible person. The notice shall state that
future responses to the property may result in the property being declared a
habitual nuisance, subject to a fine.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
4-2B-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Issues Appealed: Any person receiving an administrative citation may
appeal the administrative citation to the hearing officer. Only the following
issues may be appealed to the hearing officer:
      1.   The person charged in the administrative citation as the responsible
person, is not the responsible person as defined by this article.
      2.   The condition described as a nuisance in the administrative citation
is not a nuisance as defined by this chapter.
      3.   The method required by the administrative citation to abate the
nuisance is inappropriate or is not the most cost effective method of
effectively correcting or abating the nuisance.
      4.   The time period given to abate the nuisance in the administrative
citation is unreasonable.
      5.   The enforcement officer refused to approve a corrective action that
met the requirements of the administrative citation.
      6.   The responsible person claims that the requirement(s) of the
administrative citation violates his/her constitutional rights.
   B.   Filing: A person desiring to appeal an administrative citation must
file a notice of appeal at the city within ten (10) days of being served with
the administrative citation or within fifteen (15) days of the mailing date if
the administrative citation is mailed. A person who has made corrective action
in response to an administrative citation, which corrective action the
enforcement officer refused to approve, may appeal within ten (10) days from
the completion date. The notice of appeal shall clearly and concisely set forth
all the reasons for the appeal. The hearing officer shall examine the notice of
appeal to determine whether a valid appeal has been stated. If the appellant
has not stated a valid cause for appeal, or if the appellant has failed to show
by a preponderance of the evidence, that he/she has an appealable issue, the
appeal shall be denied and no hearing shall be held. If the appellant has not
shown due diligence and/or substantial progress in correcting the nuisance or
has made no attempt to correct the nuisance, the filing of an appeal will not
stop the accrual of the fines. If the appellant has filed an appeal, the filing
of such appeal will not prevent law enforcement officers from responding to the
property on reports of new nuisance violations.
   C.   Hearing: The hearing before the hearing officer shall be informal
according to rules and procedures established by the hearing officer. The
hearing officer shall be appointed by the city and is the same officer that
handles adjustments of land use decisions made by the city council. The
appellant may, but is not required to, bring an attorney or other
representative to assist him or her. The appellant and the enforcement officer
may each call witnesses at the hearing. The hearing officer may, with or
without the parties present, visit the site of the alleged nuisance. If the
hearing officer allows the parties at the site visit, both parties must be
given the opportunity to be present. The hearing officer shall schedule the
hearing within thirty (30) days of when the notice of appeal is filed with the
city. The city attorney, or his designee, shall be present for the hearing and
act as legal adviser for the hearing officer.
   D.   Burden Of Proof: In appellant's notice of appeal, the appellant shall
have the initial burden of proof to demonstrate by a preponderance of the
evidence that he/she has stated legitimate grounds for an appeal as listed in
subsection A of this section. If the appellant has timely filed his/her appeal
and a hearing has been scheduled, the burden then shifts to the city to show by
a preponderance of the evidence that a nuisance does exist. The determination
of the enforcement officer as to the need for the required corrective action
shall be accorded substantial weight by the hearing officer in determining the
reasonableness of the corrective action.
   E.   Authority Of Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall have authority
to affirm or vacate the administrative citation, or to modify or waive specific
provisions of the administrative citation. If the appellant fails to attend the
hearing, the hearing officer shall affirm the administrative citation. The
hearing officer shall not vacate the administrative citation unless he/she
finds that no nuisance exists. The hearing officer shall modify the
administrative citation if he/she finds that a nuisance exists, but that one or
more of the requirements of the administrative citation are improper or
inappropriate. A requirement is improper if it is contrary to this chapter. A
requirement is inappropriate if the hearing officer finds that there is a
better means of resolving the problem or that the proposed solution is
inappropriate given the nature or severity of the problem. When determining
whether to waive or modify a requirement of the administrative citation, the
hearing officer may also consider:
      1.   Whether the appellant responded to the enforcement officer's
attempts to contact the appellant and cooperated with efforts to correct the
nuisance;
      2.   Whether the appellant has shown due diligence and/or substantial
progress in correcting the nuisance;
      3.   The financial ability of the appellant and the amount, if any, that
the appellant has benefited financially by maintaining the nuisance.
      4.   Any other relevant factors. If the appellant appeals the enforcement
officer's refusal to approve appellant's corrective action, the hearing officer
shall visit the site and determine if the appellant complied with the
requirements of the administrative citation.
   F.   Order: The hearing officer shall issue a written order to the appellant
and the city notifying them of his/her decision. The order shall include the
hearing officer's findings of fact and ultimate decision. If the hearing
officer modifies or waives provisions of the administrative citation, the order
shall specify which portions are modified and how they are modified. The
hearing officer shall mail a copy of the order to the appellant and the city
within five (5) working days of the close of the hearing.
   G.   Appeal To District Court: Either the city or the appellant may appeal
the hearing officer's order by filing a petition for review of the order. The
petition must be filed in the fourth district court within thirty (30) calendar
days from the date the hearing officer's order was mailed to the appellant. In
the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the hearing officer's order
was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. The hearing officer shall transmit to
the reviewing court the record of its proceedings, including any minutes,
findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript of its
proceedings. If, in the opinion of the court, there is a sufficient record to
review the hearing officer's order, the court's review is limited to the record
provided by the hearing officer. The court may not accept or consider any
evidence outside of the hearing officer's record unless the evidence was
offered to the hearing officer and the court determines that it was improperly
excluded by the hearing officer. If, in the opinion of the court, there is not
a sufficient record to review the hearing officer's order, the court may call
witnesses and take evidence. No petition or appeal may be filed in court unless
the responsible person first appeals to the hearing officer pursuant to the
terms set forth in this article.
(Ord. 09-7, 10-27-2009, eff. 11-2-2009; amd. Ord. 19-5, 9-10-2019)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Collection Of Garbage
4-3-3: Service Charges
4-3-4: Regulations
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in commercial establishments, including
restaurants, hotels, motels and similar establishments.
COMMUNITY WASTE: Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
CONTAINER OR REGULATION CONTAINER: A type of garbage or trash container of
galvanized metal or other approved material and having a tight fitting lid or
properly tied or sealed, treated, weather resistant paper or plastic bag
manufactured specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or consumption
of food and food products.
PREMISES: A zoning lot, together with buildings and structures located thereon.
REFUSE: All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. "Refuse" shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in places of private residence and dining
halls not open to the public. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989; amd. 2003 Code)
4-3-2: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE:
   A.   Required:
      1.   The municipality or its agent shall collect, remove and dispose of
all residential or commercial garbage, the removal of which is not otherwise
provided for by the establishment or institution as herein provided.
      2.   All garbage and refuse shall be collected, removed and disposed of
with such frequency and in such manner as the city council may from time to
time establish by regulation.
   B.   Authorized Removal: Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this
chapter, no garbage or refuse shall be moved or hauled away or transported upon
the streets or public ways of the municipality except by the municipality, its
agent or authorized persons hauling commercial garbage or refuse as hereinafter
provided. It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, except as
permitted in this chapter, to haul or remove garbage or refuse in the
municipality.
   C.   Commercial Establishments And Institutions: Commercial establishments,
public or quasi-public, institutions and establishments creating commercial
garbage, may remove commercial garbage themselves or may employ the services of
authorized contractors to remove commercial garbage. Authorized garbage haulers
must apply for and receive permission to do so from the city recorder. Haulage
of refuse must be done in the manner, at such times and in such vehicles as may
be approved for such purposes as the city council may from time to time by
regulation provide.
   D.   Relief Of Obligation: The municipality or its agent shall be relieved
of its obligation to collect garbage from a residence if a mutual agreement not
to do so is reached between the two (2) parties and maintained on file in the
municipal office.
   E.   Persons Hauling Own Garbage: Nothing contained in this section shall
preclude persons from hauling their own garbage, trash or community waste over
the streets and alleys of the municipality in vehicles and containers approved
by a sanitary inspector or such other personnel of the municipality as the city
council may authorize.
   F.   Charge Not Eliminated: Nothing in this section shall be construed as
eliminating the charge for garbage service, except where the garbage service is
missed or the garbage is not picked up because of a mutual agreement filed with
the municipality or its agent. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989)
4-3-3: SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   All residents and all business establishments within the
municipality shall pay the municipality the rate established by the city
council. The rate charged for garbage service may be changed from time to time
by resolution as the city council sees fit.
      2.   Charges shall apply to all residences and business establishments
whether or not they have also elected to haul their own garbage or employ the
services of authorized garbage haulers, unless exempted by the city council.
Exemptions shall be reviewed annually.
      3.   If a dwelling unit or a place of business has remained vacant for an
entire month, the owner or possessor of the site may make arrangements with the
city recorder for no garbage collection charges during the continued vacancy of
the premises.
      4.   The mayor, with consent of the city council, may excuse needy widows
and elderly persons who are not reasonably capable of paying the monthly charge
for residential collection of garbage from the payment of the residential rate
for such period of time as may be deemed proper or necessary.
   B.   Method Of Payment:
      1.   The garbage service charges imposed by this chapter shall be added
to the charge made for water furnished through the water system of the
municipality and shall be billed and collected in the same manner as water
service charges are billed and collected.
      2.   In the event that the obligee for the water service charges and the
obligee for the garbage service charges do not coincide, or in the event that
practical economic and administrative reasons do not make combined billing and
collection feasible in the opinion of the city council, the garbage service
charges may be collected with such frequency and in such manner as the city
council shall by regulation provide. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989)
4-3-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   No Accumulation Of Garbage: It shall be unlawful for any person to
accumulate garbage or refuse, or cause garbage or refuse to be deposited upon
any street or alley or upon any premises in the municipality without the
express permission from the city. The city may permit the feeding or processing
of garbage or refuse upon premises properly equipped and maintained so as to
prevent the creation of a nuisance or a hazard to health, or permit the
depositing of ashes and other dry material for filling purposes at such places
as the city may designate and under such restrictions as the city council may
by regulation impose. Additionally, the city may grant to any person permission
for sorting, bailing and marketing trade waste upon premises properly equipped
and maintained. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Containers:
      1.   All garbage and refuse shall be placed in suitable and sufficient
garbage receptacles, either receptacles with tight fitting lids or properly and
sufficiently treated water resistant paper or plastic bags manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
      2.   Containers shall not exceed a total of four (4), 30-gallon capacity
each, for receiving and holding garbage, market waste or other refuse which may
accumulate.
      3.   Receptacles shall not be filled to exceed sixty (60) pounds in
weight, including the weight of the receptacle. Rigid receptacles shall be
provided with handles for convenient lifting.
   C.   Closing Of Containers Required: All garbage and market waste must be
placed in rainproof and flyproof receptacles of the type herein required, and
the receptacle shall be tightly closed in such manner as to prevent offensive
odors or flies.
   D.   Time And Place Of Pick Up:
      1.   All garbage and refuse subject to garbage collection by the
municipality shall be placed at a pick up point at or near the premises,
adjacent to a public street or right of way, as established from time to time
by regulations adopted by the city council.
      2.   Until otherwise provided by regulation, garbage and refuse must not
be set out upon the street for collection prior to the evening of the day
before collection and must be set out on the day of collection before the hour
of collection designated by regulations of the city council.
      3.   All empty receptacles must be removed from the street as soon as
practicable after being emptied, and in every case must be removed from the
street the same day they are emptied. Receptacles shall not be permitted to
remain on any street longer than may be necessary for the removal of the
contents.
   E.   Disposal Of Community Waste:
      1.   Community waste may be disposed of by residents and business
establishments in vehicles provided by them subject to regulation by the city
council as to the places of disposal and as to the type of vehicle used to
avoid spillage upon the public ways of the municipality, hazards to safety and
the prevention of nuisances.
      2.   The city council from time to time may provide for the collection
and disposal of such types of community waste as it may decide to collect and
haul in connection with its regular garbage, waste collection and disposal
service. In the event community waste disposal service should require a charge
to be made by the municipality, the determination of the charge will be made by
negotiation with the residents or business enterprises, and the residents or
business enterprises will be given an opportunity to choose from among services
offered by persons other than the municipality.
   F.   Open Burning Of Refuse Prohibited; Exception:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, market waste,
manure or other refuse in the open air or in any furnace or stove within the
municipality. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989)
      2.   "Open burning" of agricultural and horticultural trimmings of trees
and shrubs by residents is prohibited except at times and in locations set
forth in current state, county or municipal regulations. In no case will such
open burning be allowed without at least twenty four (24) hour advance notice,
by the resident, to the fire chief, and receipt of an open burning permit from
the fire department. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989; amd. 2003 Code)
   G.   Dumping Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or dump garbage, ashes, market waste, paper boxes, cartons or
night soil, or any other refuse, upon any lot within the municipality whether
such lot is occupied or vacant and whether such person so placing, depositing
or dumping such refuse is the owner, tenant, occupant or lessor thereof, or has
the same under his jurisdiction and control.
   H.   Limitations Upon Dumping: Dumping waste and garbage shall be permitted
only in such places as are designated by the city council. Dumping shall be
subject to such rules and regulations as may be formulated by the city council.
   I.   Council To Adopt Regulations: The city council may adopt such
regulations as in its opinion are necessary to implement this chapter and its
objectives. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989)
CHAPTER 4
LITTER; HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Handbills And Posters; Restricted Activity
4-4-3: Litter Regulations
4-4-4: Handbill Regulations
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE: A public or private litter storage and collection
receptacle.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
   A.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
   B.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest in sales thereof;
   C.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. However, the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place
of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without
a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state,
or under any ordinance of the city; or
   D.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, cooking or consumption of food, condemned
food products and all refuse and waste from the handling, storage, preparation
and sale of produce. Garbage originates primarily in kitchens, stores, markets,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is handled, stored, sold,
cooked and consumed.
LITTER: Is "garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish", as defined herein, and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety, welfare or appearance of the city.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general or local circulation or any periodical or
current magazine regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per
year and sold to the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill
or newspaper.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city.
REFUSE: Putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid
market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively on
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989)
4-4-2: HANDBILLS AND POSTERS; RESTRICTED ACTIVITY:
No person or business shall post, stick, stamp, paint or otherwise affix, or
cause the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card,
poster, advertisement or other paper or device calculated to attract the
attention of the public, or upon any sidewalk, curb or any other portion or
part of any public way or public place or any lamp post, electric light,
telegraph, telephone or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or tree box, or
upon the columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other parts of any
bridge or other public structure or building, or upon any pole, box or fixture
of the fire alarm or police telegraph system, except such as may be authorized
or required by the laws of the United States or state, and the ordinances of
the city. (Ord. 89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989)
4-4-3: LITTER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or on any
street, sidewalk or other public place except:
      1.   In authorized receptacles for collection or in official city garbage
dumps; or
      2.   For collection as authorized by the city council.
   B.   Placement In Receptacles: Persons placing litter in authorized
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or other public place or on
private property.
   C.   Sweeping Into Gutters Prohibited: No person shall sweep into or deposit
in any gutter, street or other public place the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway, except as
authorized by the city council. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep
the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
   D.   Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Clear: No person owning or occupying
a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of
business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter.
   E.   Thrown By Person In Vehicle: No person, while a driver or passenger in
a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter on any street or other public place,
or on private property.
   F.   Truck Loads Causing Litter: No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any
load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited on any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck,
the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or
other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of
any kind.
   G.   Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park, except in
authorized receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the park or on
any street or other public place. Where authorized receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein.
   H.   Lakes And Fountains: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere
within the city.
   I.   Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on
any occupied private property, whether owned by such person or not, except that
the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on any private property.
   J.   Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or
vacant private property, whether or not owned by such person. (Ord. 89-11-28-5,
11-28-1989)
4-4-4: HANDBILL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Throwing Or Distributing In Public Places; Penalty: No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street or other public place within the city. Unless otherwise
authorized by the city council, it is an infraction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to hand out, distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not
be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it. (Ord. 89-11-28-5,
11-28-1989; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Placing On Vehicles: Unless otherwise authorized by the city council,
no person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
on any vehicle; provided however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public
place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver
thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to
accept it.
   C.   Depositing On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises: No person shall throw or
deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises
which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
   D.   Prohibiting Distribution Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill on any private
premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on
said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign being
the words "no trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", "no advertisements", or
any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises
do not desire to be molested or to have their right of privacy disturbed or to
have any such handbills left on such premises.
   E.   Distributing At Inhabited Private Premises: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on private
premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such
handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or on
such private premises. However, in case of inhabited private premises which are
not posted, as provided in this section, such person, unless requested by
anyone on such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in
or on such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or
deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted
about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except
that mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations.
   F.   Exception For Mail And Newspapers: The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers,
except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner so
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on private property.
   G.   Posting Notice Prohibited: No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the
public, to any lamp post, public utility pole or shade tree, or on any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law. (Ord.
89-11-28-5, 11-28-1989)
CHAPTER 5
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CLEANUP; RECOVERY OF EXPENSES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Defined
4-5-2: Prohibited Acts
4-5-3: Authority Of City
4-5-1: DEFINED 1 :
   A.   Hazardous substance, materials or waste means any material that,
because of its quantity, concentration, or physical or chemical
characteristics, poses a significant present or potential hazard to human or
animal health and safety, or to the environment if released into the work place
or environment.
   B.   Hazardous substance, materials or waste shall also include any
substance declared hazardous by the city in an effort to protect the health and
safety of the residents of the city. (Ord. 95-3-14-2, 3-14-1995; amd. 2003
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA §§ 19-6-102 and 19-6-302.
4-5-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to release, discharge, deposit,
or cause to be released, discharged or deposited, any hazardous substance,
material or waste upon or into any property or facility within the city or into
any of the airways, watercourses, pipelines or other means of conduit which may
flow into the city. (Ord. 95-3-14-2, 3-14-1995)
4-5-3: AUTHORITY OF CITY:
   A.   Abatement By City: The city is authorized, but not required, to clean
up or to abate the effects of any hazardous material, substance or waste
unlawfully released, discharged or deposited upon or into any property or
facilities within the city, or into any of the airways, watercourses, pipelines
or other means of conduit which flow into the city. The "responsible party", as
defined in Utah Code Annotated section 19-6-302, shall be jointly and severally
liable to the city for payment of all costs incurred by the city as a result of
such cleanup or abatement activity. (Ord. 95-3-14-2, 3-14-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Supervision, Verification: In the event that any person undertakes,
either voluntarily or upon order of a city official, to clean up or abate the
effects of any hazardous material, substance or waste unlawfully released,
discharged or deposited upon or into property or facilities within the city, or
into the airways, watercourses, pipelines or other means of conduit which flow
into the city, the city may take such action as is necessary to supervise or to
verify the adequacy of the cleanup or abatement. Persons described in
subsection A of this section shall be liable to the city for all costs incurred
as a result of such supervision or verification.
   C.   Costs Included: For purposes of this section, costs incurred by the
city shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the following:
      1.   Actual labor costs of city personnel, including benefits and
administrative overhead;
      2.   Costs of the equipment operation;
      3.   Costs of any contract labor and materials.
   D.   Remedies Additional: The remedies provided for by this section shall be
in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   E.   Fire Suppression Services Not Included: The authority to recover costs
under this section shall not include actual fire suppression services which are
normally or usually provided by the fire department. (Ord. 95-3-14-2, 3-14-
1995)
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-6-1: State Statutes Adopted
4-6-2: State Fire Prevention Board Rules
4-6-3: Permit Required
4-6-4: Prohibited Acts And Activities
4-6-1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED:
The Utah fireworks act, Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 3, and section
53-7-220 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted as a city ordinance. (Ord. 95-
6-27-4, 6-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
4-6-2: STATE FIRE PREVENTION BOARD RULES:
Rules, specifications, standards or requirements promulgated by the Utah state
fire prevention board as permitted or required by the various sections of the
Utah fireworks act are included and adopted as part of this chapter. (Ord. 95-
6-27-4, 6-27-1995)
4-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Required; Fee: No person shall offer for sale or sell any fireworks
within the city limits without a permit countersigned by the fire chief. A
separate permit shall be required for each separate sales location, and the fee
for each permit shall be in such amount as established by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 95-6-27-4, 6-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for a permit to sell fireworks
shall be in writing and shall:
      1.   Include the name and address of the person, firm or corporation
applying for the permit;
      2.   Describe the specific location where fireworks will be sold; (Ord.
95-6-27-4, 6-27-1995)
      3.   Include evidence of insurance in an amount not less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for bodily injury or death of two (2) or
more persons in any one accident, and in an amount not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for injury to or destruction of property of
others in any one accident; (Ord. 95-6-27-4, 6-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Include any other information reasonably requested by the fire
department. (Ord. 95-6-27-4, 6-27-1995)
4-6-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Discharge: It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to discharge fireworks:
      1.   In such a manner that the fireworks project over or into the
property of another person without the consent of the person owning or
controlling such property; or
      2.   In any open field which contains dry, grassy material; or
      3.   From or into any motor vehicle or at or near any person.
   B.   Homemade Fireworks: It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to make, sell or offer to sell or to discharge any type of
homemade fireworks.
   C.   Sales: It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to sell or to offer to sell fireworks:
      1.   Without a permit;
      2.   In violation of any requirements of this chapter or any regulation
adopted by the Utah state fire prevention board. (Ord. 95-6-27-4, 6-27-1995;
amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
SIDEWALK SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
4-7-1: Civil Liability For Failure To Remove Debris, Snow Or Ice
4-7-1: CIVIL LIABILITY FOR FAILURE TO REMOVE DEBRIS, SNOW OR ICE:
The obligation to remove debris, snow or ice from sidewalks shall be as
follows, for purposes of civil liability:
   A.   Removal of debris, snow or ice from sidewalks; to the extent that
removal is required by state law, this code or by other local ordinance, shall
be the exclusive obligation of the owner, tenant or lessee of the property to
which a sidewalk is contiguous. Civil liability for damages or injuries
resulting from the failure to remove debris, snow or ice from sidewalks, to the
extent that removal is required by state law, this code or by other local
ordinance, shall be borne by the owner, tenant or lessee of property, who shall
be jointly and severally liable. (Ord. 06-14, 10-10-2006)
CHAPTER 8
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Discharging Firearms
4-8-3: Discharge Of Weapons
4-8-4: Concealed Firearms And Weapons
4-8-5: Exhibition Of Weapons
4-8-6: Penalty
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
FIREARM: A pistol, revolver, shotgun, rifle, or any device that could be used
as a dangerous weapon from which is expelled a projectile by action of an
explosive.
WEAPON: A bow and arrow, slingshot, wrist rocket, blowgun, BB gun, air gun or
any type of instrument designed to propel, throw, or expel a projectile capable
of causing bodily harm and/or property damage. (Ord. 08-17, 10-14-2008, eff.
11-20-2008)
4-8-2: DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the city
limits of Elk Ridge, whether on public or private property, except under the
following conditions:
   A.   Any duly sworn peace officer or division of wildlife resources
personnel in the performance of his duty.
   B.   Livestock owners are allowed to kill depreciated animals as long as
they are in compliance with other city or state codes or rules.
   C.   A resident has the right to use force in defense of life and property
in compliance with the state statutes governing that defense.
   D.   The discharge of appropriate firearms will be allowed on approved
firearms ranges and on public lands owned by the U.S. forest service or the
Utah division of wildlife resources and on any property within the city limits
that any deprivation hunt can be filled in accordance with applicable state and
federal laws and regulations. (Ord. 08-17, 10-14-2008, eff. 11-20-2008)
4-8-3: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to discharge a weapon within the city
in such a manner as to endanger persons or property or to cause the projectile
or missile to cross into property owned by another.
   B.   Bows and arrows cannot be discharged within six hundred feet (600') of
any structure, utility feature or roadway, public or private. (Ord. 08-17, 10-
14-2008, eff. 11-20-2008)
4-8-4: CONCEALED FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law or retired
law enforcement officer as permitted in HB 219, to carry a concealed firearm or
weapon upon his person unless they have obtained the permit required by Utah
Code Annotated title 76, chapter 10, part 5, as amended. (Ord. 08-17, 10-14-
2008, eff. 11-20-2008)
4-8-5: EXHIBITION OF WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, when not necessary for self- defense, to
draw and exhibit any weapon in a hostile, angry or threatening manner. (Ord.
08-17, 10-14-2008, eff. 11-20-2008)
4-8-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any section of this chapter shall be guilty of a class
B misdemeanor or lesser offense, as determined by the prosecutor and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 08-17, 10-14-2008, eff. 11-20-2008)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
CRIMINAL CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-1-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The Utah criminal and traffic code 1 , as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as the criminal and traffic code of the city. Where a citation or
information is issued under this chapter, it shall be sufficient to use the
section number of the Utah code to designate the section number of the city
code which has been violated. One copy has been filed for use and examination
by the public in the office of the city recorder. (Ord. 96-9-24-7, 9-24-1996;
amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Intergovernmental Enforcement
5-2A-2: General Animal Provisions
5-2A-3: Definitions
5-2A-4: Penalty
5-2A-5: Enforcement Generally
5-2A-6: Right Of Entry For Enforcement
5-2A-7: Power And Authority Of Animal Regulation Officer
5-2A-8: Investigations
5-2A-9: Hindering And Obstructing Enforcement
5-2A-10: Conditions Of Animal Ownership
5-2A-11: Wild Animals
5-2A-12: Dogs Running At Large
5-2A-13: Cats Running At Large
5-2A-14: Public Nuisance
5-2A-15: Attacks By Dogs
5-2A-16: Vicious Animals
5-2A-17: Livestock
5-2A-18: Cruelty To Animals
5-2A-19: Dogfighting
5-2A-20: Officers' Authority To Take Possession Of Animals; Lien For Care
5-2A-21: General Regulations Relating To Animals
5-2A-22: Loss Of Privilege To Maintain Dog In City
5-2A-23: Injuries And Communicable Diseases
5-2A-24: Fees; Charges
5-2A-1: INTERGOVERNMENTAL ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall be enforced under the terms of interlocal agreement with
Utah County for law enforcement and animal control. This chapter authorizes
personnel in employment of Utah County to perform services for the city of Elk
Ridge as agents of the city as defined more specifically in the specific
sections of this chapter which refer to enforcement personnel and the duties of
the Utah County animal control department and Utah County veterinarian. (Ord.
09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-2: GENERAL ANIMAL PROVISIONS:
This article details the general requirements for animal ownership, nuisance
control, and city and county regulations. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, each of the following words and phrases shall
have the following meaning:
ANIMAL: Birds, reptiles, and mammals other than the species Homo sapiens.
ANIMAL AT LARGE: Any domesticated animal, whether or not licensed, not under
restraint.
ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT: Any animal under control of its owner or person having
charge, care, custody, or control; except that a dog shall not be considered
under control of the owner unless on a leash or lead, confined within a
vehicle, or within the real property limits of the owner.
BITE: An actual puncture, tear, or abrasion of the skin, inflicted by the teeth
of an animal.
CAT: Any age feline of the domesticated types.
COORDINATOR: The Utah County coordinator of the department of animal
regulation.
COUNTY: Utah County, Utah.
COUNTY ANIMAL SHELTER: The lot, premises, or buildings maintained for the
confinement and care of the animals seized under the provisions of this
chapter.
COUNTY VETERINARIAN: The Utah County veterinarian, his agents or deputies.
DEPARTMENT: The Utah County department of animal regulation, its agents and
deputies.
DOG: A Canis familiaris of either sex, altered or unaltered, or any other
member of the Canis genus if owned or kept.
DOG LICENSE: A properly completed and validated dog license application/rabies
certificate form issued by the county.
DOG LICENSE APPLICATION/RABIES CERTIFICATE FORM: The official dog license
application form issued by the county. It is properly completed when it
contains:
   A.   The dog owner's name, address, and telephone number;
   B.   The dog's name and description;
   C.   The type, lot number, and manufacturer of the rabies vaccine;
   D.   The date of vaccination;
   E.   The signature of the veterinarian who vaccinated the dog or other
signature authorized by him.
DOMESTICATED ANIMAL: Any animal accustomed to live in or about the habitation
of man, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, fowl, horses, swine, cattle,
sheep, and goats.
GUARD DOG: A working dog which must be kept in a fenced run or other suitable
enclosure during business hours, or on leash or under absolute control while
working, so it cannot come into contact with the public.
IMPOUNDED ANIMAL: Any animal taken into custody by the department as provided
in this chapter.
KENNEL: Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereupon or
wherein three (3) or more dogs over four (4) months of age are kept or
maintained for commercial gain, including boarding, breeding, buying, grooming,
letting for hire, training for fee, or selling.
LEASH: Any rope, leather strap, chain or other material being held in the hand
of the person capable of control and actually controlling the animal to which
it is tied.
LICENSE TAG: A piece of metal or other durable material inscribed with a date
and number which has been issued by the county.
LICENSED DOG: A dog wearing its current dog license tag as required by this
chapter.
NEUTERED: Having had the testicles removed; a castrated animal.
OWNER: Any person who is the legal owner, keeper, possessor, or the actual
custodian of an animal. Ownership is established by a person registering as
owner on a license or other legal document or being a person claiming ownership
and taking possession of an animal.
QUARANTINE: The isolation of an animal under the observation of a licensed
veterinarian or in the custody of the animal shelter in a substantial enclosure
so that the animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized
persons.
SPAYED: Having had the ovaries and uterus removed or extirpated; an
ovariohysterectomy.
STRAY: An animal which is at large.
VACCINATED DOG: A dog inoculated with an approved, currently valid, antirabies
vaccine, and wearing a current dog license tag indicating proof of such
vaccination.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: An animal:
   A.   With a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack unprovoked,
to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or other
domestic animals;
   B.   Which attacks a human being or other domestic animal without
provocation; or
   C.   Which is trained or used as a fighting animal.
This provision shall not apply to dogs owned or used by a government entity.
WILD ANIMALS: Any animals of a species that in their natural life are wild,
including hybrids, and animals which, as a result of their natural or wild
condition, cannot be vaccinated effectively for rabies. These animals, however
domesticated, shall be limited to:
   A.   Alligators and crocodiles;
   B.   Bears (Ursidae). All bears, including grizzly bears, brown bears, black
bears, etc.;
   C.   Cat family (Felidae). All except the commonly accepted domesticated
cats, and including cheetah, cougar, leopard, lion, lynx, panther, mountain
lion, tiger, wildcat, etc.;
   D.   Dog family (Canidae). All except domesticated dogs, and including wolf,
part wolf, fox, part fox, coyote, part coyote, dingo, etc.;
   E.   Porcupine (Erethizontidae);
   F.   Primate (nonhuman). All subhuman primates;
   G.   Raccoon (Procyonidae). All raccoons, including eastern raccoon, desert
raccoon, ringtailed cat, etc.;
   H.   Skunks;
   I.   Venomous fish and piranha;
   J.   Venomous snakes and lizards;
   K.   Weasels (Mustelidae). All including weasels, martens, wolverines,
ferrets, badgers, otters, ermine, mink, mongoose, etc.
The keeping of any wild animal which existed prior to the effective date hereof
may be continued, except that if it is discontinued for one year or more it
shall then be deemed abandoned and any future keeping of wild animals shall be
in conformity with this chapter. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months
unless a different penalty shall be provided for herein. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009,
eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-5: ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY:
The department, each agent or deputy thereof who is assigned to duties which
include the enforcement of animal regulation laws and any peace officer are
responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter and other provisions
of state law which they have a duty to enforce. These individuals shall have
the power to make arrests for violations of those provisions of this chapter
and of state law which he has a duty to enforce and to issue citations for such
violations. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR ENFORCEMENT:
In the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, any animal regulation
officer or authorized agent or deputy may enter the premises of any person to
take possession of any animal in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-
2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-7: POWER AND AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL REGULATION OFFICER:
In the performance of his duties, the animal regulation officer is hereby
vested with the power and authority of deputies within the county sheriff's
office. Badges of authority shall be issued by the county sheriff, and the
recipient thereof shall be duly sworn in as a deputy sheriff of the county.
(Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-8: INVESTIGATIONS:
The department, public health officer and any peace officer may enter privately
owned land to investigate reports of vicious animals, rabies, or other
contagious animal diseases, and to investigate violations of and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-9: HINDERING AND OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
prevent an animal regulation officer from discharging the duties designated
under this chapter. Any person who shall hinder, delay, interfere with, or
obstruct the animal regulation officer while engaging in capturing, securing or
taking to the animal shelter any animal or animals to be impounded, or who
shall break open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or
advise the breaking open of any animal shelter or ambulance, wagon or other
vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of any animals to the shelter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-10: CONDITIONS OF ANIMAL OWNERSHIP:
It shall be unlawful for animal owners or keepers to fail to comply with the
following standards of animal ownership, and in addition, the city may require,
as a condition of licensing, that owners or keepers sign a contract to comply
with each and all conditions:
   A.   Animals shall be restrained or confined as required by law.
   B.   Animals shall be humanely treated at all times.
   C.   Vaccinations, licenses, and permits shall be obtained as required by
law.
   D.   Animal premises shall be kept clean and sanitary and shall not be
allowed to constitute an insect habitat or reservoir, a source of offensive
odors or of human or animal disease.
   E.   Animals and animal premises shall not be permitted to disturb the peace
or constitute a public nuisance or hazard. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-
2009)
5-2A-11: WILD ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter, give away, keep,
own, harbor, or purchase any wild animal, except for government agencies or
otherwise as provided for by state or federal regulations. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-
2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-12: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody, or control
of any dog to allow such dog at any time to run at large. The owner or person
charged with responsibility for a dog found running at large shall be strictly
liable for any violation(s) committed by the dog, regardless of whether or not
the person knows the dog is running at large. Trained dogs under the
supervision of the owner may be at large while participating in field trials
and obedience classes organized and sanctioned by recognized dog clubs, while
assisting their owner or trainer in legal hunting or in herding of livestock,
while assisting a peace officer engaged in law enforcement duties, or while
being trained for the above purposes so long as such dogs are under direct and
effective sound or gesture control within sight of such individuals to assure
that they do not violate any other provisions of law. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009,
eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-13: CATS RUNNING AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody, or control
of any cat to allow such cat to run at large on the property of another. The
owner or person charged with responsibility for a cat found running at large
shall be strictly liable for any violation(s) committed by the cat, regardless
of whether or not the person knows the cat is running at large. (Ord. 09-5, 9-
8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-14: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The introduction, possession or maintenance of any animal, or the allowing of
any animal to be in contravention of this chapter is, in addition to being a
misdemeanor, hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The department, public
health officer, and peace officers are hereby authorized, directed and
empowered to summarily abate any such public nuisance by any means reasonably
necessary, including, but not limited to, the destruction of the animal or
animals involved.
   A.   Definitions: Any animal which does any of the following shall be deemed
a nuisance:
      1.   Causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner or
custodian;
      2.   Is a "vicious animal" as defined in this article and kept in a
manner contrary to this chapter;
      3.   Causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors;
      4.   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings;
      5.   Defecates on any public sidewalk, park or building, or on any
private property without the consent of the owner of such private property
unless the owner or custodian of such animal shall remove any such defecation
to a proper trash receptacle. Unsighted persons while relying on a guide dog
shall be exempt from this subsection;
      6.   Barks, whines, or howls, or makes other disturbing noises in an
excessive, continuous, or untimely fashion;
      7.   Molests passersby or chases passing vehicles;
      8.   Attacks other domestic animals;
      9.   Otherwise acts so as to constitute a nuisance or public nuisance
under the provisions of title 76, chapter 10, Utah Code Annotated, 1953.
   B.   Determination: An animal is a nuisance if it is determined by the
department to be a nuisance by virtue of being offensive or dangerous to the
public health, welfare, or safety. Any animals which, by virtue of the number
maintained, are determined by the department to be offensive or dangerous to
the public health, welfare or safety. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-15: ATTACKS BY DOGS:
It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody, or control
of any dog to allow such dog to attack, chase, or worry any person, any
domestic animal having a commercial value, or any species of hoofed protected
wildlife, or to attack domestic fowl. "Worry", as used in this section, means
to harass by tearing, biting, or shaking with the teeth. The owner in violation
of this section shall be strictly liable for violation of this section. In
addition to being subject to prosecution under this section, the owner of such
dog shall also be liable in damages to any person injured, or to the owner of
any animal(s) injured or destroyed thereby. The following shall be considered
in mitigating the penalties or damages, or in dismissing the charge:
   A.   That the dog was properly confined on the premises;
   B.   That the dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
Any law enforcement officer may kill a dog while it is committing any of the
acts specified in this section or while the dog is being pursued thereafter.
(Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-16: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
An animal control officer upon probable cause that a violation of this chapter
has occurred may require the owner or custodian of a vicious animal to deliver
possession of the animal to an animal control officer. If after demand the
owner or custodian fails or refuses to deliver possession of the animal to an
animal control officer, the animal control officer may request an order from a
court of competent jurisdiction requiring the owner or custodian to deliver
possession of the animal to an animal control officer. An animal control
officer may summarily impound a vicious animal which is at large or which is an
immediate danger to humans or domesticated animals. If an animal control
officer cannot gain control of a vicious animal, the officer may summarily
destroy the animal. If a vicious animal is impounded without the knowledge of
the owner or custodian, notice that the animal has been impounded shall be
given to the owner or custodian of the animal, if the same is known, by
attaching a notice to a door at the residence thereof or by mailing a notice
thereto. A vicious animal impounded by an order of a court acting pursuant to
this section shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the court shall
direct. A vicious animal impounded without a court order shall be held not less
than five (5) days, after which it may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as
the supervising control officer may direct. The owner or custodian of an animal
impounded other than by a court order may contest the impounding by filing a
notice with the proper court within five (5) days after the impounding.
   A.   Possession Of A Vicious Dog: The possession of a vicious dog is
unlawful unless it is restrained, confined, or muzzled so that it cannot bite
or attack any person or animal. Dogs held in violation of this section shall be
deemed a public nuisance, and their continued possession or ownership shall be
unlawful. The department may impound any such dog and dispose of it in any
humane manner after five (5) working days to allow for legal restraining action
by the owner. The following are conditions of ownership of any animal which is
fierce, dangerous, or vicious:
      1.   The dog must be kept in a heavy gauge wire dog run which is six feet
(6') in height with a secure ceiling and floor.
      2.   The dog must be kept on a leash and properly muzzled when out of its
dog run.
   B.   Allowing Vicious Animals To Go At Large: Any owner of a vicious animal,
knowing its propensities, who wilfully allows it to go at large or who keeps it
without ordinary care, and any animal that while at large, or while not kept
with ordinary care, causes injury to another animal or to any human being who
has taken reasonable precaution which the circumstances permitted, is guilty of
a class B misdemeanor.
   C.   Guard Dogs: Guard dogs shall be kept in such a manner so that they
cannot come into contact with persons or other animals that are legally upon
the premises where a guard dog is maintained. The property shall be posted with
a sign clearly visible stating that a guard dog is on the premises.
   D.   Judicially Excluded Animals: It shall be unlawful to bring any animal
into the city which has in any jurisdiction:
      1.   Been judicially determined to be vicious, a nuisance, or a threat to
the health or safety of human beings.
      2.   Been judicially removed from any county or municipality for
violations of the laws or ordinances which by their nature are also in
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-17: LIVESTOCK:
It is unlawful for any person owning or having the custody, possession, or
control of an animal of a class of livestock or fowl to allow, either
negligently or with specific intent, the animal to run at large. All fencing of
property where a class of livestock or fowl is kept shall be of sufficient
construction to prevent the escape of or injury to the animals being confined
within the fencing. The fencing shall be maintained so that no part of such
fence, absent extraordinary circumstances, may be broken, damaged, or in any
way create the possibility of injury to the confined animal or to allow the
escape thereof. Any animal in violation of this section may be impounded. (Ord.
09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-18: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
A person commits cruelty to animals if he intentionally or knowingly:
   A.   Fails to provide any animal in his charge or custody with adequate
food, drink, care, and shelter.
   B.   Abandons an animal in his custody.
   C.   Carries or confines any animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or
inhumane manner, including, but not limited to, carrying or confining such
animal without adequate ventilation or for an unusual length of time.
   D.   Kills, maims, disfigures, tortures, beats with a stick, chain, club, or
other object, mutilates, burns, scales, overdrives, overworks, or otherwise
cruelly sets upon any animal. Each offense shall constitute a separate
violation.
   E.   Makes accessible to any animal, with intent to cause harm or death, any
substance which has in any manner been treated or prepared with any harmful or
poisonous substance. This provision shall not be interpreted so as to prohibit
the use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin in furtherance of the
public health, when applied in such a manner as to reasonably prohibit access
to other animals.
   F.   Causes any animal, not including a dog, to fight with another animal or
creature of like kind for amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a
dog, to fight with a different kind of animal or creature for amusement or
gain.
   G.   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that the
conduct of the actor toward the animal was by a licensed veterinarian using
accepted veterinary practice, or directly related to bona fide experimentation
for scientific research; provided, that if the animal is to be destroyed, the
manner employed will not be unnecessarily cruel unless directly necessary to
the veterinary purpose or scientific research involved.
Violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff.
10-1-2009)
5-2A-19: DOGFIGHTING:
   A.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Own, possess, keep, or train a dog with the intent to engage it in
an exhibition of fighting with another dog;
      2.   Cause a dog to fight with another dog or cause a dog to injure
another dog for amusement or gain;
      3.   Tie, attach, or fasten any live animal to a machine or device
propelled by any power, for the purpose of causing the animal to be pursued by
a dog; or
      4.   Permit or allow any act which violates subsections of this section
on any premises under his charge; or to control, aid, or abet any such act.
   B.   Training And Spectators: Possession of any breaking stick, treadmill,
wheel, hot walker, cat mill, cat walker, jenny, or other paraphernalia together
with evidence that the paraphernalia is being used or is intended for use in
the unlawful training of a dog to fight with another dog, together with the
possession of any such dog, is prima facie evidence of violation of this
section. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally be
present as a spectator at any place, made for an exhibition of dogfighting, or
to knowingly and intentionally be present at a dogfighting exhibition or any
other occurrence of fighting or injury described in this section regardless of
whether any entrance fee has been charged. A person who violates this section
is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
   C.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit
any of the following:
      1.   The use of dogs for the management of livestock by the owner, his
employees or agents, or any other person in the lawful custody of livestock;
      2.   The use of dogs for hunting;
      3.   The training of dogs or the possession or use of equipment in the
training of dogs for any purpose not prohibited by law.
   D.   Authority To Arrest And Take Possession Of Dogs And Property: A deputy
animal control officer may enter any place, building, or tenement where an
exhibition of dogfighting is occurring, or where preparations are being made
for such an exhibition, and without a warrant arrest all persons present.
Any authorized officer who makes an arrest under this section may lawfully take
possession of all dogs, paraphernalia, implements, or other property or things
used or employed, or to be employed, in an exhibition of dogfighting. The
officer, at the time of that taking, shall state his name and provide other
identifying information to the person in charge of the dogs or property taken.
After taking possession of dogs, paraphernalia, implements, or other property,
the officer shall file an affidavit with the judge or magistrate before whom a
complaint has been made against any person arrested under this section. That
affidavit shall include:
      1.   The name of the person charged in the complaint;
      2.   A description of all property taken;
      3.   The time and place of the taking;
      4.   The name of the person from whom the property was taken;
      5.   The name of the person who claims to own the property, if known;
      6.   A statement that the officer has reason to believe and does believe
that the property taken was used or employed, and the grounds for such belief.
The officer shall deliver the confiscated property to the judge or magistrate
who shall, by order, place the property in the custody of the officer or any
other person designated in the order, and that person shall keep the property
until conviction or final discharge of the person against whom the complaint
was made. The person so designated shall assume immediate custody of that
property, and retain that property until further order of the court. Upon
conviction of the person charged, all confiscated property shall be forfeited
and destroyed or otherwise disposed of, as the court may order. If the person
charged is acquitted or discharged without conviction, the court shall, on
demand, order the property to be returned to its owner. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009,
eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-20: OFFICERS' AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ANIMALS; LIEN FOR CARE:
Any law enforcement officer may take possession of any animals being treated
cruelly and, after reasonable efforts to notify the owner, may provide shelter
and care for them or upon permission of the owner destroy them. Officers caring
for animals pursuant to this section have a lien for the reasonable value of
the care and/or destruction. Any court upon proof that the owner has been
notified of the lien and amount due, at least five (5) days prior, shall order
the animal sold at public auction or destroyed. Any law enforcement officer may
humanely destroy any animal found suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose. Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment of
a veterinarian, or of two (2) reputable citizens called by him to view the
animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction from the
owner of the animal. Its owner may be cited and/or charged for impound and
sheltering fees. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-21: GENERAL REGULATIONS RELATING TO ANIMALS:
Every person within the city of Elk Ridge who owns any animal or who owns,
conducts, manages, or operates any animal establishment for which a license or
permit is required is also required by this chapter to comply with the
following standards and requirements:
   A.   Structural Strength: Housing facilities for animals shall be
structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair, to protect the
animals from injury, to contain the animals, and to restrict the entrance of
other animals.
   B.   Sufficient Food And Water: All animals shall be supplied with
sufficient good and wholesome food and fresh water as often as the feeding
habits of the respective animals require.
   C.   Sanitary Conditions: All animals and all animal buildings or enclosures
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   D.   Odor And Noise: All animals shall be so maintained so as to eliminate
excessive odor and noise.
   E.   Attention: No animal shall be without attention more than twenty four
(24) consecutive hours. Whenever an animal is left unattended at a commercial
animal facility, the telephone number of the department of animal control or
the name, address and telephone number of the responsible person shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at the front of the property. However, this
provision shall not apply to livestock. Livestock shall be attended at
reasonable intervals.
   F.   Treated Humanely: Animals shall be treated humanely and no conditions
shall be maintained or permitted that are or could be injurious to the animal.
   G.   Prevention Of Escape: Animal buildings and enclosures shall be so
constructed and maintained as to prevent escape of the animal. All reasonable
precautions shall be taken to protect the public from the animal and the animal
from the public.
   H.   Buildings Where Animals Are Maintained: Every building or enclosure
wherein animals are maintained shall be constructed of a material easily
cleaned and shall be kept in a sanitary condition. The building shall be
properly ventilated to prevent drafts and to remove odors. Heating, cooling,
and shelter shall be provided as required according to the physical need of the
animal, with sufficient light to allow observation of animals and sanitation.
   I.   Medical Treatment: Medical treatment shall be provided as necessary in
order to maintain the health of the animals.
   J.   Adequate Space And Accommodations: All animal rooms, cages, kennels,
and runs shall be of sufficient size to provide adequate and proper
accommodations for the animals kept therein.
   K.   Incompatibility Of Animals: Owners shall not allow animals which are
natural enemies, temperamentally unsuited, or otherwise incompatible to be
quartered together or so near each other as to cause injury, fear, or torment.
   L.   Wild Animals Maintained: All wild animals permitted pursuant to this
section shall be maintained in buildings, enclosed yards, or cages as specified
by the coordinator and such shall be kept at distances from adjacent buildings
as specified in section
10-18-6 of this code based on the size of the animal and the Utah County health
ordinances. Representatives of Utah County sheriff's department or other duly
designated representatives of the city and/or county may enter any premises
where animals are maintained for investigation or inspection as to whether or
not any portion of such premises, building, structure, enclosure, pen, or cage
is being used, kept, or maintained in violation of this chapter. This section
does not permit any person to enter a private dwelling except where necessary
to rescue an animal. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-22: LOSS OF PRIVILEGE TO MAINTAIN DOG IN CITY:
If the owner or custodian of any dog is convicted of any violation of this
chapter on three (3) or more different occasions during any twelve (12) month
period, the city may issue an order denying the right of the owner or custodian
to maintain a dog in the city for a period of two (2) years. Prior to final
denial of such privilege, written notice shall be sent to the owner's or
custodian's last known address informing the owner or custodian of the city's
intent to deny their privilege of maintaining a dog in the city. (Ord. 09-5, 9-
8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-23: INJURIES AND COMMUNICABLE DISEASES:
No person shall knowingly harbor or keep any dog or other animal with a serious
injury or afflicted with mange, ringworm, distemper or any other contagious
disease, unless such a dog or other animal is, in the opinion of the department
or the county veterinarian, being given adequate treatment for such disease.
The department or the county veterinarian may take immediate possession of any
such animal not being so treated or which is not responding to such treatment,
and immediately dispose of the animal unless the owner shall forthwith place
such animal under the control and treatment of a licensed veterinarian. (Ord.
09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2A-24: FEES; CHARGES:
The fees and charges which may be imposed under the provisions of this chapter
shall be as determined and established by resolution of the city council from
time to time and on file in the office of the city recorder. Where noted in
this chapter, the board of county commissioners sets fees for certain
activities. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
ARTICLE B. IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Intent
5-2B-2: Authorized
5-2B-3: Animals To Be Impounded
5-2B-4: Capture By Individuals
5-2B-5: Information Upon Relinquishment
5-2B-6: Notice To Owner
5-2B-7: Redemption By Owner
5-2B-8: Holding Period
5-2B-9: Disposal Of Unredeemed Animals
5-2B-10: Destruction Of Animals
5-2B-11: Redemption Of Unvaccinated Animals
5-2B-12: Vaccination
5-2B-13: Establishment Of Animal Disposal Facilities
5-2B-1: INTENT:
This article discusses the procedures of the city and county toward impoundment
of animals. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-2: AUTHORIZED:
The department, peace officers and persons employed for animal regulation
purposes by the county or city shall attempt to capture any animal found at
large in violation of this chapter and may destroy an animal at large if, in
their judgment, such action is required for the protection of the public health
and safety. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-3: ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED:
The following animals may be taken into custody by an animal regulation deputy
and impounded without the filing of a complaint:
   A.   Any vicious animal not properly confined as required by this chapter.
   B.   Any animal running at large.
   C.   Any unlicensed animal which is required by this chapter to be licensed.
Any animal not wearing a tag shall be presumed to be unlicensed for purposes of
this subsection, except those dogs specifically exempted.
   D.   Sick or injured animals whose owner cannot be located.
   E.   Any abandoned animal.
   F.   Animals which are not wearing a rabies vaccination tag in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   G.   Any animal to be held for quarantine.
   H.   Any animal being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-4: CAPTURE BY INDIVIDUALS:
Any person who finds an animal at large may take it into his possession and
must within twenty four (24) hours thereafter notify the department and
surrender the animal to the department upon demand. No such action shall result
in a charge against the city or the county. The finder of an animal at large
shall use reasonable care to preserve it from injury; however, the person shall
not be held liable if the animal dies, escapes or injures itself while he is
carrying out the provisions of this section except as occasioned by the
person's own negligence. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-5: INFORMATION UPON RELINQUISHMENT:
Any person who relinquishes an animal to the department shall give their name,
address and, if they are not the owner, the location where they found the
animal. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-6: NOTICE TO OWNER:
Upon receipt of a lost or stray animal bearing a current year's license tag,
the department shall immediately telephone or mail to the owner of record, at
the address indicated on the license form, a notice of the location of the
animal. Compliance with notice requirements of this section shall be deemed as
met if the department shall have mailed the notice to the owner of record at
his address of record, postage prepaid. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-7: REDEMPTION BY OWNER:
The owner of an impounded animal may claim it prior to its legal disposition by
providing proper identification, meeting all the legal requirements, and paying
the applicable redemption fees for impoundment, board, medical care,
vaccination, and/or other costs. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-8: HOLDING PERIOD:
The department shall hold an impounded lost or stray dog or cat for not less
than three (3) working days if it was not wearing a current year's license tag
when impounded and for not less than five (5) working days after notice is
given pursuant to this chapter if it was wearing a current year's license tag,
so that the owner or custodian may claim it prior to other disposition. (Ord.
09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-9: DISPOSAL OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS:
The department may dispose of humanely, or may transfer to a new owner upon
payment of the applicable fee, any impounded animal not claimed by its owner or
custodian within the prescribed holding time. Animals relinquished by their
owners may be humanely destroyed without regard to the prescribed holding time
in order to alleviate suffering or to protect other impounded animals from
exposure to a contagious disease. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-10: DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS:
When, in the judgment of the animal regulation coordinator, it is determined
that an impounded animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, disease
control or to protect the public or animal regulation personnel from imminent
danger to persons or property, such animal may be destroyed without regard to
any time limitations otherwise established herein, and without court order.
(Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-11: REDEMPTION OF UNVACCINATED ANIMALS:
All unvaccinated animals at the county animal shelter may be vaccinated before
being released. The person taking custody of the animal shall pay for the cost
of the vaccination before the animal is released. If a veterinarian is not
available then the owner of any impounded animal which has not been vaccinated
as required by this chapter upon satisfactory proof of ownership may redeem his
animal by making a deposit of ten dollars ($10.00) with the coordinator and be
allowed ten (10) days to get such animal vaccinated. If the owner fails to
procure a vaccination certificate within such ten (10) days, the deposit shall
be forfeited and the animal shall be impounded. Upon presentation within such
period of time of a certificate of vaccination issued under this chapter, the
deposit shall be refunded. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-12: VACCINATION:
Any animal impounded at the county animal shelter may be vaccinated for disease
control. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2B-13: ESTABLISHMENT OF ANIMAL DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
The department shall establish at the county animal shelter a humane procedure
for euthanasia of animals. The department may, at its option, upon payment of
applicable fees, accept animals for humane disposal. The owner or possessor of
such animals shall first complete appropriate forms setting forth the facts
constituting such ownership and/or possession, certifying that he has the right
to request disposal of such animals and agree to hold the county, its agents
and employees harmless from any liability for its acceptance and disposal of
such animals. The owner or person requesting the disposal of any animal shall
certify in writing that, to the best of his knowledge, the animal has not
bitten a human being or animal within the period established by this chapter
for isolation of biting animals and suspected rabid animals. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the department, the health officer, or the county veterinarian
may authorize, with permission of the owner if known, the euthanasia of a
biting animal for the purpose of laboratory examination. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009,
eff. 10-1-2009)
ARTICLE C. LICENSING AND REGISTRATION OF ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-2C-1: Intent
5-2C-2: Dog License
5-2C-3: Vaccination; Dogs
5-2C-4: Vaccination; Cats
5-2C-1: INTENT:
This article explains regulations regarding licensing of dogs and vaccination
of dogs and cats. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2C-2: DOG LICENSE:
All dog owners, except tourists or visitors who stay less than one month in an
area coming within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall apply for and obtain
a separate dog license for each dog they own, possess, keep, or harbor, after
it is four (4) months old. Each license shall be issued by the county or by
duly authorized veterinarians. All dog owners must possess such license at the
time the dog is four (4) months old or one month after obtaining or bringing
into an area coming within the jurisdiction of this chapter any dog over four
(4) months of age. Dog owners shall renew the dog license before it becomes
delinquent for as long as they own, possess, keep or harbor, or otherwise have
custody of the dog. If renewal is not required, dog owners shall within two (2)
months after the expiration date advise the department of the reason therefor.
Licenses not purchased or renewed within fifteen (15) days after expiration of
the date on which they become due shall be considered delinquent and a late fee
as determined by the board of county commissioners shall be added to the cost
of the new license. Any dog legally impounded according to the provisions of
this chapter shall be presumed to be a dog which, prior to impounding, required
a license, regardless of such dog's actual age or owner's place of residence.
   A.   Validity: Upon presentation by the dog owner of a properly completed
license application form including proof that the rabies vaccination will be
valid throughout the license period, the proper license fee, and if applicable,
a late or delinquent fee, the county shall issue a validated dog license. The
dog owner shall retain the dog license for inspection by any person charged
with the enforcement of this chapter. Licenses shall be valid from the date
issued until the expiration date. No dog shall be licensed without proof of
approved rabies vaccination. No license may expire later than the expiration
date of the rabies vaccination. An owner may purchase a license for twenty four
(24) months depending upon the date and kind of vaccine used upon payment of
the fee established by the board of county commissioners. In the event the
owner demonstrates proof of unexpired rabies vaccination, the license fee shall
be appropriately prorated.
Whenever a license tag is lost or damaged, the owner shall apply for and secure
a replacement from the city upon payment of the prescribed fee. Each dog
required to be licensed shall wear at all times the current license tag
assigned to that dog, except:
      1.   When the dog is participating in any dog exhibition, field trial, or
competition; or
      2.   When the dog is confined in a licensed kennel or veterinary
hospital, in which case the license tag number shall be recorded and placed
nearby so that it is readily identifiable with the dog with which it belongs;
or if not licensed, that fact shall be clearly indicated on the facility's
records. A license tag shall not be removed from any dog without the consent of
the owner thereof.
   B.   Issuance Of License: Each duly authorized person issuing a dog license
for any dog shall complete the license in triplicate. They shall keep one copy
and shall give one copy to the owner of the licensed dog, which the owner shall
retain in their possession. The person issuing the license shall file the other
copy with the county on a monthly basis.
   C.   Transfer Of License: Owners of dogs having a current license issued by
another dog licensing agency may upon proof of license issued by said agency be
issued a county dog license upon payment of the applicable transfer fee. The
rabies vaccination for any such dog must be valid for the duration of the
license issued. Whenever the ownership of a licensed dog changes, the new owner
shall apply for and obtain a transfer license and pay the applicable fee.
The address of the owner is presumed to be the address where the dog is kept.
Any change of address must be reported to the county within one month following
such change. Dog owners or the parent or guardian of minor children who sell or
otherwise transfer the ownership or custody of a dog shall within one month
thereafter inform the department of the name, address and telephone number of
the new owner and the name and description of the dog. If the ownership or
custody of a vicious dog is transferred, the owner or the parent or guardian of
minor children shall, in addition, advise the new owner in writing of the
details of the dog's record and provide the department with a copy thereof
containing an acknowledgment by the new owner of his receipt of the original.
   D.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Transient And Show Dogs: Dogs whose owners are nonresidents
temporarily within the city for thirty (30) days or less, or dogs brought into
the city for purpose of participating in any dog show.
      2.   Dog Maintained In A Kennel: Any dog which has not reached the age of
four (4) months or any dog kept or maintained exclusively in a licensed kennel
shall not be registered and no fee is required.
      3.   Seeing Eye, Hearing And Law Enforcement Dogs: Include any dog which
has been duly or properly trained to assist the blind, deaf, or law enforcement
personnel and is currently acting in that capacity.
      4.   Dogs Maintained By Impecunious Person: If any person shall furnish
evidence satisfactory to the department that such person, by reason of
unavoidable poverty, merits exemption from the payment of any fees or charges
by this article, the dog shall be registered but the department shall waive the
payment of any such fees or charges.
      5.   Service Dogs: Police service dogs. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-
2009)
5-2C-3: VACCINATION; DOGS:
Dog owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for each dog they own, keep,
harbor, or have custody of, within one month after it becomes four (4) months
of age, or within one month after obtaining any dog over four (4) months of
age. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, harbor, or
possess, or to have in his or her care, charge, or custody, any dog four (4)
months of age or over unless such dog has a current and valid rabies
vaccination administered by any duly qualified and licensed veterinarian, with
a rabies vaccine approved by the state department of health for use in dogs.
Such vaccination shall be repeated at intervals specified by the state
department of health in order to maintain adequate immunity.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a dog need not be
vaccinated for rabies during an illness if a licensed veterinarian has examined
the dog and certified in writing that such vaccination should be postponed
because of a specified illness. Old age, debility and pregnancy are not
considered contraindications to rabies vaccination. Exemption certificates are
subject to approval by the department and shall be valid only for the duration
of the illness. Exemption from vaccination does not exempt a dog from the
licensing requirement. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2C-4: VACCINATION; CATS:
Cat owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for each cat they own, keep,
harbor, or have custody of, within one month after it becomes four (4) months
of age, or within one month after obtaining any cat over four (4) months of
age. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, harbor, or
possess, or to have in his or her care, charge, or custody, any cat four (4)
months of age or over unless such cat has a current and valid rabies
vaccination administered by any duly qualified and licensed veterinarian, with
a rabies vaccine approved by the state department of health for use in cats.
Such vaccination shall be repeated at intervals specified by the state
department of health in order to maintain adequate immunity. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-
2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
ARTICLE D. RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2D-1: Intent
5-2D-2: Report Of Bites
5-2D-3: Report Of Suspected Rabid Animals
5-2D-4: Quarantine For Ten Days For Biting Or Suspected Rabid Animals
5-2D-5: Examination Of Head
5-2D-6: Domesticated Animals
5-2D-7: Release
5-2D-8: Animals Possibly Exposed To Rabies
5-2D-1: INTENT:
This article lists the procedures and requirements dealing with rabies. (Ord.
09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2D-2: REPORT OF BITES:
All persons bitten and the parents or guardians of minor children bitten by a
dog, cat, skunk, fox, bat, coyote, bobcat, or other animal known to constitute
a serious threat of rabies shall notify the department or city-county health
department immediately thereafter. Physicians treating such bites and other
persons having the knowledge of such bites shall also be required to make such
notification. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2D-3: REPORT OF SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS:
Any person who observes or has knowledge of an animal which shows symptoms of
rabies or which acts in a manner which would lead to a reasonable suspicion
that it may have rabies shall notify the department or city-county health
department and comply with appropriate laws and regulations regarding suspected
cases of rabies as directed by the department or city-county health department.
(Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2D-4: QUARANTINE FOR TEN DAYS FOR BITING OR SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS:
Upon the reasonable order of the department or public health officer, a biting
or suspected rabid animal shall be, at the owner's expense if owned, in strict
confinement under proper care and under the observation of a licensed
veterinarian in an animal shelter, veterinary hospital, or other adequate
facility in a manner approved by the department or city-county health
department. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2D-5: EXAMINATION OF HEAD:
Any biting or suspected rabid animal or bat may be humanely euthanized
immediately by the department or the health department, and such animal's
undamaged and properly packaged and properly refrigerated head shall be
delivered promptly to an approved medical facility having the capability of
performing the fluorescent antibody test to demonstrate the presence of rabies.
(Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2D-6: DOMESTICATED ANIMALS:
If the biting or suspected rabid animal is of the domesticated variety that is
owned or obviously could have an owner, said animal shall be confined for a
period of ten (10) days to allow time for an attempt to locate an owner unless
the county veterinarian or other licensed veterinarian shall reasonably deem it
necessary to sacrifice the animal for the purpose of laboratory examination.
(Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2D-7: RELEASE:
Ten (10) days after the day of infliction of a bite by an animal, said animal
may be released to its owner or sold by the department after a licensed
veterinarian has examined that animal and in his opinion found it not to have
had rabies in a transmittable state on the day of infliction of said bite.
Nonimmunized animals shall be vaccinated for rabies before release to owner.
(Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
5-2D-8: ANIMALS POSSIBLY EXPOSED TO RABIES:
Any animal of a species subject to rabies which has been bitten by a known
rabid animal or bat, or which has been in intimate contact with such an animal,
shall be isolated, at the owner's expense if owned, in strict confinement in a
place and manner approved by the department or public health officer and
observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of six (6) months or
destroyed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following alternative is
permitted in case of dogs and cats. If the dog or cat has been vaccinated
against rabies at least thirty (30) days prior to the suspected exposure with a
type of vaccine produced under USDA license and within the time period approved
by the state veterinarian, the dog or cat may be revaccinated in a manner
prescribed by the department or the health department and isolated in strict
confinement in a place and manner approved by the department or public health
officer and observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of thirty (30)
days. (Ord. 09-5, 9-8-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS; CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Curfew Specified
5-3-4: Parental Liability
5-3-5: Exceptions
5-3-6: Violations
5-3-7: Penalty
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
The city council, in concert with the governing body of Utah County, finds, due
to a seemingly ever increasing incidence of violence and other crime among
juveniles in Utah County, being both drug related and gang related, that such
crimes may be significantly inhibited and reduced by the enactment and
enforcement of local laws establishing a curfew prohibiting juveniles from
remaining idly and purposelessly on the public streets late at night. (Ord. 94-
1-25-1, 1-25-1994)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CARE AND CUSTODY: The legal authority of a parent or guardian to supervise or
otherwise be responsible for a minor, or the express authority given from such
parent or legal guardian of a minor to a responsible adult to supervise or
otherwise be responsible for the activities and care of the minor.
EMERGENCY ERRAND: Any errand or travel undertaken to directly and immediately
seek to prevent or reduce the consequences of an illness or injury, criminal or
potentially criminal activity, or fire or other accident and shall include the
seeking of aid and assistance from medical or emergency response personnel or
the purchase of medications.
MINOR: Any unmarried, unemancipated person who is not a member of the armed
forces of the United States and who is under the age of sixteen (16) years for
the purpose of subsection
5-3-3A of this chapter, or who is under the age of eighteen (18) years for the
purpose of subsection
5-3-3B of this chapter.
PUBLIC PLACES: Any place open to the public, whether publicly or privately
owned, including, but not limited to, parking lots and the interiors and
exteriors of commercial establishments such as restaurants, stores or places of
entertainment. (Ord. 94-1-25-1, 1-25-1994; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3-3: CURFEW SPECIFIED:
   A.   Sixteen Years: It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of
sixteen (16) years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets,
alleys or public places in the city, between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following morning. (Ord. 94-1-25-1,
1-25-1994)
   B.   Eighteen Years: It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of
eighteen (18) years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets,
alleys or public places in the city, between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following morning, Sunday through
Thursday, and between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) A.M the following morning, Friday through Saturday. (Ord. 94-1-25-1, 1-25-
1994; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3-4: PARENTAL LIABILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having care and
custody of any minor to knowingly allow or permit the minor to violate the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 94-1-25-1, 1-25-1994)
5-3-5: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of the chapter shall not apply to any circumstance in which the
minor is:
   A.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other responsible adult having
care and custody of such minor;
   B.   Engaged in a legitimate trade, employment or occupation which requires
the minor's presence in or on the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places
while working at or traveling to or from such employment;
   C.   Engaged on an emergency errand directed by the minor's parent, guardian
or other responsible person having care and custody of such minor;
   D.   In a motor vehicle engaged in normal interstate travel beginning in,
traveling through, or ending in the city;
   E.   Attending or engaged in traveling between the minor's home or place of
residence and a place where any religious, municipal, social, entertainment,
sporting, political, library or school function is occurring; or
   F.   Within the boundaries of the minor's place of residence. (Ord. 94-1-25-
1, 1-25-1994)
5-3-6: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any minor who is in violation of the provisions of this chapter is
subject to arrest and citation.
   B.   Upon arrest, the minor shall be returned to the custody of the parent,
guardian or other person charged with the care and custody of the minor.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person charged
with the care and custody of a minor who is in violation of this chapter to
knowingly refuse to appear and take custody of said minor within a reasonable
time after being ordered to do so by a peace officer. (Ord. 94-1-25-1, 1-25-
1994)
5-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 94-1-25-1, 1-25-1994; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Traffic Control
6-1-4: Golf Carts
6-1-5: Snow Removal
6-1-6: Penalty
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The Utah criminal and traffic code 1 , as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as the criminal and traffic code of the city. Where a citation or
information is issued under this chapter, it shall be sufficient to use the
section number of the Utah code to designate the section number of the city
code which has been violated. One copy has been filed for use and examination
by the public in the office of the city recorder.
(Ord. 96-9-24-7, 9-24-1996; amd. 2003 Code; amd. Ord. 20-06, 4-14-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1-1 of this code.
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in the traffic code to:
   A.   “Golf carts” means a device that:
      1.   Is designed for transportation by players on a golf course;
      2.   Has not less than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground;
      3.   Has an unladen weight of less than one thousand eight hundred
(1,800) pounds;
      4.   Is designed to operate at low speeds; and
      5.   Is designed to carry not more than six (6) persons including the
driver.
      6.   “Golf cart” does not include:
         a.   A low-speed vehicle or an off-highway vehicle;
         b.   A motorized wheelchair;
         c.   An electric personal assistive mobility device;
         d.   An electric assisted bicycle;
         e.   A motor assisted scooter;
         f.   A personal delivery device, as defined in Section 41-6a-1119 Utah
Code;
         g.   A mobile carrier, as defined in Section 41-6a-1120 Utah Code.
   B.   The "state road commission" or "state department of transportation"
shall mean the city and its officers, departments, agencies and agents.
   C.   "Local authorities" shall mean the city council.
   D.   The "department of public safety of the state of Utah" shall mean the
chief of the current law enforcement agency of the city or its agent.
   E.   "Magistrate" shall mean the justice court judge or judge with
jurisdiction within the municipal boundaries.
(Ord. 83-4, 6-29-1983, eff. 8-9-1983; amd. 2003 Code; amd. Ord. 20-06, 4-14-
2020)
6-1-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Prima Facie Speed; Designated Streets:
      1.   When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs giving notice
of speeds are posted, the prima facie maximum speed limits designated upon said
signs shall apply to the appropriate streets or portions of streets so posted.
      2.   In the absence of any speed limit sign designating a speed limit
applicable thereto, the prima facie speed limit shall be twenty five (25) miles
per hour.
   B.   Through Streets Designated: When appropriate traffic control or
regulatory signs are posted at entrances to intersections identifying them as
stop or yield entrances, such streets are hereby declared to be stop entrances
and yield entrances as designated by said signs.
   C.   Angle Parking: When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs are
posted permitting angle parking, angle parking shall be permitted on the
streets or parts of streets so posted at the angle designated by the sign.
   D.   Designation Of Streets And Intersections To Be Posted: The city council
shall designate the places at which appropriate traffic control devices or
regulatory signs shall be placed relating to maximum speed limits, angle
parking, through streets, stop and yield intersections and other regulations
governing traffic.
(Ord. 83-4, 6-29-1983, eff. 8-9-1983; amd. Ord. 20-06, 4-14-2020)
6-1-4: GOLF CARTS:
Operation on highways, Registration, licensing requirements, titling, and
taxes.
   A.   Under Section 41-6a and Section 10-8-30 Utah Code, a municipality may,
by ordinance, allow a person to operate a golf cart on specified highways under
the jurisdiction of the municipality.
   B.   A golf cart may be operated on any city street or roadway within the
boundaries of Elk Ridge City except north Elk Ridge Drive from of the
roundabout to 11200.   
   C.   The operator of a golf cart must adhere to all traffic rules as defined
in Section 41-6a Utah Code (Traffic Code).
   D.   The operator of a golf cart is prohibited from drinking alcohol or have
an an open container of alcohol on board, 41-6a-5 Utah Code (Driving Under the
Influence and Reckless Driving), while operating a golf cart on any city
street, roadway, trail, public or quasi-public area within Elk Ridge City.
   E.   Each person riding on a golf cart must occupy a seat. No more than one
(1) person can occupy a seat regardless of age. Allowing more passengers to
ride than there are seats on the golf cart is prohibited.
   F.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) may operate a golf cart on any
city street, roadway, trail, public or quasi-public space.
   G.   A golf cart must not be operated after civil twilight at sunset or
before civil twilight at sunrise on any city street, roadway, trail, public, or
quasi-public area.
   H.   A golf cart is exempt from the requirements of:
      1.   Titling, odometer statement, vehicle identification, license plates,
and registration as defined under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Utah Code (Motor
Vehicle Act).
      2.   The county motor vehicle emissions inspection and maintenance
programs under Section 41-6a-1642 Utah Code (Emission Inspection)
      3.   Motor vehicle insurance under Title 41, Chapter 12a Utah Code.
(Financial Responsibility of Motor Vehicle Owners and Operators Act).
      4.   Driver licensing under Title 53, Chapter 3, Utah Code (Uniform
Driver License Act).
      5.   The uniform statewide fee described in Section 59-2-405.2 Utah Code.
(Ord. 20-06, 4-14-2020)
6-1-5: SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   Parking Prohibited For Snow Removal: In order to facilitate efficient
and safe removal of snow from city streets, it is unlawful for the owner or
driver of any motorized or nonmotorized vehicle, trailer, boat, or other
transportation device, to be parked on the street or within city right of way
during snow removal activities. Any vehicle that is parked in violation of this
section may, without prior notice, be removed immediately at the owner’s
expense.
   B.   Placing or Pushing Snow Upon any City Street or property is Prohibited:
It is unlawful for any person removing snow or ice from a sidewalk or driveway
to place or deposit said snow upon any city street or property. It is unlawful
to push snow or ice across any city street or property. Violation of this code
can result in fines and citations.
(Ord. 17-1, 1-10-2017; amd. Ord. 18-10, 12-11-2018; Ord. 20-06, 4-14-2020; Ord.
23-02, 3-28-2023)
6-1-6: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided, any person violating, causing or permitting
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense as
provided in state statute.
(Ord. 83-4, 6-29-1983, eff. 8-9-1983; amd. 2003 Code; amd. Ord. 20-06, 4-14-
2020)
CHAPTER 2
OFF ROAD VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Operator Age And Limitations
6-2-3: State Statute Regulations
6-2-4: Age Limitations Under Sixteen Years
6-2-5: Permissions And Limitations
6-2-6: Standards
6-2-7: Helmet Law
6-2-8: Vehicle Registration
6-2-9: Speed Limits
6-2-10: Private Property
6-2-11: Husbandry Equipment
6-2-12: Penalties
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section:
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE I VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle fifty two inches (52") or less in
width, having an unladen weight of eight hundred (800) pounds or less,
traveling on three (3) or more low pressure tires, having a seat designed to be
straddled by the operator, and designed for or capable of travel over
unimproved terrain.
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE II VEHICLE: Any other motor vehicle, not defined in the
definitions of All-Terrain Type I Vehicle and Motorcycle of this section,
designed for or capable of travel over unimproved terrain. This term does not
include golf carts, any vehicle designed to carry a disabled person, and
vehicle not specifically designed for recreation use, or farm tractors as
defined by state law.
LOW PRESSURE TIRE: Any pneumatic tire six inches (6") or more in width designed
for use on wheels with rim diameter of twelve inches (12") or less and
utilizing an operating pressure of ten (10) pounds per square inch or less as
recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.
MANUFACTURER: A person engaged in the business of manufacturing off highway
vehicles.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for use of the operator and
designed to travel on not more than two (2) tires.
OFF HIGHWAY IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: Every all-terrain type I vehicle,
motorcycle, or snowmobile which is used by the owner or his agent for
agricultural operations.
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any snowmobile, all-terrain type I vehicle, all-terrain
type II vehicle, or motorcycle.
OPERATE: To control the movement of or otherwise use an off highway vehicle.
OPERATOR: The person who is in actual physical control of an off highway
vehicle.
ROADWAY: That portion of a public street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic, exclusive of the sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even though
any of them are used by persons riding bicycles or other human powered
vehicles.
STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way or place of
whatever nature, when any part of it is open to the use of the public for
vehicular travel. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-2: OPERATOR AGE AND LIMITATIONS:
Any licensed driver (16 years old and older) may operate an all- terrain
vehicle. Any operator under the age of sixteen (16) must have a permit obtained
from the state of Utah showing completion of the Utah OHV education course.
This course is offered through the Utah division of parks and recreation.
Operators under the age of eight (8) are not allowed to operate any off highway
vehicle on public roadways within the city limits. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-2008,
eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-3: STATE STATUTE REGULATIONS:
As provided by Utah Code Annotated 1953 section 41-22-10.5:
   A.   As amended, all public streets in the city are hereby designated as off
highway vehicle use for the specific purpose of allowing off highway vehicle
operators to gain direct access to or from a private or public area open for
off highway vehicle use.
   B.   A person may operate an off highway vehicle on any public street for
any purpose including gaining direct access to or from a private or public area
open for off highway vehicle use.
   C.   Subsection B of this section does not apply to off highway implements
of husbandry used in accordance with section
6-2-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-4: AGE LIMITATIONS UNDER SIXTEEN YEARS:
Persons eight (8) through fifteen (15) years of age shall not operate an off
highway vehicle on any public street unless the person is under the direct
visual supervision; as defined in Utah code section 41-22-30 which means
oversight at a distance of not more than three hundred feet (300'), within
which visual contact is maintained; and advice and assistance can be given and
maintained of an adult at least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-
2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-5: PERMISSIONS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   A person may not operate and an owner may not give that person
permission to operate an off highway vehicle on any public street unless the
person: 1) is under the direct supervision of a certified off highway vehicle
safety instructor during a scheduled training course; 2) has in his possession
the appropriate safety certificate issued by the Utah division of parks and
recreation; or 3) has in his immediate possession a valid motor vehicle
operators license issued pursuant to the Utah uniform driver license act.
   B.   Violation of subsection A of this section is an infraction for which
the punishment shall be fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) per
offense.
   C.   It is a defense to a charge under subsection A of this section, if the
person charged produces in court a license or appropriate safety certificate
that was: 1) valid at the time of citation or arrest, and 2) issued to the
person operating the off highway vehicle.
   D.   Operators under the age of sixteen (16) must obtain permission only
from their parents or legal guardians. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-31-
2008)
6-2-6: STANDARDS:
   A.   A person may not operate an off highway vehicle in the city unless the
vehicle is equipped with: 1) brakes adequate to control the movement of and
stop and hold the vehicle under normal operating conditions; 2) headlights and
taillights when operated between sunset and sunrise; and 3) a noise control
device and, except for a snowmobile, a spark arrestor device.
   B.   The standards for equipment required in subsection A of this section
shall be the standards established by the Utah board of parks and recreation
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 1953 section 41-22-10.7(2), as amended.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall authorize a person to operate an off
highway vehicle in violation of any other ordinance limiting noise levels or
prohibiting disturbing the peace.
   D.   An off highway implement of husbandry used only in agricultural
operations and not operated on a public street is exempt from the provisions of
subsections A and B of this section.
   E.   Any all-terrain vehicle that is street legal as defined in the Utah
code section 41-6a-1509; may be operated day or night and shall be equipped
with the following:
      1.   One or more headlamps that meet the requirements of section 41-6a-
1603;
      2.   One or more taillamps;
      3.   A taillamp or other lamp constructed and placed to illuminate the
registration plate with a white light;
      4.   One or more red reflectors on the rear;
      5.   One or more stop lamps on the rear;
      6.   Amber electric turn signals, one on each side of the front and the
rear;
      7.   A braking system, other than a parking brake, that meets the
requirements of section 41-6a-1623;
      8.   A horn or other warning device that meets the requirements of
section 41-6a-1625;
      9.   A muffler and emission control system that meets the requirements of
section 41-6a-1626;
      10.   Rearview mirrors on the right and left side of the driver in
accordance with section 41-6a-1627;
      11.   A windshield, unless the operator wears eye protection while
operating the vehicle;
      12.   A speedometer, illuminated for nighttime operation;
      13.   For vehicles designed by the manufacturer for carrying one or more
passengers, a seat designed for passengers, including a footrest and handhold
for each passenger; and
      14.   For vehicles with side by side seating, seatbelts for each vehicle
occupant. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-7: HELMET LAW:
   A.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may not operate or ride
on all-terrain type I vehicles, snowmobiles, or motorcycles on any public
street unless the person is wearing a properly fitted and fastened United
States department of transportation safety rated protective headgear designed
for motorized vehicle use.
   B.   The owner of an off highway vehicle or any other person may not give
permission to a person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to operate or
ride on an off highway vehicle in violation of subsection A of this section.
   C.   An operator and passengers of off highway implements of husbandry
operated in the manner prescribed in section
6-2-11 of this chapter are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   D.   Violation of this section is an infraction for which the punishment
shall be fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) per offense. (Ord. 08-16,
11-25-2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-8: VEHICLE REGISTRATION:
Unless exempted by state law, a person may not operate and an owner may not
give another person permission to operate any off highway vehicle unless the
off highway vehicle has been registered as required by state law and the decals
provided by state law are properly displayed on the vehicle. (Ord. 08-16, 11-
25-2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-9: SPEED LIMITS:
When operating an off highway vehicle on a public street as permitted by this
section, the operator shall obey all rules and regulations applicable to
conventional motor vehicles using the public street as posted except that the
speed limit for all all- terrain vehicles must not exceed twenty (20) miles per
hour. Any all-terrain vehicle traveling more than twenty (20) miles per hour
will be in violation of this provision and will be cited with a speed
infraction consistent with and punishable according to the general motor
vehicle rules. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-10: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall operate or accompany a person operating an off highway
vehicle upon privately owned land of any other person, firm, or corporation
without permission from the owner or person in charge.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person operating or accompanying a person
operating an off highway vehicle to refuse to immediately leave private land
upon request of the owner or person in charge of such land.
   C.   Subsections A and B of this section shall not apply to prescriptive
easements on privately owned land.
   D.   No person operating or accompanying a person operating an off highway
vehicle shall obstruct any entrance to or exit from private property without
the property owner's permission. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-11: HUSBANDRY EQUIPMENT:
A person may operate an off highway implement of husbandry adjacent to the
roadway on a public street as provided by state law. If the operation of an off
highway implement of husbandry adjacent to a roadway is impractical, it may be
operated on the roadway if the operator exercises due care toward conventional
motor vehicle traffic. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
6-2-12: PENALTIES:
Unless another penalty is provided for violation of a specific section of this
chapter, any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
class C misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of not to exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed
ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 08-16, 11-25-
2008, eff. 12-31-2008)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; USE AND CONTROL
SECTION:
7-1-1: Unlawful Use
7-1-2: Repair After Unlawful Use
7-1-3: Franchise; Easement
7-1-4: Acts Exempted
7-1-1: UNLAWFUL USE:
Unless authorized by permit or other written authorization issued by the city
or unless authority is granted by provisions of this code or other ordinance of
the city now or hereafter enacted, it shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to: (Ord. 86-3, 4-8-1986, eff. 4-15-1986;
amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   Property Controlled By City: Construct, lay, excavate, erect, operate
or maintain over, under, across, in or through any property owned or controlled
by the city, any utility, canal, ditch, construction or building.
   B.   Restricted Areas: Enter upon any property of the city contrary to any
posting or marking restricting or prohibiting use of the area.
   C.   Damage To Property: Intentionally use or perform acts upon property of
the city which materially impair, alter or damage the property. (Ord. 86-3, 4-
8-1986, eff. 4-15-1986)
7-1-2: REPAIR AFTER UNLAWFUL USE:
The city council, in addition to any other penalty which may be imposed, may
order any person who has damaged, altered or changed any property of the city
to repair or restore the property to its original condition prior to the
damage, alteration or change. (Ord. 86-3, 4-8-1986, eff. 4-15-1986)
7-1-3: FRANCHISE; EASEMENT:
   A.   Provisions: The city council may grant to any person a franchise or
easement on such terms and conditions as it deems reasonable, for the purpose
of entering upon, constructing, building, operating and maintaining any
business or for other use of the property of the city, and the provisions of
sections
7-1-1 and
7-1-2 of this chapter shall not apply to the extent such provisions are waived,
qualified or made inapplicable to the rights or privileges granted in the
franchise ordinance or easement.
   B.   In Writing: Any franchise or easement granted by the city shall be in
writing, and any franchise or easement not in writing shall be void. (Ord. 86-
3, 4-8-1986, eff. 4-15-1986)
7-1-4: ACTS EXEMPTED:
It shall not be a violation of this chapter where any person uses the public
property of the city in the manner or for the purpose for which such property
has been made available for public use. (Ord. 86-3, 4-8-1986, eff. 4-15-1986)
CHAPTER 2
BURIED UTILITY LINES; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Depth; Included Lines
7-2-2: Encasing Of Fiber Optic Lines
7-2-3: Detection Methods
7-2-4: Penalty
7-2-1: DEPTH; INCLUDED LINES:
All utility lines within the city limits are to be buried a minimum of thirty
six inches (36") below the ground level. This includes natural gas lines,
electrical lines, telephone lines, water lines, cable television lines, sewer
lines and any other utility type lines. (Ord. 94-7-26-4, 6-26-1994)
7-2-2: ENCASING OF FIBER OPTIC LINES:
All fiber optic lines are to be encased within plastic tubing or conduit, with
six inches (6") of sand above the conduit, with a yellow warning tape on top of
the sand. (Ord. 94-7-26-4, 6-26-1994)
7-2-3: DETECTION METHODS:
All lines which cannot be detected by the use of a metal detector, are to have
a metal wire buried with the lines to allow detection for repairs or
excavation. (Ord. 94-7-26-4, 6-26-1994)
7-2-4: PENALTY:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as a class C
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 94-7-26-4, 6-26-1994; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND UTILITY RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Findings And Intent; Authority
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Administration; General Provisions
7-3-4: Applicability; Exceptions
7-3-5: Franchise Required
7-3-6: Application For Franchise
7-3-7: Compensation, Fees And Payments
7-3-8: Insurance, Record Requirements
7-3-9: Construction, Technical Requirements
7-3-10: Private Property; Obligation To Notify
7-3-11: Transfer Of Franchise And License
7-3-12: Enforcement; Rights Of City
7-3-13: Severability
7-3-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT; AUTHORITY:
   A.   Rights Of Way: The city finds that the rights of way within the city:
      1.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the business and social life of the city;
      2.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      3.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and other
public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered for
profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general economic well-
being of the city and its citizens; and
      4.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation and maintenance in the rights of way.
   B.   Compensation: The city council finds that the city should receive fair
and reasonable compensation for use of the rights of way.
   C.   Local Concern: The city finds that while telecommunications systems are
in part an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve
rights of way, municipal franchising and vital business and community service,
which are of local concern.
   D.   Promotion Of Telecommunications Services: The city council finds that
it is in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote the rapid
development of telecommunications and utility services, on a nondiscriminatory
basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to assure availability
for municipal, educational and community services.
   E.   Franchise Standards: The city finds that it is in the interests of the
public to franchise and to establish standards for franchising providers in a
manner that:
      1.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the city on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
      2.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights of way to serve the public;
      3.   Fully protects the public interests and the city from any harm that
may flow from such commercial use of rights of way;
      4.   Protects the police powers and rights of way management authority of
the city, in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
      5.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use
of the city infrastructure;
      6.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the rights of
way; and
      7.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication services, within
the meaning of the telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. No. 104-104)
(hereinafter "the act").
   F.   Power To Manage Rights Of Way: The city adopts this telecommunications
and utility chapter pursuant to its power to manage the rights of way, pursuant
to common law, the Utah constitution and statutory authority, and receive fair
and reasonable compensation for the use of rights of way by providers as
expressly set forth by section 253 of the act. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights of way of all, or a
part, of the city. An application includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the city concerning: the construction of a telecommunications and utility
system over, under, on or through the rights of way; the telecommunications
services proposed to be provided in the city by a provider; and any other
matter pertaining to a proposed system or service.
CITY: Elk Ridge City, Utah.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the city.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group of
persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control or
controlling interest", as used herein, may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
FCC: The federal communications commission or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligations extended by the city to a provider to
own, lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights of way
within the boundaries of the city. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include:
   A.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city;
   B.   Any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection
with operations on rights of way or public property, including, without
limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits
or other structures, whether owned by the city or a private entity, or for
excavating or performing other work in or along the rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter between the city and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26,
as amended.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication and utility services to customers, all or part of
the necessary system which uses the rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to section 651 et seq., of the
telecommunications act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fiber, microwave, laser beams and any associated converters, equipment,
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the city.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND UTILITY ORDINANCE: This telecommunications
and utility chapter concerning the granting of franchises in and by the city
for the construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a
telecommunications and utility system.
PSC: The public service commission or any successor thereto.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust or any other legal entity, but not the city.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the act (47 USC 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is commonly
known as cellular and PSC services that do not install any system or portion of
a system in the rights of way.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller or system lessee.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a
system for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or
lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the city.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser
or radio frequency energy or optical information, in either analog or digital
format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OR UTILITY SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment,
wire and appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider, located in the
rights of way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully
digital or analog, voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced
telecommunications services. Telecommunications system or systems also includes
an open video system.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES: Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the city that the provider is authorized to
provide under federal, state and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the city, except
that these terms do not include "cable service", as defined in the cable
communications policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable television consumer
protection and competition act of 1992 (47 USC 521 et seq.) and the
telecommunications act of 1996. Telecommunications service or services also
includes an open video service.
WIRE: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
7-3-3: ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   B.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the city to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently or economically serve itself or the public. (Ord. 97-
12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
   C.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the city required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the mayor. A provider shall provide in
any application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number of the
person designated to receive notices from the city. A provider shall
immediately notify the city of any change in its name, address or telephone
number. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the city reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers.
   E.   Construction:
      1.   Federal And State Statutes: This chapter shall be construed in a
manner consistent with all applicable federal and state statutes.
      2.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or
renewed after the effective date hereof. This chapter shall further apply, to
the extent permitted by applicable federal or state law, to all existing
franchises granted prior to the effective date hereof and to a provider
providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective date hereof.
      3.   Other Applicable Ordinances: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the city zoning
and other land use requirements.
      4.   City Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the city
to enforce prompt compliance.
      5.   Construed According To Utah Law: This chapter and any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance
with the substantive laws of the state. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
7-3-4: APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Providers: This chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for
providers of telecommunications and utility services and systems that require
the use of the rights of way, including providers of both the system and
service, those providers of the system only and those providers who do not
build the system but who only provide services. This chapter shall apply to all
future providers and to all providers in the city prior to the effective date
hereof, whether operating with or without a franchise, as set forth in
subsection
7-3-3E2 of this chapter.
   B.   Excluded Activities:
      1.   Cable Television Operators: This chapter shall not apply to cable
television operators otherwise regulated by the franchise agreement between the
city and a cable television company.
      2.   Wireless Service Facilities: This chapter shall not apply to
personal wireless service facilities.
   C.   Excluded Providers; Provisions Applicable: Providers excused by other
law that prohibits the city from requiring a franchise shall not be required to
obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this chapter through
the exercise of the city's police power and not preempted by other law shall be
applicable. (Ord. 16-3, 9-13-2016)
7-3-5: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   Nonexclusive Franchise; Authority: The city is empowered and authorized
to issue nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction and
maintenance of systems in the city's rights of way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider.
   B.   Provider Required To Obtain: Except to the extent preempted by federal
or state law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to
constructing a telecommunications or utility system or providing
telecommunications or utility services using the rights of way, and every
provider must obtain a franchise before constructing an open video system or
providing open video services via an open video system. Any open video system
or service shall be subject to the customer service and consumer protection
provisions applicable to the cable TV company's franchise to the extent the
city is not preempted or permitted as ultimately interpreted by a court of
competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The fact that particular
telecommunications systems may be used for multiple purposes does not obviate
the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By way of illustration and
not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must obtain a cable
franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications services over
the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights of way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights of
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the city's property. This subsection shall not be
construed to prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so
long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   D.   Current Providers; Time Limit To Request: Except to the extent exempted
by federal or state law, any provider acting without a franchise on the
effective date hereof shall request issuance of a franchise from the city
within ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof. If such request is made,
the provider may continue providing service during the course of negotiations.
If a timely request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is
not granted, the provider shall comply with the provisions of subsection
7-3-12D of this chapter.
   E.   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights of way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the city, upon the written request of the city,
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G.   Term: No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of
less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
7-3-6: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE:
   A.   Required; Form: To obtain a franchise to construct, own, maintain or
provide services through any system within the city, to obtain a renewal of a
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter or to obtain the city approval of a
transfer of a franchise, as provided in subsection
7-3-11A2 of this chapter, granted pursuant to this chapter, an application must
be filed with city on the form attached to the ordinance codified herein as
exhibit A, which is hereby incorporated by reference. The application form may
be changed by the mayor so long as such changes request information that is
consistent with this chapter. Such application form, as amended, is
incorporated by reference.
   B.   Criteria: In making a determination as to an application filed pursuant
to this chapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to, request the
following from the provider:
      1.   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity.
      2.   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
city for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights of way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider.
      3.   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of section
7-3-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Determination By City: The city, in its discretion, shall determine the
award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations relevant
to the use of the rights of way, without competitive bidding. (Ord. 97-12-9-15,
12-9-1997)
7-3-7: COMPENSATION, FEES AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation; Provider Obligations: As fair and reasonable compensation
for any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the
following obligations: (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
      1.   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the city to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city, at the time of application, a
nonrefundable application fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Franchise Fee: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
business license tax enacted by the city.
      3.   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Due Monthly: Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Statement Of Calculation; Certification: Unless a franchise agreement
provides otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement
showing the manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to
its accuracy.
   D.   Future Costs: A provider shall pay to the city, or to third parties at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the city incurs for the services of third parties
(including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider initiated renegotiation, or amendment of this
chapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, either party may submit the issue to binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American
arbitration association.
   E.   Taxes, Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the city on the use of the city
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights of way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   G.   Acceptance Of Fee; Not Construed Satisfaction: No acceptance by the
city of any fee shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact
the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed
as a release of any claim the city may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Additional Taxes Or Fees Still Applicable: The fee payment is not a
payment in lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment, except as specifically
provided in this chapter or as required by applicable law. By way of example,
and not limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the city
owned poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Operation After Term; Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event
a provider continues to operate all or any part of the system after the term of
the franchise, such operator shall continue to comply with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation,
all compensation and other payment provisions throughout the period of such
continued operation; provided, that any such continued operation shall in no
way be construed as a renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a
limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the city as a result of such
continued operation after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and
restitution.
   J.   Publication Costs: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (Ord. 97-12-9-15,
12-9-1997)
7-3-8: INSURANCE, RECORD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance Required: Prior to the execution of a franchise, a provider
will deposit with the city an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit or
surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and shall obtain and
provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the franchise. A provider
shall also indemnify the city as set forth in the franchise.
   B.   Inspection By City; Management: The city shall have the right to
oversee, regulate and inspect periodically the construction, maintenance and
upgrade of the system, and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions
of the franchise and applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain
managerial and operational records, standards, procedures and controls to
enable a provider to prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the
city at all times throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with
the franchise. A provider shall retain such records for not less than the
applicable statute of limitations.
   C.   Records Maintenance: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the city, a full and complete set of plans, records and
as built hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an electronic
format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the city's
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights of way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks, which shall include annotations of all rights of
way where work will be undertaken. As used herein, as built maps include file
construction prints. Maps shall be drawn to scale. As built maps, including the
compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be submitted within
thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30) days after
completion of modification and repairs. As built maps are not required of the
provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the existing system to
the extent they do not exist.
      2.   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the city at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the city reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state and generally accepted accounting principles
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   D.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah government records access and
management act (GRAMA), making it available only to those who must have access
to perform their duties on behalf of the city; provided, that a provider
notifies the city of, and clearly labels the information which a provider deems
to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling
shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right Of Inspection: For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
city at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records; provided, that the city shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the city the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the
compensation due the city for the period of such audit. In the event the
accounting rendered to the city by the provider herein is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the city may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the city
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
7-3-9: CONSTRUCTION, TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required; Excavation Permit: No provider shall receive a
franchise unless it agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this
section governing construction and technical requirements for its system, in
addition to any other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the
city or the franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in
the cost of locating portions of the system with other systems or with city
utilities. A provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to the
excavation ordinance, as provided in chapter 4 of this title, before commencing
any work in the rights of way.
   B.   Quality And Performance Of Work: All work involved in the construction,
maintenance, repair, upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a
safe, thorough and reliable manner, using materials of good and durable
quality. If, at any time, it is determined by the FCC or any other agency
granted authority by federal law or the FCC to make such determination, that
any part of the system, including, without limitation, any means used to
distribute signals over or within the system, is harmful to the public health,
safety or welfare, or quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall,
at its own cost and expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the city to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines; Excavation Requirements: If the grades or lines
of any rights of way are changed at any time in a manner affecting the system,
then a provider shall comply with the requirements of the excavation ordinance,
as provided in chapter 4 of this title.
      2.   Emergency; City Authority To Move System: The city may, at any time,
in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the city in its
reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances
on, over or under the rights of way of the city, in which event the city shall
not be liable therefor to a provider. The city shall notify a provider in
writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible and in
no case later than the next business day following any action taken under this
section. Notice shall be given as provided in subsection
7-3-3C of this chapter.
      3.   Temporary Move For Third Party: A provider shall, upon prior
reasonable written notice by the city or any person holding a permit to move
any structure, and within the time that is reasonable under the circumstances,
temporarily move any part of its system to permit the moving of said structure.
A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any person other than the city for
any such movement of its systems.
      4.   Change In Rights Of Way; Obligation To Move System: When the city is
changing a right of way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the right of way, without cost to the city, to
the extent provided in the excavation ordinance, as provided in chapter 4 of
this title. This obligation does not apply to systems originally located on
private property pursuant to a private easement, which property was later
incorporated into the rights of way, if that private easement grants a superior
vested right. This obligation exists whether or not the provider has obtained
an excavation permit.
   E.   Protection Of Structures, Landmarks: In connection with the
construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider
shall, at its own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures
belonging to the city or any other constructed item within the right of way. A
provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the city to alter any water
main, power facility, sewerage or drainage system, or any other municipal or
private structure on, over or under the rights of way of the city required
because of the presence of the system. Any such alteration shall be made by the
city or its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider agrees that it shall
be liable for the costs incurred by the city to replace or repair and restore
to its prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably specified by the city,
any municipal structure or any other rights of way of the city involved in the
construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system that may
become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work thereon by or on behalf of
a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   F.   Obstructions Prohibited: In connection with the construction,
maintenance, upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not
unreasonably obstruct the rights of way of fixed guideway systems, railways,
passenger travel or other traffic to, from or within the city without the prior
consent of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA, and municipal safety
codes. A provider shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local
requirements, including, but not limited to, the national electrical safety
code.
   H.   Repair Of Rights Of Way: After written reasonable notice to the
provider, unless, in the sole determination of the city, an eminent danger
exists, any rights of way within the city which are disturbed or damaged during
the construction, maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may
be repaired by the city at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as
that prevailing before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the city shall
submit to such a provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and
restoring the rights of way intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty
(30) days after receipt of the statement, pay to the city the entire amount
thereof.
   I.   Maintenance Of System: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise.
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the national
electrical safety code and all applicable other federal, state and local laws
or regulations.
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the city of the system and its effect on the rights of way.
   J.   Trimming Trees; Authority: A provider shall have the authority to trim
trees, in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and
easement restrictions, upon and hanging over rights of way so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with its system. (Ord. 97-12-9-
15, 12-9-1997)
7-3-10: PRIVATE PROPERTY; OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
7-3-11: TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE AND LICENSE:
   A.   Notification Of Sale:
      1.   PSC Approval: When a provider is the subject of a sale, transfer,
lease, assignment, sublease or disposal, in whole or in part, either by force
or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or otherwise, such that
it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek the approval of the
PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly notify the city of the
nature of the transaction. The notification shall include either:
         a.   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement; or
         b.   The successor entity's application, in compliance with section
7-3-6 of this chapter.
      2.   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this section, the city
designee, as provided in subsection
7-3-12A1 of this chapter, shall send notice affirming the transfer of the
franchise to the successor entity. If the city has good cause to believe that
the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the franchise
agreement, it may require an application for the transfer. The application
shall comply with section
7-3-6 of this chapter.
      3.   If PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists or
if its regulations or state law no longer require approval of transactions
described in subsection A1 of this section, and the city has good cause to
believe that the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the
franchise agreement, it may require an application. The application shall
comply with section
7-3-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Events Of Sale, Transfer Or Assignment: The following events shall be
deemed to be a sale, assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring
compliance with subsection A1 of this section:
      1.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
provider's assets to another person;
      2.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a provider;
      3.   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new controlling
interest in such a provider; or
      4.   The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of such provider or its system. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-
1997)
7-3-12: ENFORCEMENT; RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Enforcement; Remedies:
      1.   City Designee: The city is responsible for enforcing and
administering this chapter and the city or its designee, as appointed by the
mayor, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any franchise
agreement.
      2.   Enforcement Provisions: Any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the bond/security fund and rights of termination or revocation.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this subsection, causes or
events not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation,
acts of God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation; Continuity Of Services:
      1.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the city shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      2.   Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier; Negotiate Renewal: If the provider
is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that: a) the use of any portion of
the system is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, and
thirty (30) days after no response to written notice from the city to the last
known address of provider; b) any system has been installed in the rights of
way without complying with the requirements of this chapter or franchise; or c)
the provisions of subsection
7-3-5E of this chapter are applicable and no franchise is granted, a provider,
except the provider who is an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall be deemed
to have abandoned such system.
      2.   Removal Of Abandoned System: The city, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights of way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      3.   Transfer Of Abandoned System To City: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the city, shall submit to the city a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the city, transferring to the city
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4.   Removal Of Aboveground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the city shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights of way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If the provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall
not be required to remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good
faith.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights of
way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (Ord. 97-12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
7-3-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal, state or local court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as conflicting with any federal or
state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in any way in order to
conform to the requirements of any such law and all appellate remedies with
regard to the validity of the ordinance provisions in question are exhausted,
such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct and independent part of
this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability
of all other provisions hereof. In the event that such law is subsequently
repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so that the provision which
had been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with such law, the
provision in question shall return to full force and effect and shall again be
binding on the city and the provider; provided, that the city shall give the
provider thirty (30) days, or a longer period of time as may be reasonably
required for a provider to comply with such a rejuvenated provision, written
notice of the change before requiring compliance with such provision. (Ord. 97-
12-9-15, 12-9-1997)
CHAPTER 4
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Permit Required; Basis For Issuance
7-4-3: Application For Permit; Requirements
7-4-4: Fees For Permit
7-4-5: Insurance Requirements
7-4-6: Bond Required
7-4-7: Duration Of Permit; Extensions
7-4-8: Compliance Required
7-4-9: Relocation Of Structures In Public Ways
7-4-10: Impact On Existing Improvements; Restoration Guaranteed
7-4-11: Restoration Of Public Property
7-4-12: Transferability; Assignability
7-4-13: Other Highway Permits
7-4-14: Work Without Permit
7-4-15: Revocation Or Suspension; Stop Order; Default
7-4-16: Failure To Conform To Design Standards
7-4-17: Emergency Work
7-4-18: Nonliability Of City
7-4-19: Appeals
7-4-20: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
7-4-21: Conflicting Provisions
7-4-22: Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in the city in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
CITY: Elk Ridge City, Utah.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstance or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes an immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility or public services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR DESIGN STANDARDS,
DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS: The latest version of the engineering
regulations, specifications, design standards or criteria published by the city
engineer and adopted by ordinance of the city council.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet city construction
standards and specifications, or which results in a deteriorated or substandard
condition within the duration of the warranty period. Failure may be settlement
of surfaces, deterioration of materials or other surface irregularities.
Measurement of failure shall be further defined in the engineering regulations.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication or utility services to customers, all or part of
the necessary system which uses the right of way.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications or utility
system and directly or through one or more affiliates owns a controlling
interest in such system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the
operation of such a system.
PERMITTEE: Any person who has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
provider, corporation, company, organization or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge
the gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property such as drainage, spring or storm
water, or condensate into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee or
public utility company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
state public service commission or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone or other utility products or services for use by
the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public rights of way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public
highways, public alleys and public drainageways. It does not, however, include
utility easements not within public ways of the city.
PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT: The city public works superintendent or his/her
authorized representative.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides service over a system for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
system used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights
of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway or ditch installed in a right
of way or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This term
does not include private drain lines.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR UTILITY SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment,
wire and appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider located in the
construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications
or utility system.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: Means and includes the restoring of the original ground
or paved hard surface area to comply with engineering regulations, codes and
specifications, and includes, but is not limited to, repair, cleanup,
backfilling, compaction and stabilization, paving inspections and other work
necessary to place the site in acceptable condition following the conclusion of
the work, or the expiration or revocation of the permit. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-
9-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
7-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; BASIS FOR ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the
city, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the city to issue a
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the city, the
following:
   A.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or
structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   B.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wire in addition
to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other users of
the public way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and water;
   C.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements or landscaping previously existing in the public way;
   D.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public way. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-
9-1997)
7-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required; Filing: Application for a permit shall be filed with the city
recorder on a form or forms to be furnished by the city. Property owners and/or
tenants for whom work is being done shall be responsible for obtaining the
permits; provided, however, contractors may obtain the permit in the
contractor's name. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
   B.   Eligible Persons: No person shall be eligible to apply for or receive
permits to do work within the public ways of the city, save and except the
following:
      1.   Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
      2.   Providers;
      3.   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffolding or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, awnings and painting or cleaning of
buildings or sign boards or other structures.
      4.   A property owner performing work adjacent to his/her residence.
(Ord. 01-3-27-6, 3-27-2001, eff. 3-27-2001)
   C.   Denial Based On Past Performances: The mayor may deny the issuance of
permits to contractors, utility companies or other permit applicants who have
shown by past performance that, in the opinion of the mayor, they will not
consistently conform to the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards or the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997;
amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Engineering Plans; When Required: When necessary, in the judgment of
the public works superintendent or the city engineer, to fully determine the
relationship of the work proposed to existing or proposed facilities within the
public ways, or to determine whether the work proposed complies with the
engineering regulations, construction specifications and design standards, the
public works superintendent or the city engineer may require the filing of
engineering plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in
sufficient detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance,
or both, and the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and
sketches are filed and approved.
   E.   Approval Required Prior To Commencement Of Work: It shall be unlawful
for any person to commence work upon any public way until the public works
superintendent has approved the application and until a permit has been issued
for such work, except as specifically approved to the contrary in this chapter.
(Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
   F.   Exception: Government Employees: It shall be lawful for a city, county,
state, federal or other government employee to perform routine maintenance
work, involving excavations, without first having obtained a permit therefor.
(Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
   G.   Landscaping Excavations: A permit is required from the public works
superintendent or city engineer for excavations for installation of sprinkler
systems and landscaping within the nonpaved areas of the public way.
Conformance to all city specifications is required. If a permit for landscaping
is approved by the city, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner
to replace the approved landscaping if it is later destroyed by the city. (Ord.
01-3-27-6, 3-27-2001, eff. 3-27-2001)
   H.   Limitation Of Engineer's Authority: In approving or disapproving work
within any public way, or permits therefor, in the inspection of such work; in
reviewing plans, sketches or specifications; and generally in the exercise of
the authority conferred upon him/her by this chapter, the city engineer and
public works superintendent shall act in such manner as to preserve and protect
the public way and the use thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the
actions or inaction of permittees and applicants or other persons which have no
relationship to the use, preservation or protection of the public way. (Ord.
97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-4: FEES FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Authorized: The city shall charge and the permittee shall pay a fee in
such amount as established by resolution of the city council upon issuance of
the permit, and additional fees for costs associated with the work performed
under the permit in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council. Such costs could include costs for reviewing the project and issuing
the permit, inspections of the project, deterioration of the public way or
diminution of the useful life of the public way, and other costs to the city
associated with the work to be done under the permit. All costs shall be
assessed in a nondiscriminatory manner. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Waiver; Determination: The public works superintendent may waive permit
fees or penalties, or portion thereof, provided for in this chapter, when he/
she determines that such permit fee or penalty:
      1.   Low Income Housing: Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of
housing for persons whose income is below the median income level for the city;
or
      2.   Encroachment Involving Beautification Project: Pertains to an
encroachment on the public way involving a beautification project which
furthers specific goals and objectives set forth in the city's strategic plan,
master plans or other official documents, including decorative street lighting,
building facade lighting, flower and planter boxes, and landscaping.
   C.   Required Reviews And Inspections: Additional charges to cover the
reasonable cost and expenses of any required engineering review, inspection and
work site restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by the
city to each permittee, in addition to the permit fee. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-
1997)
7-4-5: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Evidence Provided; Limits, Provisions: Before a permit is issued, the
applicant shall furnish to the city evidence that such applicant has a
comprehensive general liability and property damage policy that includes
contractual liability coverage endorsed with the following limits and
provisions detailed in this section or with such alternative limits and
provisions outlined in chapter 02.12 of the city development and construction
standards (latest edition) if approved by the public works superintendent or
city engineer prior to issuing an excavation permit.
      1.   A minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single
limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage,
and not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to the permit, or the general
aggregate limit shall be two (2) times the required occurrence limit. The
coverage shall be in the nature of broad form commercial general liability
coverage. The city attorney may increase or decrease minimum insurance limits,
depending on the potential liability of any project.
      2.   All policies shall include the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns as insured. Any reference to the
"city" shall include the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      3.   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the city, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      4.   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not effect coverage provided to the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      5.   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      6.   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the city, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      7.   The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have no
recourse against the city for payment of any premiums due or for any
assessments under any form of any policy.
      8.   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, sent to the city.
      9.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend
the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by the permittee, his/her subcontractor or agent,
whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right of way
has been opened to public travel.
      10.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work
pursuant to the permit, including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and the right of way is opened for
public use.
   B.   Rating Of Insurer: Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM
Best rating of no less than an "A" carrier, with a rating of "A7" or higher.
   C.   Certificates, Endorsements: The permittee shall furnish the city with
certificates of insurance and original endorsements affecting coverage required
by the permit. The certificates and endorsements for each insurance policy are
to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its
behalf. The city expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified
copies of all required insurance policies at any time. Consequently, the
permittee shall be prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the
permit.
   D.   Unsatisfactory Policy: If any of the required policies are, or at any
time become, unsatisfactory to the city as to form or substance, or if a
company issuing any such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to
the city, the permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to
the city for approval and thereafter submit verification of coverage as
required by the city. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such
insurance as provided herein, the city may declare the permit to be in default
and pursue any and all remedies the city may have at law or in equity,
including those actions outlined in this chapter.
   E.   Subcontractors: The permittee shall include all subcontractors as
insured under its policies or shall furnish separate certificates and
endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be
subject to all of the requirements stated herein.
   F.   Deductibles, Self-Insured Retentions: Any deductibles or self-insured
retentions shall be declared to and approved by the city. At the option of the
city, either the insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-
insured retentions as respects the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers or assigns, or the permittee shall procure a bond, in a form
acceptable to the city, guaranteeing payment of losses and related
investigations, claim administration and defense expenses.
   G.   Property Owner Performing Work: A property owner performing work
adjacent to his/her residence may submit proof of a homeowner's insurance
policy in lieu of the insurance requirements of this section.
   H.   Relief Of Obligation; Circumstances: A provider may be relieved of the
obligation of submitting certificates of insurance under the following
circumstances:
      1.   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         a.   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
         b.   Said coverage provides to the city the same scope of coverage
that would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this
chapter; or
      2.   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
to be performed by the city, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the city and the applicant by separate
agreement. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-6: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Acceptable Security: Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant,
before being issued a permit, shall provide the city with an acceptable
security (this may include a corporate surety bond, cash bond or letter of
credit, as determined by the city) in the amount to guarantee faithful
performance of the work authorized by a permit granted pursuant to this
chapter. The amount of the security required may be increased or decreased at
the discretion of the city engineer whenever it appears that the amount and
cost of the work to be performed, and not satisfactorily completed, may vary
from the amount of security otherwise required under this chapter. The form of
the security and the entity issuing the security shall be subject to the
approval of the city attorney.
   B.   Public Utilities Franchised By City: Public utilities franchised by the
city shall not be required to file any security if such requirement is
expressly waived in the franchise documents.
   C.   Conditions Of Security: The security required by this section shall be
conditioned as follows:
      1.   Compliance With Specifications And Regulations: The permittee shall
fully comply with the requirements of the city ordinances and regulations,
specifications and standards promulgated by the city relative to work in the
public way, and respond to the city in damages for failure to conform
therewith;
      2.   Diligent Completion: After work is commenced, the permittee shall
proceed with diligence and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and
restore the public way to construction specifications so as not to obstruct the
public place or travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3.   Guarantee Of Materials, Workmanship: The permittee shall guarantee
the materials and workmanship for a period of two (2) years from completion of
such work, with reasonable wear and tear excepted; and (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-
1997)
      4.   Street Facilities:
         a.   Unless authorized by the public works superintendent on the
permit, all paving, resurfacing or replacement of street facilities in any
street construction project shall be completed in conformance with the
regulations contained in chapter 02.24 of the city development and construction
standards within three (3) calendar days, and must be completed at least seven
(7) calendar days prior to the time excavation commences on any other street
construction projects, except as provided for during excavation in winter or
during weather conditions which do not allow paving according to engineering
regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must be provided which is to be saw
cut out and replaced by the permittee with permanent asphalt or concrete by
March 15, or earliest possible date when asphalt is available following the
winter placement of the temporary patch. In all excavations, restoration of
pavement surfaces shall be made immediately after backfilling is completed or
concrete is cured.
         b.   If work is expected to exceed the above described duration, the
permittee shall submit a detailed construction schedule for approval. The
schedule will address means and methods to minimize traffic disruption and
complete the construction as soon as reasonably possible. The permittee shall
be subject to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) a day for any road
construction work not completed according to the above schedule requirements.
         c.   Unless authorized by the public works superintendent on the
permit, construction on major collector and arterial roads shall provide for at
least one lane remaining open to traffic. Proper detouring and signage shall be
installed and provided by the contractor. (Ord. 07-16, 11-13-2007, eff. 12-13-
2007)
7-4-7: DURATION OF PERMIT; EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Completion Date; Determination: Each permit application shall state the
starting date and estimated completion date. Work shall be completed within
five (5) days from the starting date or as determined by the public works
superintendent. Such determination shall be based upon factors reasonably
related to the work to be performed under the permit. Such factors may include,
in addition to other factors related to the work to be performed, the
following:
      1.   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      2.   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public way affected by the work;
      3.   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by
the work;
      4.   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed, as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public way by the public;
      5.   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
city.
   B.   Inspections: All inspections of the work are to be conducted by the
city engineer and are to conform to chapter 02.10 of the city development and
construction standards manual (latest edition).
   C.   Notification To City Upon Commencement: The public works superintendent
shall be notified by the permittee of commencement of the work within twenty
four (24) hours prior to commencing work. The permit shall be valid for the
time period specified in the permit.
   D.   Application For Extension: If the work is not completed during such
period, prior to the expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the
public works superintendent for an additional permit or an extension, which may
be granted by the public works superintendent for good cause shown.
   E.   Length Of Extension: The length of the extension requested by the
permittee shall be subject to the approval of the public works superintendent.
(Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-8: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Regulations, Specifications:
      1.   The work performed in the public way shall conform to the
requirements of the engineering regulations, design standards, construction
specifications and traffic control regulations of the city, copies of which
shall be available from the city recorder, kept on file in the office of the
city recorder and be open to public inspection during office hours.
      2.   All excavation work must conform to chapter 02.14 (earthwork) and
chapter 02.16 (excavation and backfill for trenches) of the city development
and construction standards (latest edition).
      3.   Restoration of surface improvements must conform to the requirements
of chapter 02.24 of the city development and construction standards (latest
edition).
   B.   Unattended Site; Permittee Identification: Where a job site is left
unattended before completion of the work, signage with minimum two inch (2")
high letters shall be attached to a barricade or otherwise posted at the site,
indicating the permittee's name or company name, telephone number and after
hours telephone number. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
   C.   Traffic Control; Barricades: All excavations shall be conducted in a
manner resulting in a minimum amount of interference or interruption of street
or pedestrian traffic. Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on
the public way shall be minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades
and/or other structures will be available and used where necessary to prevent
accidents involving property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all
of the permittee's equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has
been backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where
backfilling and resurfacing is to be done by the city; in which case the
barricades, together with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain
in place until the backfill work is actually commenced by the city. From sunset
to sunrise, all barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate
signal lights, torches, etc. The law enforcement agencies and fire department
shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any planned
excavation requiring street closure or traffic detour. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-
1997; amd. 2003 Code)
7-4-9: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Authority; Costs: The public works superintendent may direct any person
owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the public way to alter,
modify or relocate such facilities or structures as the public works
superintendent or the city engineer may require, as set forth herein. Sewers,
pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults, trash receptacles and
overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone, telecommunication and
communication facilities shall specifically be subject to such directives. The
person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures shall, at their own
cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the city, promptly
protect or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or structures, or part
thereof, as directed by the city. In the event that such person refuses or
neglects to conform to the directive of the city, the city shall have the right
to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of the facilities or
structures without liability to such person. Such person shall pay to the city
all costs incurred by the city in connection with such work performed by the
city, including also design, engineering, construction, materials, insurance,
court costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Considerations For Issuing Directive: Any directive by the public works
superintendent or city engineer shall be based upon the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the city engineer to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a nuisance as defined under
state statute;
      3.   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5.   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
   C.   Directive Consistent With Police Power: Any directive of the public
works superintendent or the city engineer under this section shall be under and
consistent with the city's police power. Unless an emergency condition exists,
they shall make a good faith effort to consult with the person regarding any
condition that may result in a removal or relocation of facilities in the
public way to consider possible avoidance or minimization of removal or
relocation requirements and provide the directive as far enough in advance of
the required removal or relocation to allow the person a reasonable opportunity
to plan and minimize cost associated with the required removal or relocation.
   D.   Exception To Obligation: This obligation does not apply to facilities
or structures originally located on private property pursuant to a private
easement, which property was later incorporated into the public way, if that
prior private easement grants a superior vested right. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-
1997)
   E.   Failure To Comply: Any person owning or maintaining facilities or
structures in the public way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such
facilities or structures upon notice to do so by the city engineer shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall
be borne by the person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
involved. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Emergency Situations: The city may, at any time, in case of fire,
disaster or other emergency, as determined by the city in its reasonable
discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or
under the public way, in which event the city shall not be liable therefor to a
person. The city shall notify a person in writing prior to, if practicable, but
in any event as soon as possible and in no case later than the next business
day following any action taken under this subsection. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-
1997)
7-4-10: IMPACT ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS; RESTORATION GUARANTEED:
   A.   Sidewalk Or Curb Ramp Blocked; Temporary Improvement: If any sidewalk
or curb ramp is blocked by excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp
shall be constructed or provided. Said temporary improvement shall be safe for
travel and convenient for users, and consistent with city standards for such.
   B.   Paved Areas; Temporary Surface: Where excavations are made in paved
areas, the surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such
time as the permanent repairs are completed. (Chapter 2.24 of the city
development and construction standards.)
   C.   Disturbance Of Property:
      1.   At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the city, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
      2.   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be done by the permittee. Further, a
permittee shall reimburse a property owner or the city for any actual damage
caused by the permittee, its subcontractor or its independent contractor, in
connection with the disturbance of such property. However, nothing in this
subsection shall require the permittee to pay a subscriber or private property
owner when that subscriber or private property owner requests that the
permittee remove, replace or relocate improvements associated with the service
provided by the permittee to the property owner and when the permittee
exercises due care in the performance of that service, or when the subscriber
or private property owner provided false information to the permittee on which
the permittee relied to its detriment.
   D.   Acts Specifically Included: Examples of types of acts specifically
included in this section are the following:
      1.   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways or fence
to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate equipment, cable or other
appurtenances of the permittee;
      2.   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      3.   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit or the like), in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      4.   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   E.   Drainage Channels Free From Debris: Existing drainage channels, such as
gutters or ditches, shall be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural
flow will not be interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise
interrupt flow of the drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be
submitted for approval by the city engineer prior to the blockage of the
channel.
   F.   Subcontractor, Independent Contractor: The requirements imposed upon
the permittee extend to any subcontractor or independent contractor that the
permittee might employ to perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   G.   Exception: The requirements of this section shall not apply to the
removal by a permittee of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in a
public way, unless such property owner has received prior written permission
from the city granting the property owner the right to install a permanent
structure on a public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the
office of the county recorder. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-11: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface
of any public way to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the
engineering regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by the
city and shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the permit,
unless additional time is granted in writing by the department.
   B.   By City; Fee Charged To Permittee: At its option, the permittee doing
the actual excavation work may request that the city restore the surface to its
original condition. The fee for such resurfacing shall be determined by the
city engineer in accordance with its reasonable costs for such work and shall
be charged to the person, firm or corporation making the excavation. Payment
for said work shall be received by the city prior to the release of the bond.
(Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-12: TRANSFERABILITY; ASSIGNABILITY:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work
to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of the
permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work under
the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under said permit. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-13: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A.   City Permit Not Required: Holders of permits for work on highways owned
or under the jurisdiction of other government entities, but located within the
city limits, shall not be required to obtain permits from the city under the
provisions of this chapter, unless the work extends beyond the back side of the
curb, or beyond any other designated jurisdictional boundary. Any city permit
shall not be construed to permit or allow work on a county road or a state
highway within the city without an applicable county or state permit.
   B.   Regulation Of Work By City; Authority: The public works superintendent,
in his or her discretion, shall have the right and authority to regulate work
under permits issued by other governmental entities with respect to hours and
days of work, and measures required to be taken by the permittee of said
governmental entity for the protection of traffic and safety of persons and
property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to impose any duty, implied or expressed, on the city or its
employees, officers, agents or assigns, relative to the protection of traffic
and safety of persons or property arising out of the issuance of any permit
issued by government entities other than the city, or arising out of any work
performed on any public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the city. (Ord.
97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-14: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT:
   A.   Stop Order: A stop order may be issued by the public works
superintendent directed to any person doing or causing any work to be done in
the public way without a permit.
   B.   Fee: Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work,
where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction
shall apply. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-15: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; STOP ORDER; DEFAULT:
   A.   Authority; Notice: Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop
order issued by the city engineer or public works superintendent, after notice
to the permittee for:
      1.   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security, or of any
provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the city or law
relating to the work; or
      3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute, or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B.   Immediate Effect: A suspension or revocation by the city engineer or
public works superintendent, and a stop order, shall take effect immediately
upon entry thereof by the city engineer or public works superintendent and
notice to the person performing the work in the public way. Notice to the
person performing the work shall be accomplished when the city engineer or
public works superintendent has posted a stop work order at the location of the
work and written notice has been mailed, return receipt requested, to the
address indicated by the permittee on the permit.
   C.   Default: Whenever the city engineer or public works superintendent
finds that a default has occurred in the performance of any term or condition
of the permit, written notice thereof may be given to the principal and to the
surety on the bond, if there is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work
to be done, the estimated cost thereof and the period of time deemed by the
city engineer to be reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
   D.   Failure To Commence Work: In the event that the surety (or principal),
within a reasonable time following the giving of such notice (taking into
consideration the exigencies of the situation, the nature of the work, the
requirements of public safety and for the protection of persons and property),
fails either to commence and cause the required work to be performed with due
diligence, or to indemnify the city for the cost of doing the work, as set
forth in the notice, the city may perform the work, at the discretion of the
city engineer, with city forces or contract forces, or both, and suit may be
commenced by the city attorney against the contractor and bonding company and
such other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the
city, including attorney fees, on account thereof. In the event that cash has
been deposited, the cost of performing the work may be charged against the
amount deposited, and suit brought for the balance due, if any. (Ord. 97-12-9-
16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-16: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the city
engineer may:
   A.   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B.   Issue a stop order;
   C.   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D.   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E.   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-17: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Authorized Without Permit: Any person maintaining pipes, lines or
facilities in the public way may proceed with work upon existing facilities
without a permit when emergency circumstances demand the work to be done
immediately; provided a permit could not reasonably and practicably have been
obtained beforehand.
   B.   Notification To City; Protection Of Public: In the event that emergency
work is commenced on or within any public way of the city during regular
business hours, the public works superintendent shall be notified within one-
half (1/2) hour from the time the work is commenced. The person commencing and
conducting such work shall take all necessary safety precautions for the
protection of the public and the direction and control of traffic, and shall
ensure that work is accomplished according to city engineering regulations,
city safety regulations, the manual on uniform traffic control devices and
other applicable laws, regulations or generally recognized practices in the
industry.
C. Application For Permit; Time Limit: Any person commencing emergency work in
the public way during other than business hours without a permit shall
immediately thereafter apply for a permit or give notice during the first hour
of the first regular business day on which city offices are open for business
after such work is commenced. A permit for such emergency work may be issued
which shall be retroactive to the date when the work was begun, at the
discretion of the city engineer. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-18: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
A. Agreement To Hold City Harmless: The permittee agrees to hold the city, its
officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and
liabilities which may accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work
performed under the permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under
this chapter shall constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this
section.
B. Liability: This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the
city, its officers, employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for
damages to any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work
within the public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter; nor
shall the city, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or
assigns thereof be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility
by reason of inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit or the
approval of any work. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-19: APPEALS:
A. Application Disapproval Or Denial: The disapproval or denial of an
application by the public works superintendent may be appealed by the applicant
by the filing of a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of the action
of the public works superintendent. The mayor shall hear such appeal, if
written request therefor be timely filed, as soon as practicable, and render
his/her decision within two (2) weeks following notice of such appeal.
B. Suspension, Revocation Or Stop Order: Any suspension, revocation or stop
order by the city engineer or public works superintendent may be appealed by
the permittee to the mayor by filing a written notice of appeal within ten (10)
days of the action of the above. The mayor shall hear such appeal, if written
request therefor be timely filed, as soon as practicable, and render his/her
decision within a reasonable time following filing of notice of appeal. (Ord.
97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-20: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-21: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997)
7-4-22: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation exists shall be a separate offense.
No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 97-12-9-16, 12-9-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE 1
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Department
8-1-2: Applications For Connection, Service
8-1-3: Fees
8-1-4: Statement Of Charges; Delinquency
8-1-5: Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-6: Use Without Authority; Restrictions
8-1-7: Installation Of Water Lines
8-1-8: Pipe Requirements
8-1-9: Sprinkling Vehicles
8-1-10: Access By Department
8-1-11: Motors And Certain Machinery Restricted
8-1-12: Fire Hydrants
8-1-13: Water Conservation Plan; Scarcity Of Water
8-1-14: Excessive Use Of Sprinklers
8-1-15: Time Of Day Watering Regulations (Rep. by Ord. 17-4, 1-24-2017)
8-1-16: Waste Of Water
8-1-17: Water Meters
8-1-18: Nonliability For Damages
8-1-19: Secondary Water Service (Rep. by Ord. 15-4, 9-8-2015, eff. 12-23-2015)
8-1-20: Penalty
 
Notes
  1. See also subsections
1 10-12-21A and
  10-12-24A of this Code.
8-1-1: WATER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Creation: The Water Department of the City is hereby created. It shall
administer the operation and maintenance of the water system of the City.
   B.   Superintendent: There is hereby created the position of Superintendent
of the Water Department.
   C.   Duties: The Superintendent of the water system shall manage and
supervise the City water system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and
pursuant to resolutions, rules and regulations adopted by the City Council from
time to time prescribing his powers and duties and directing the manner and
frequency with which he shall make reports to the Mayor relating to the water
system. All of the functions and activities of the Superintendent shall be
carried on under the direction of the Mayor. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980)
8-1-2: APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTION, SERVICE:
   A.   Connection: Any person, other than a subdivider or developer seeking
multiple connections, who desires or is required to secure a connection to the
City water system, shall file with the Water Department for each such
connection a written and signed connection application. A utility deposit is
required at the time application is submitted as per the current City fee
schedule and will be applied to the customer utility account after one year of
good payment history. Any temporarily terminated utility accounts will be
required to pay a minimum monthly utilities connections fee as per the current
City fee schedule. (Ord. 17-5, 4-11-2017)
   B.   Connection By Subdividers: Whenever a subdivider or developer desires
or is required to install water connections and extensions for a subdivision or
development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into a written extension
agreement, which shall constitute an application for permission to make the
extensions and connections, and an agreement specifying the terms and
conditions under which the water extensions and connections shall be made and
the payments that shall be required.
   C.   Service: Any person who desires or is required to secure water service
when such service is available from the City water system, shall file with the
Water Department a written application and agreement for the service which
shall be in a form and content approved by the City Council. Attached to the
ordinance codified herein and marked exhibit B, and incorporated herein by this
reference, is a sample application form. The contents and form of this
application may be changed by the City Council by appropriate resolution, from
time to time.
   D.   Nonowner Applicants; Agreement Of Owner: Applications for water service
made by the tenant of an owner must in addition to the above requirements be
guaranteed by an agreement signed by the owner of the premises or his duly
authorized agent in substantially the following form:
In consideration of the acceptance of the application for water service
submitted by (tenant), I (or we) will pay for all water services for any such
tenant or any other occupant of                     premises in case such
tenant or occupant shall fail to pay for the same according to the ordinances,
rules, regulations or resolutions enacted by the city.
Dated this        day of              , 20    .
                                                          
Owner
   (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980)
8-1-3: FEES:
   A.   Service Rates And Connection Fees: The rates, penalty fee for
delinquency in payment, connection fee, reservoir fee, inspection fee and other
charges incidental to connection and services from the city water system shall
be fixed from time to time by resolution enacted by the city council. The city
council may from time to time promulgate rules for levying, billing,
guaranteeing and collecting charges for water services and all other rules
necessary for the management and control of the water system. Rates for
services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or classes of
service established or that may hereafter be established.
   B.   Special Rates: The city council may from time to time fix by agreement
or resolution special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large
amounts of water service or making use of the water system under exceptional
circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem proper.
   C.   Complaints; Corrections: The city council is hereby constituted a board
of equalization of water rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any
assessments deemed to be illegal, unequal or unjust. They may, if they see fit,
rebate all or any part of the water bill of any indigent person. (Ord. 80-5, 5-
8-1980)
8-1-4: STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Statement: The city recorder shall furnish to each user, via postal
service, email, or leave at his place of residence or usual place of business,
a written or printed statement stating thereon the amount of water service
charges assessed against him once each month or at such other regular interval
as the city council shall direct. The statement shall specify the amount of the
bill for the water service and the place of payment and date due.
   B:   Returned Checks: A service charge will be charged on returned checks,
electronic payments, credit card payments and debit card payments.
   C.   Failure To Pay: An account is considered delinquent if it is not paid
by noon on the last day of the same month that the bill is sent. User will
incur penalties, for failure to pay on time, as established by the city council
by resolution. Refer to the fee schedule for applicable fees. Unless payment is
made in full by noon of the last day of that month, service will be subject to
delinquent fees and possible discontinuation of services. (2003 Code)
   D.   Discontinued Service: If the water service is thereafter discontinued
for failure to make payment, then before the water service to the premises
shall again be provided, all delinquent water charges must have been paid to
the city treasurer or arrangements made for their payment in a manner
satisfactory to the city. Furthermore, in addition to such payments and
penalties, a delinquent customer may be required to make and file a new
application and deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been applied to
the payment of delinquent bills. The city recorder is hereby authorized and
empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent water charges by an action
at law in the name of the city. In the event that a customer moves leaving a
delinquent balance, the water meter shall be locked and no service will be
provided to that residence until the delinquent balance has been paid by the
guarantor or guarantee, or until a new owner acquires ownership of the
residence. A municipality may not require an owner to pay for water that was
furnished to the property before the owner's ownership.
(Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980; amd. Ord. 89-11-14-4, 11-14-1989; Ord. 11-9, 10-25-2011;
Ord. 18-8, 8-28-2018)
8-1-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Any customer desiring to discontinue service shall notify the city in writing
of such fact at least ten (10) days before the date when such service shall be
discontinued. On giving such written notice, the customer shall not be
responsible for water bills incurred after the date specified in the notice.
Any credit balance in favor of the customer as a result of an advance payment
of bills or a deposit made will be refunded upon discontinuation of service.
(Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980; amd. Ord. 18-8, 8-28-2018)
8-1-6: USE WITHOUT AUTHORITY; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Turning On After Being Turned Off Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person, after the water has been turned off from the premises for
nonpayment of water charges or other violation of the ordinances, rules,
regulations or resolutions pertaining to the water supply, to turn on or allow
the water to be turned on or used without authority from the superintendent or
city recorder.
   B.   Separate Connections: It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more families
or service users to be supplied from the same service pipe, connection or water
meter unless special permission for such combination usage has been granted by
the city council and the premises served are owned by the same owner. In all
such cases, a failure on the part of any one of the users to comply with this
subsection shall warrant a withholding of a supply of water through the service
connections until compliance or payment has been made, and in any event, the
property owner shall be primarily liable to the city for all water services
utilized on all such premises. Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude the
power of the city to require separate pipes, connections or meters at a
subsequent time.
   C.   Unauthorized Users: It shall be unlawful for any water service user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain water services regularly from his premises or water facilities, either
outside or inside his premises.
   D.   Adjoining Premises: No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water
pipes across lots or buildings to adjoining premises without permission from
the water superintendent and subject to such requirements relating to controls
as may be imposed by him.
   E.   Visitors: Individuals visiting the premises of an authorized user in a
recreational vehicle, not including a mobile home, and continuing to live
therein during the period of visitation may receive water service from the
service pipes or facilities of the host during the visitation period which
shall not exceed one month. Continued use thereafter shall be deemed
unauthorized and violative of the provisions of this chapter relating to
separate connections and unauthorized use.
   F.   Use Without Payment: It shall be unlawful for any person by himself,
family, servants or agents to utilize the city water system or city sewer
system without paying therefor, as herein provided, or without authority to
open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve or other fixtures attached to the system
of water supply, unless it is done pursuant to proper application, agreement or
resolution. It shall be unlawful to injure, deface or impair any part or
appurtenance of the water or sewer system, or to place anything into any
reservoir or tank belonging to the water system. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980)
8-1-7: INSTALLATION OF WATER LINES:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair,
alter or connect any water line to the city culinary water system without first
having received a construction permit from the office of the city recorder or
from the water superintendent.
   B.   Application: Applications for permits to make water connections or
other alteration or for laying or repairing lines connected directly or
indirectly to the city water system must be made in writing by a licensed
plumber, his authorized agent, or by the owner of the premises, who shall
describe the nature of the work to be done for which the application is made.
   C.   Determination Of Approval: The application shall be granted if the
superintendent determines that:
      1.   The connection, repair, alteration or installation will cause no
damage to the street in which the water main is laid, or that it will not be
prejudicial to the interests of persons whose property has been or may
thereafter be connected to the water main.
      2.   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specifications and standards of materials required by the city.
   D.   Line And Grade Designation: All connections, alterations or
installations shall be to the line and grade designated by the water
superintendent.
   E.   Fees: Fees for permits or for inspection services shall be of such
amounts as the city council shall from time to time determine by resolution.
   F.   Moving Or Replacement Of Water Lines: In the event that the city in its
sole discretion determines that any water line of the city must be moved or
replaced, the city shall bear that portion of the cost of such move or
replacement which applies to main lines up to the property line of the
customer. The cost of reconnecting such new line or lines from the house of the
customer to his property line shall be borne by the customer.
   G.   Plumbing Requirements: Permission to connect with the city water system
shall not be given unless the plumbing in the house or building to be connected
meets the provisions of the building and plumbing codes of the city. (Ord. 80-
5, 5-8-1980)
8-1-8: PIPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Good Repair: All users of water services shall keep their service pipes
and connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at
their own expense. No person, except under the direction of the water
superintendent, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of
laying, removing or repairing any service pipe.
   B.   Quality Of Service Pipe: All service and other pipe used in conjunction
with the water services of the city shall be of such material, quality and
specifications as the city council may from time to time by resolution provide,
and shall be installed at such distances below ground as may be specified by
regulations relating to the water department. All work, alterations or
extensions affecting water pipes shall be subject to the acceptance of the
water superintendent, and no connections with any water mains shall be made
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city recorder. (Ord. 80-5,
5-8-1980)
8-1-9: SPRINKLING VEHICLES:
Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the water
department through the superintendent of the water department. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-
1980)
8-1-10: ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT:
The water superintendent and his agents shall at all ordinary hours have free
access to any place supplied with water services from the city system for the
purpose of examining the apparatus and ascertaining the amount of water service
being used and the manner of its use. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980)
8-1-11: MOTORS AND CERTAIN MACHINERY RESTRICTED:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the city water system for the
purpose of driving a motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose,
except by special permission of the city council. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980)
8-1-12: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Control; Access: All public fire hydrants shall be under the control
and shall be kept in regular repair by the city engineer, and in case of fire,
the fire department shall have free access to said hydrants. (Ord. 98-6-23-8,
6-23-1998)
   B.   Unauthorized Use, Obstruction; Penalty: Every person who opens or
operates any fire hydrant or attempts to draw water therefrom without special
permission from the city engineer or obstructs the approach thereto is guilty
of a class C misdemeanor and upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 98-6-23-8, 6-23-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Permit; Fee: The city shall pass a resolution providing for a permit to
be issued to those who desire to draw water from a fire hydrant and also
setting a rate to be charged for such use. (Ord. 98-6-23-8, 6-23-1998)
8-1-13: WATER CONSERVATION PLAN; SCARCITY OF WATER:
   A.   Conservation Plan: In accordance with state statute, Elk Ridge City
hereby adopts by reference a water conservation plan as may be amended from
time to time; and is on file at the city.
   B.   Scarcity Of Water: In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall, in
the judgment of the city council be necessary, the mayor shall by proclamation
limit the use of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful
for any person, his family, servants or agents to violate any proclamation made
by the mayor in pursuance of this section. Any violation of the provisions of
this section related to mandatory water restrictions shall be deemed a
violation of this code and punishable by a possible fine, up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per violation as per the current city fee schedule. (Ord.
17-2, 1-10-2017)
8-1-14: EXCESSIVE USE OF SPRINKLERS:
   A.   Effect On City Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person to use
such number of outlets simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combination
of sprinklers or outlets as will, in the opinion of the city council,
materially affect the pressure or supply of water in the water system or any
part thereof. The city council may from time to time, by resolution, specify
combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such effect.
   B.   Order To Discontinue: The city council shall, after determining that
such improper use exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the
premises whereon such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such
use discontinued and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980)
8-1-15: TIME OF DAY WATERING REGULATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 17-4, 1-24-2017)
8-1-16: WASTE OF WATER:
   A.   Prohibited: Users of water from the city water system shall not permit
water to continue to run wastefully without due efforts to conserve water. If,
in the judgment of the water superintendent, or of the city council, a user of
municipal water engages in practices which result in the needless waste of
water and continues to do so after reasonable notice to discontinue
wastefulness has been given, the superintendent may refer the matter to the
city council.
   B.   Termination Of Service; Meeting: The city council may thereupon
consider terminating the right of the individual to use culinary water. If it
elects to consider the matter of such termination, it shall give notice to the
water user of the intention to terminate his water connection at least five (5)
days prior to the meeting of the city council at which termination of water
service is to be considered. The notice shall inform him of the time and place
of the meeting and the charges which lead to the consideration of the
termination.
   C.   Appearance By Water User: A water user whose right to utilize city
water is being reviewed shall have opportunity to appear with or without
counsel and present the reasons why his water service should not be
discontinued.
   D.   Determination: After due hearing, the city council may arrive at a
determination. If the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's
service connection, the city council shall notify him of the decision and of
the period during which the service will remain discontinued. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-
1980)
   E.   Unlawful Use; Faulty Equipment: It shall be unlawful for any water user
to intentionally: (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Waste water;
      2.   Allow it to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes,
or to allow tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow;
      3.   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops, or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus;
      4.   Use the water for purposes other than for those which he has
applied, or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980)
8-1-17: WATER METERS:
   A.   Number Of Meters; Dispute: Except as otherwise expressly permitted by
this chapter, all structures, dwelling units, establishments and persons using
water from the city water system must have such number of water meters
connected to their water system as are necessary in the judgment of the
superintendent to adequately measure use and determine water charges to the
respective users.
   B.   Meters Furnished By City: Meters will be furnished by the city upon
application for a connection, and upon payment of such connection fees and
other costs as may be established by the city council from time to time by
resolution.
   C.   Disputes: Meters shall be deemed to be and remain the property of the
city. Whenever a dispute between the superintendent and the property owner
arises as to the appropriate number of meters to be installed on any premises,
the matter shall be heard and determined by the city council after due notice
in writing to the parties involved.
   D.   Meter Readings: The superintendent shall cause meter readings to be
taken regularly and shall advise the city recorder thereof for the purpose of
recording the necessary billings for water service.
   E.   Tampering: Meters may be checked, inspected or adjusted at the
discretion of the city, and they shall not be adjusted or tampered with by the
customer. Meter boxes shall not be opened for the purpose of turning on or off
the water except by an authorized representative of the city, unless special
permission is given by the city through its representatives to the customer to
do so.
   F.   Meter Testing: If a customer submits a written request to the
superintendent to test his water meter, the city may, if under the
circumstances it deems it advisable and in its discretion, order a test of the
meter measuring the water delivered to such customer. If such request is made
within twelve (12) months after the date of the last previous test, the
customer may be required to pay the cost of such test. If the meter is found in
such test to record from ninety seven percent (97%) to one hundred three
percent (103%) of accuracy under methods of testing satisfactory to the city
council, the meter shall be deemed to accurately measure the use of water.
   G.   Estimation In Case Of Failure: If the city's meters fail to register at
any time, the water delivered during the period of failure shall be estimated
on the basis of previous consumption during a period which is not questioned.
In the event a meter is found to be recording less than ninety seven percent
(97%) or more than one hundred three percent (103%) of accuracy, the city shall
make such adjustments in the customer's previous bills as are just and fair
under the circumstances.
   H.   Damage By Customer: All damage or injury to the lines, meters or other
materials of the city on or near the customer's premises caused by any act or
neglect of the customer shall, in the discretion of the city, be repaired by
and at the expense of the customer, and the customer shall pay all costs and
expenses, including a reasonable attorney fee, which may arise or accrue to the
city through its efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters or to other
equipment of the department or collect such costs from the customer. (Ord. 80-
5, 5-8-1980)
   I.   Existing Connections Without Meter: Persons already connected to the
city water system which have not caused to have an appropriate meter installed
shall do so prior to occupancy being granted. Failure to do so shall be grounds
for termination of the water service to the premises following a hearing
conducted by the city council, with appropriate written notice to the said
person at least five (5) days prior to the hearing. The city council may also,
in its discretion, cause the meter to be installed and to have all costs and
fees thus incurred added to the water bill of said person. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-
1980; amd. 2003 Code)
   J.   Access To Meters: It is the responsibility of each resident to maintain
the area surrounding the water meter to assure access to the meter for monthly
reading. (Ord. 84-8, 10-11-1984)
   K.   Meter Size:
      1.   The purpose of this subsection K is to set a maximum size for
residential water meters to reduce waste of water and demand on the entire city
water system while allowing for exceptions based on fire code requirements.
      2.   The maximum size of a residential water meter shall be one inch
(1"). A two inch (2") lateral may be brought to a residential lot for fire
protection purposes only; however, the culinary service to the residential
dwelling shall be reduced to a maximum of one inch (1"). Each lateral or
service shall have a separate water meter (i.e., a 1 inch meter for the 1 inch
culinary service and a 2 inch meter for the 2 inch fire service). Agricultural
or irrigation use shall not be considered as fire protection purposes for this
subsection. Exceptions to this subsection may be granted after application to
the city council based upon fire code requirements as adopted by the city
council. (Ord. 99-9-14-8, 9-14-1999, eff. 9-14-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
8-1-18: NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The city shall not be held liable for any damage to a water service user by
reason of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by
fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which
occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other
unavoidable cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the liability
of the city beyond that provided in the governmental immunity act. (Ord. 80-5,
5-8-1980)
8-1-19: SECONDARY WATER SERVICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 15-4, 9-8-2015, eff. 12-23-2015)
8-1-20: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 80-5, 5-8-1980; amd. 2003 Code; Ord.
06-4, 1-10-2006, eff. 2-10-2006)
CHAPTER 2
BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Responsibilities
8-2-4: Policy
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Protect the safe drinking water supply of the city from the possibility
of contamination or pollution by requiring compliance with this chapter,
applicable state and local plumbing codes, health regulations, OSHA and other
applicable industry standards for water system safety within the consumer's
internal distribution system or private water system. Compliance with these
minimum safety codes will be considered reasonable vigilance on the part of
consumers for prevention of contaminants and pollutants which could backflow
into the public drinking water systems; and
   B.   Promote reasonable elimination and control of cross connections by all
consumers in their service connections, industrial piping and all plumbing
applications and thus protect the drinking water system; and
   C.   Provide a program and policy for the city to administer and enforce the
continual and effective prevention of all backflow into the public drinking
water distribution system. (Ord. 95-8-22-5, 8-22-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: A device accepted by the Utah department of health,
bureau of drinking water/sanitation, as meeting an applicable specification or
as suitable for the proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the purveyor's public water supply will be considered as an auxiliary
water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor's
public potable water supply or any natural source such as a well, spring,
river, stream, harbor, etc., or "used waters" or "industrial fluids". These
waters may be contaminated or polluted or they may be objectionable and
constitute an unacceptable water source and shall not be allowed to be
connected to the purveyor's distribution system.
BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances under
pressure into the feeding distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any sources other than the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any sources other
than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the potable
water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The reverse direction of the normal flow of water through the
consumer's meter, caused by either back pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained
within the Utah plumbing code, chapter 10 (appendix J), and the cross
connection control program for Utah.
CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by
sewage, industrial fluids, waste liquids, compounds or other materials.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
which may allow nonpotable water or industrial fluids or other material of
questionable quality to come in contact with potable water inside a
distribution system. This would include any temporary connections, such as
swing connections, removable sections, four (4) way plug valves, spools, dummy
sections of pipe, swivel or changeover devices or sliding multiport tubes or
other plumbing arrangements.
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved backflow
assembly at the water service connection to any customer's premises where it is
physically and economically infeasible to find and permanently eliminate or
control all actual or potential cross connections within the customer's water
system; or, it shall mean the installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer's
water system where there are actual or potential cross connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross connection
(isolation).
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly
installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
WATER PURVEYOR: The person designated to be in charge of the water department
of Elk Ridge City, vested with the authority and responsibility of the
implementation of an effective cross connection control program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 95-8-22-5, 8-22-1995; amd.
2003 Code)
8-2-3: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   City:
      1.   The city shall be responsible for the protection of the drinking
water distribution system from foreseeable conditions leading to possible
contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to the backflow of
contaminants or pollutants into the drinking water supply.
      2.   Drinking water system surveys/inspections of the consumer's water
distribution systems shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by
individuals deemed qualified by and representing the city. Records of all
surveys will be made by the qualified personnel and filed with the city.
      3.   The city shall notify in writing, all consumers of the need for the
periodic system survey to ensure compliance with existing applicable minimum
health and safety standards. The customer shall be notified twenty four (24)
hours prior to any inspection or survey.
      4.   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly for
containment control required at the service entrance shall be determined from
the results of the system survey and the degree of hazard.
      5.   The city shall employ a certified building official as well as a
water superintendent to enforce codes and ordinances concerning all plumbing
and piping on the consumer's side of the meter.
      6.   All building and construction drawings shall be reviewed for
potential cross connections. Owners, developer, builders and contractors shall
be made aware of the city's cross connection control policy as soon as possible
in their planning phase.
   B.   Consumer: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to purchase,
install, test and maintain any backflow prevention device/assembly required to
comply with this chapter and the applicable state laws, regulations and codes.
   C.   Building Official:
      1.   The building official's responsibility to enforce the applicable
sections of the plumbing code begins at the point of service (downstream or
consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the developed length of
the consumer's water system.
      2.   The building official will review all plans to ensure that
unprotected cross connections are not an integral part of the consumer's water
system. If a cross connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the
installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device, in
accordance with the Utah plumbing code.
      3.   Water vacating the drinking water supply must do so via an approved
air gap or approved mechanical backflow prevention assembly, properly installed
and in accordance with the Utah plumbing code.
   D.   Certified Backflow Assembly Technicians, Surveyors Or Repair Persons:
      1.   Whether employed by the city, consumer or a utility to survey, test,
repair or maintain backflow prevention assemblies, the certified backflow
technicians, surveyors or repair persons will have the following
responsibilities:
         a.   Ensure that acceptable testing equipment and procedure are used
for testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies;
         b.   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the consumer, water
purveyor, and the state bureau of drinking water/sanitation on forms approved
for such use by the state bureau of drinking water/sanitation, and within five
(5) days of testing;
         c.   Ensuring replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired;
         d.   Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics
of the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance;
         e.   Ensuring his/her license is current, the testing equipment being
used is acceptable to the state, and is in proper operating condition;
         f.   Be equipped with, and be competent to use, all necessary tools,
gauges and other equipment necessary to properly test and maintain backflow
prevention assemblies;
         g.   Notify the city, in writing, prior to any installation, test or
repair of any backflow prevention assembly. Also inform the customer in writing
of the possible thermal expansion danger posed by a closed system created by
the backflow assembly.
      2.   In the case of a consumer requiring a commercially available
technician, any certified technical is authorized to make the test and report
the results of that test to the consumer, water purveyor and the state bureau
of drinking water/sanitation. If such a commercially tested assembly is in need
of repair, a licensed plumber shall make the required repairs. (Ord. 95-8-22-5,
8-22-1995)
8-2-4: POLICY:
   A.   Protection Required: No water service connection shall be installed or
maintained by the city unless the water supply is protected as required by
state laws, regulations, codes and this chapter.
   B.   Violation; Discontinuance Of Service: Service of water to a consumer
found to be in violation of this chapter shall be discontinued. The consumer
shall be notified in writing of the violation and shall be given a reasonable
time to bring the system into compliance. Service shall not be restored until
all requirements are complied with.
   C.   Inspection: The customer's system shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the water purveyor to
determine whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this chapter, exist and to audit the results of the
required survey.
   D.   Hazard Present; Assembly Installation: Whenever the water purveyor
deems a service connection's water usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the
water supply, an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on
the service line of the identified consumer's water system at or near the
property line, or immediately inside the building being served; but, in all
cases, before the first branch line leading off the service line.
   E.   Type Of Assembly: The type of protective assembly required shall depend
upon the degree of hazard which exists at the point of cross connection
(whether direct or indirect), applicable to local and state requirements or
resulting from the required survey.
   F.   Presently Installed Assemblies: All presently installed backflow
prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this section but
were approved assemblies for the purpose described herein at the time of
installation and which have been properly maintained, shall, except for the
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
these rules so long as the water purveyor is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the public water system. Whenever the existing assembly
is moved from the present location or requires more than minimum maintenance,
or when the water purveyor finds that the operation or maintenance of this
assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by an
approve backflow prevention assembly meeting the local and state requirements.
   G.   Surveys/Inspections: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer at
any premises where backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have
certified surveys/inspections, and operational tests made at least once per
year at the consumer's expense. In those instances where the water purveyor
deems that hazard to be great, he may require certified surveys/inspections and
tests at a more frequent interval. It shall be the duty of the water purveyor
to see that these tests are made according to the standards set forth by the
state department of health, bureau of drinking water/sanitation.
   H.   Testing Upon Installation: All backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested within ten (10) working days of initial installation.
   I.   Hazards Prohibited: No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed
so as to create a safety hazard. Example: Installed over on electrical panel,
steam pipes, boilers, pits, or above ceiling level.
   J.   Discontinuance Of Service: If violations of this chapter exist or if
there has not been any corrective action taken by the consumer within ten (10)
days of the written notification of deficiencies noted within the survey, then
the water purveyor shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the
premises by providing a physical break in the service line until the customer
has corrected the condition in conformance with the state and city statutes
relating to plumbing, safe drinking water supplies and the regulations adopted
pursuant thereto. (Ord. 95-8-22-5, 8-22-1995)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Department And System
8-3-2: Use Mandatory; Distance Requirement
8-3-3: Application For Service
8-3-4: Rates And Fees
8-3-5: Plumbing Requirements
8-3-6: Installation Permits
8-3-7: Ownership Of Connecting Lines
8-3-8: Prohibited Acts And Activities
8-3-9: Trial Sewer Survey
8-3-10: Access By Department
8-3-11: Regulations Adopted
8-3-1: DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM:
   A.   Created: The sewer department is hereby created. It shall comprise all
of the property, equipment and personnel necessary to the maintenance and
operation of the municipal sewage collection and disposal system. The
department shall administer the operation and maintenance of the municipal
sewer system.
   B.   Superintendent:
      1.   Created: There is hereby created the position of superintendent of
the sewer department.
      2.   Duties: The superintendent of the sewer department shall manage and
supervise the municipal sewer system under the direction of the city council
which from time to time shall by resolution or otherwise prescribe his powers
and duties and direct the manner and frequency with which he shall make reports
to the mayor relating to the sewer system. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-
1984)
8-3-2: USE MANDATORY; DISTANCE REQUIREMENT 1 :
It shall be unlawful for the owner or any other person occupying or having
charge of any premises within the municipality which is located within three
hundred feet (300') of a sewer main to dispose of sewage thereof by any means
other than by use of the municipal sewer system. It shall be unlawful to
construct or to continue the use of any other sewage disposal system such as a
privy vault, cesspool or septic tank on the property except by written approval
of the city council in cases of undue hardship. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff.
11-28-1984)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsections
1 10-12-21C and
  10-12-24B of this code.
8-3-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Required: Any person who desires or is required to secure sewer service
when such service is available from the municipal sewer system shall apply
therefor to the city recorder and file an agreement with the municipality which
shall be in substantially the below stated form: (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff.
11-28-1984)
    APPLICATION FOR SEWER SERVICE
                                  
    (Date)
To the municipality of                   :
The undersigned hereby applies for sewer services from the municipality for
premises located at                     and hereby agrees to pay charges for
such sewer service as shall be fixed by the governing body of the municipality
by resolution until such time as I shall direct such service to be
discontinued.
In the event of a failure to pay for this service within the due dates fixed by
the governing body or of a failure of the occupant of the premises to conform
to the ordinances and regulations established by the governing body relating to
the use of the sewer system, the municipality shall have the right to
discontinue my water service from the municipal water system until all
delinquencies and any reconnection fees imposed are paid in full or until any
failure to conform to the sewer ordinances or regulations issued thereunder is
eliminated.
Additionally, I agree that the municipality shall have the right to institute
collection proceedings by all means available to it, including suit in a court
of proper jurisdiction. The applicant agrees to pay all costs of collection,
including court costs and attorney fees.
The undersigned agrees to be bound by the rules, regulations resolutions or
ordinances enacted or adopted by the governing body of the municipality
applicable to the municipality's sewer system.
                                            
   (Signed)
   (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Nonowner Applicants; Agreement By Owner: Applications for sewer
services made by the tenant of an owner must in addition to the above
requirement be guaranteed by an agreement signed by the owner of the premises
or his duly authorized agent to the following effect:
In consideration of the acceptance of the application for sewer service
submitted by (any present or future tenant)                     , I or we, will
pay for all sewer services furnished to such tenant, or other occupant of
                           (premises) in case such tenant or occupant shall
fail to pay for the same according to the ordinances, resolutions, rules or
regulations of the municipality.
                             
(Owner)
   (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984)
8-3-4: RATES AND FEES:
   A.   Authority: The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment and
connection fees for sewer services from the municipal sewer system shall be
fixed from time to time by resolution of the city council. The city council may
from time to time enact rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting
charges for sewer services and all other rules necessary for the management and
control of the sewer system. The city council may from time to time fix by
agreement or resolution special rates and conditions upon such terms as they
may deem proper for users of the sewer service discharging wastes of unusual
characteristics or making use thereof under exceptional circumstances. (Ord.
84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Biennial Review Of Operation And Maintenance Charges: The city council
shall review not less often than every two (2) years the wastewater
contribution of users and user classes, the total costs of operation and
maintenance of the treatment works, and its approved user charge system. The
city council shall revise the charges for users or user classes to accomplish
the following:
      1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes as required herein;
      2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the treatment works; and
      3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly. (Ord. 87-7-30-3, 7-30-1986)
   C.   Adjustments: Adjusting costs of operation and maintenance for all flow
not directly attributable to the users (i.e., infiltration/inflow) shall be
distributed among all users of the treatment works system based upon a
combination of the flow volume of the users and the number of hookups by the
users. (Ord. 87-7-30-3, 7-30-1986; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Notification To User: Each user of the treatment works system shall be
notified at least annually in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and
that portion of the user charges or ad valorem taxes which are attributable to
wastewater treatment services. (Ord. 87-7-30-3, 7-30-1986)
   E.   Complaints; Corrections: The city council is hereby constituted a board
of equalization of sewer rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any
assessments or charges deemed to be illegal, unequal or unjust. (Ord. 84-9, 11-
19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984)
   F.   Delinquency; Discontinuance Of Service: Sewer account delinquencies
shall be subject to the provisions set forth in section
8-1-4 of this title. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-5: PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Qualified Plumbing Necessary: It shall be unlawful for any person to
connect any drain or sewer pipe with the municipal sewer system unless the
person is a duly licensed plumber or unless, in the absence of a duly licensed
plumber, any proposed connection to, alteration of, or change of connection to
the sewer system shall be first submitted to the building inspector for review
and approval. After such approval, the installation or work done shall be
subject to inspection by the superintendent or his agent.
   B.   Pipes Kept In Good Repair: All users of the sewer services shall keep
their service pipes, connections and other apparatus in good repair and
protected from frost at their own expense. No person, except under the
direction of the sewer superintendent, shall be allowed to dig into the street
for the purpose of removing or repairing any sewer service pipe or main.
   C.   Quality Of Service Pipe: All service and other pipes used in
conjunction with the sewer services of the municipality shall be of such
material, quality and specifications as the city council may from time to time
by resolution provide and shall be installed at such distances below ground as
may be specified by regulations relating to the sewer department. All work,
alterations or extensions affecting sewer pipes shall be subject to the
acceptance of the building inspector, and no connections with sewer mains shall
be made without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city recorder. (Ord.
84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-6: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to directly or indirectly
engage in the laying, repairing, altering or connecting of any drain or sewer
pipe connected with or part of the municipal sewer system without first having
received a permit from the office of the city recorder.
   B.   Plumbing Requirements: Permits to connect to the municipal sewer system
shall not be issued unless the plumbing in the house or building to be
connected is in accordance with the provisions of the building and plumbing
codes of the municipality.
   C.   Revocation Of Permit: All construction permits for sewer connections or
installations shall be issued to the plumber who is to do the work or to the
owner of the property, subject to the supervision and inspection by the
building inspector or his agents. The city recorder or building inspector may
at any time revoke a permit because of defective work or because of undue delay
in completing the permitted work. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984; amd.
2003 Code)
8-3-7: OWNERSHIP OF CONNECTING LINES:
Unless provision is expressly made for ownership of mains or lines by the owner
of the adjacent property by means of written agreement, all lines and mains
connecting the sewer system to a landowner or resident's premises which are
situated on the public way between the main and the property line shall be
deemed to be the property of the municipality and subject to its absolute
control and supervision even though actual installation may have been performed
by the owner or resident of the premises. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-
1984)
8-3-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Uses:
      1.   Inflammables: It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, break
or remove any part or portion of any sewer appliance or appurtenance, or to
discharge into a sewer any inflammable gas, gasoline or oil, any calcium
carbide or residue therefrom, or any liquid or other material or substance
which will emit an inflammable gas when in contact with water, sewage or fire.
Oil separators installed in any building where volatile fluids are used must
not be connected directly or indirectly with a sewer. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984,
eff. 11-28-1984)
      2.   Waste Pipes From Enumerated Establishments: The contents of waste
pipes from water filters, gas engines, air compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners,
garages, wash racks, stores or warehouses containing inflammable substances,
car barns, buildings for the stabling or keeping of horses, cows and other
animals, or plants using milk or processing milk products, and all similar
establishments shall not be disposed of through connection with a sanitary
sewer unless such contents are discharged into settling tanks properly trapped
and vented. The construction of such tanks must be approved by the building
inspector, and must be subject to his inspection, approval or condemnation
before cement is poured and at all times thereafter until completion of such
construction. Upon condemnation by the building inspector, the sewage from the
tanks shall not be allowed to flow into the sewer until satisfactory
alterations have been made and the construction approved by the building
inspector. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   Obstructive Material: It shall be unlawful for any person to empty
or discharge into the public sanitary sewer any garbage, refuse or other
similar matter or substance likely to obstruct the sewer, or any substance,
solid or liquid, other than the waste products for which the sewer is provided.
(Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984)
      4.   Drainage Waters And Destructive Materials: It shall be unlawful for
any person to connect with a public sanitary sewer any drain or pipe which
discharges rainwater, cellar or surface water, acids, alkalies, lye or other
injurious liquids, or the contents of any spring, flowing well, creek, ditch,
or other watercourses. No boiler or heating plant shall be directly connected
to the sanitary sewer. The overflow from boilers or heating plants, when cooled
to a temperature not to exceed one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F),
will be allowed to run to a sump, which sump shall be connected to the sewer.
The discharge of the contents of waste pipes from water filters, gas engines,
air compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners, garages, wash racks, stores or
warehouses, which contain inflammable substances, buildings for the stabling or
keeping of horses, cows and other animals, and all similar establishments,
shall not be made into or connected with a sanitary sewer, unless such contents
are discharged into settling tanks properly trapped and vented. Settling tanks
shall be constructed of a material approved by the building inspector and shall
be at all times subject to his inspection and approval or condemnation. Upon
condemnation by the building inspector, the sewage from said tanks shall not be
allowed to flow into sewer until satisfactory alterations have been made and
the construction approved by the building inspector. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984,
eff. 11-28-1984; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Opening Manholes: It shall be unlawful for any person to open any sewer
manhole without permission from the superintendent.
   C.   Destruction Of System: It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy,
deface, injure or interfere with the operation of any part or appurtenance of
the sewer system. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984)
8-3-9: TRIAL SEWER SURVEY:
In order to determine the feasibility of connecting a basement or proposed
basement to the sanitary sewer, the owner or plumber may make application for a
trial sewer survey, the cost of which shall be as established from time to time
by resolution of the city council. The result of a trial sewer survey shall not
constitute a permit to connect to the sewer and is merely for information
purposes. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984)
8-3-10: ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT:
The sewer superintendent and his agents shall at all ordinary hours have free
access to places supplied with sewer services from the municipal system for the
purpose of examining the apparatus, ascertaining the sewer service being used
and the manner of its use. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984)
8-3-11: REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The city council shall have power to and retains the right to adopt regulations
controlling the manner and circumstances under which the sewer system may be
used in addition to the regulatory provisions set forth expressly in this
chapter. (Ord. 84-9, 11-19-1984, eff. 11-28-1984)
CHAPTER 4
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-4-1: Short Title And Purpose
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Establishment Of Protection Zones
8-4-4: Permitted Uses
8-4-5: Prohibited Uses
8-4-6: Administration
8-4-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter shall be known as the DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
ORDINANCE.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and
sanitary drinking water supply for the city by the establishment of drinking
water source protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are
the supply sources for the city water system and by the designation and
regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such
zones. (Ord. 02-1-8-2, 1-8-2002, eff. 2-8-2002)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
DESIGN STANDARD: A control that is implemented by a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges into the ground water. Spill protection is an
example of a design standard.
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, zoning and subdivision ordinances, site plan reviews,
design and operating standards, source prohibitions, purchase of property and
development rights, public education programs, ground water monitoring,
household hazardous waste collection programs, water conservation programs,
memoranda of understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so forth.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to ground water or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, storage facilities that store the
liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain fields,
class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps, landfilling of
sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, and animal feeding
operations with more than ten (10) animal units. The following clarify the
definition of pollution source:
   A.   Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period; crops, vegetation forage growth, or post harvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
   B.   Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding:
      1.   The number of slaughter and feeder cattle multiplied by 1.0;
      2.   The number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by 1.4;
      3.   The number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
by 0.4;
      4.   The number of sheep multiplied by 0.1;
      5.   The number of horses multiplied by 2.0.
   C.   Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified
in the section 302(EHS) column of the "title III list of list - consolidated
list of chemicals subject to reporting under SARA title III" (EPA 560/4-91-
011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate ground water. A pollution source
is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over "hazardous
waste", as defined herein.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAIN FIELD SYSTEMS: A system that is comprised of a septic tank
and a drain field which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or
facilities for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank/
drain field system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord. 02-1-8-2, 1-8-2002, eff. 2-8-2002)
8-4-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF PROTECTION ZONES:
There are hereby established use districts to be known as zone one, zone two,
zone three and zone four of the drinking water source protection area,
identified and described as follows:
   A.   Zone one is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius from the
wellhead.
   B.   Zone two is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day ground water
time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies
water to the ground water source, or the ground water divide, whichever is
closer.
   C.   Zone three (waiver criteria zone) is the area within a three (3) year
ground water time of travel to the wellhead or margin of the collection area,
the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to the ground water source,
or the ground water divide, whichever is closer.
   D.   Zone four is the area within a fifteen (15) year ground water time of
travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to
the ground water source, or the ground water divide, whichever is closer. (Ord.
02-1-8-2, 1-8-2002, eff. 2-8-2002)
8-4-4: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted within drinking water source protection
zones:
Any use permitted within existing agricultural, single-family residential,
multi-family residential and commercial districts so long as uses conform to
the rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies.
Any other open land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use. (Ord. 02-1-8-2, 1-8-
2002, eff. 2-8-2002)
8-4-5: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
drinking water sources protection zones, whether or not such use or condition
may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section
8-4-4 of this chapter:
   A.   Zone One: The location of "potential contamination sources", as defined
herein, unless they are controlled with design standards.
   B.   Zone Two: The location of "pollution sources", as defined herein,
unless their contaminated discharges are controlled with design standards.
   C.   Zones Three And Four: The location of potential contamination sources
unless they are controlled through land management strategies. (Ord. 02-1-8-2,
1-8-2002, eff. 2-8-2002)
8-4-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any source protection zone
established under this chapter, including without limitation those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exception, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the same is
presently enacted or may be amended. (Ord. 02-1-8-2, 1-8-2002, eff. 2-8-2002)
CHAPTER 5
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF WATER AND SEWER SERVICE LATERALS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Separate Connection Required
8-5-2: Installation Of Water Meters
8-5-3: Ownership Of Water Service Lateral–Responsibility For Installation And
Maintenance
8-5-4: Ownership Of Sewer Service Laterals–Responsibility For Installation And
Maintenance
8-5-5: Installation Of Service Laterals In New Subdivisions
8-5-6: Installation Of New Sewer Service Line In New Home Construction
8-5-7: All Installation To Be In Accordance With City Standards
8-5-8: Repair Of Street And/Or Right Of Way Following Water Or Sewer
Connections
8-5-1: SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED:
A separate and independent service lateral shall be provided for each premises
for both water and sewer. (Ord. 03-10-28-7, 10-28-2003, eff. 12-7-2003)
8-5-2: INSTALLATION OF WATER METERS:
Water meters will be furnished, installed and maintained by the city. (Ord. 03-
10-28-7, 10-28-2003, eff. 12-7-2003)
8-5-3: OWNERSHIP OF WATER SERVICE LATERAL–RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE:
All water service lines located between the meter box and the connection to the
main line (corp stop) including the meter box and meter setter shall be
installed by or under the direction of the city and be owned and maintained by
the city. The costs of installation shall be paid by the applicant for the
water service. If any existing water line, meter, or other water service
elements are damaged as a result of a contractor excavating or other cause, the
city may require the person or entity causing the damage to, at the city's
discretion, either pay the cost of repair or to repair such damage. (Ord. 03-
10-28-7, 10-28-2003, eff. 12-7-2003)
8-5-4: OWNERSHIP OF SEWER SERVICE LATERALS–RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE:
All sewer service laterals lying within the right of way of a city street shall
be installed by or under the direction of the city and be owned by the city;
provided however, that all maintenance of said service lateral and any damage
to the building or contents that may arise as a result of a blockage of said
lateral shall be the responsibility of the property owner and/or occupant
regardless of whether the lateral is within a public street, easement or on
private property. If any sewer line or other elements of the city sewer system
are damaged as a result of a contractor excavating or other cause, the city may
require, at the city's discretion, the person or entity causing the damage to
either compensation by the offending party to pay the cost of repair or repair
such damage. (Ord. 03-10-28-7, 10-28-2003, eff. 12-7-2003)
8-5-5: INSTALLATION OF SERVICE LATERALS IN NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Cost Of Installation: Water and sewer service laterals shall be
installed from the main line to the outer edge of the public street as part of
the required improvements for a subdivision. The developer of the new
subdivision shall be required to have inspected the finished sewer lateral and
any connections to it using a pipeline camera and shall furnish a copy of the
video inspection tape, which denotes the location and date, to the city prior
to the final inspection by the building inspector. Water service laterals shall
include the installation of the meter box and meter setter. All costs of
installation shall be borne by the developer as determined by resolution by the
city council. (Ord. 03-10-28-7, 10-28-2003, eff. 12-7-2003)
8-5-6: INSTALLATION OF NEW SEWER SERVICE LINE IN NEW HOME CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Cost Of Installation: The builder and/or contractor of any house or
structure connecting to the city sewer system shall be required to install the
sewer connection to the city owned sewer lateral and have inspected the
finished sewer lateral to its connection with the sewer main in the street and
any connections to said lateral. A pipeline video camera shall be used for this
inspection and a copy of the video inspection tape, which denotes the location
and date, shall be delivered to the city prior to the final inspection by the
building inspector. This video inspection tape shall be in addition to any
previous video inspection tapes delivered to the city.
All costs of installation shall be borne by the contractor and/or owner as
determined by resolution by the city council. (Ord. 03-10-28-7, 10-28-2003,
eff. 12-7-2003)
8-5-7: ALL INSTALLATION TO BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Posting Of Bond: All material and construction used in connection with
the installation of a sewer or water lateral or the extension of the city's
water or sewer system shall be in accordance with city standards and
specifications that may be adopted from time to time. Any and all construction
described herein shall require posting of a bond in the amount as may be
determined by the city, but not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
which shall be held by the city for a period not less than two (2) years for
the purpose of guaranteeing the material and construction is free from defects
in material or workmanship. (Ord. 03-10-28-7, 10-28-2003, eff. 12-7-2003)
8-5-8: REPAIR OF STREET AND/OR RIGHT OF WAY FOLLOWING WATER OR SEWER
CONNECTIONS:
Following the installation of water and sewer connections to the city water
and/or sewer connections, the developer/builder/contractor shall repair the
city street and/or right of way in accordance with city ordinances dealing with
city roads and streets prior to release of any bonds. (Ord. 03-10-28-7, 10-28-
2003, eff. 12-7-2003)
CHAPTER 6
STORM WATER SEWER MANAGEMENT SERVICES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Understanding Of Storm Water Runoff
8-6-2: Purposes And Objectives
8-6-3: Definitions
8-6-4: Potential Hazards Declared
8-6-5: Storm Water Sewer Utility Created
8-6-6: Ownership Of City Storm Water Facilities And Assets
8-6-7: No Polluted Waters Discharged To Storm Sewers
8-6-8: System Of Rates And Charges
8-6-9: Billing And Collection
8-6-9-1: Billing
8-6-9-2: Collection
8-6-9-3: Appeal Of Charges
8-6-1: UNDERSTANDING OF STORM WATER RUNOFF:
The city's physical growth and urban development has and will continue to
increase the amount of storm water runoff collected and routed, using the
city's storm water drainage system and facilities. Storm water runoff has been
known to cause property damage and erosion, carry concentrations of nutrients,
chemicals, heavy metals, oil and toxic materials into receiving waters and
ground waters which then degrade the integrity of city streets, curbs, gutters
and other infrastructure for conveying storm water. This can reduce the
citizens' access to emergency services and imposes hazards to both life and
property. Additionally, the federal government has established, through its
clean water act, environmental protection regulations for water quality and
NPDES permit requirements for the discharge of storm water into receiving
waters. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-2: PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES:
In view of section
8-6-1 of this chapter, the purposes and objectives of this chapter are to:
   A.   Provide and maintain a storm water system for handling storm water
runoff;
   B.   Provide for the establishment of fair, equitable and nondiscriminatory
rates and charges for a storm water system and related services which will
generate sufficient revenue for operating, improving and maintaining the storm
water utility at a level commensurate with storm water management needs. The
rates and charges shall be determined by considering needed revenues and the
amount of impervious surface on developed parcels and the respective storm
water runoff characteristic of the parcel, and apply said rates and charges for
the same class of customers; and
   C.   Establish a policy that present and future rates and charges for this
service should be fixed with consideration of the differences in cost fairly
allocated to the various customers based upon such factors as the intensity of
development of the parcel; the types of development on the parcel; the cost of
maintenance, operation, repair and improvements of the various parts of the
utility; the quantity and quality of the runoff generated; and other factors
which present a reasonable basis for distinction and which will allow for
management of the storm drainage system in a manner that protects the public
health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the following meanings:
CITY: Elk Ridge City.
COUNCIL: The city council.
CUSTOMER OR PERSON: Any individual, the public; public or private corporation
and its officers; partnership; association; firm; trustee; executor of an
estate; the state or its departments, institutions, bureaus, agencies, county;
city; political subdivision; or any other governmental or legal entity
recognized by law.
DEVELOPED PARCEL: Any parcel, which has been altered by grading or filling of
the ground surface, or construction of any improvements or other impervious
surface area thereon.
DIRECTOR: The director of the department of public works or the director's
designee.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): A configuration of development, or
impervious surfaces on a parcel, contributing runoff to the city's storm water
drainage system or which represents the estimated use of the system that is
approximately equal to that contributed by a single-family residential parcel.
A single-family residential parcel has been determined to contain an average of
two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of impervious surfaces. One ERU
is equal to two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of impervious surface
area.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
REGULATIONS: The provisions of the federal clean water act establishing
specific permit requirements for the control of storm water discharges.
NONPOLLUTED: When used in connection with water or any other referenced medium,
means that medium shall not have been contaminated with a pollutant.
PARCEL: The smallest separately segregated unit or plot of land, with person or
persons identified as owner(s); having boundaries and surface area, which is
documented and given a property number by Utah County.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PARCEL: Any parcel of land which is improved with a
dwelling unit.
STORM WATER: Water produced by storms, surface drainage, snow and ice melt,
spring flows, ground water and other water handled by the storm water sewer
system.
STORM WATER FACILITIES: Any facility, improvement, development, property or
interest therein made, constructed or acquired for the purposes of controlling
storm water quantity and quality.
STORM WATER SEWER SYSTEM: The city storm water system comprised of storm water
facilities, streets and any other features which store, control, treat and/or
convey storm water.
STORM WATER SEWER UTILITY OR UTILITY: The utility created through this chapter
which maintains, regulates and improves storm water facilities and programs
within Elk Ridge City.
UNDEVELOPED PARCEL: Any parcel which has not been altered by grading or filling
of the ground surface, or by construction of any improvements or other
impervious surface area which affected the hydraulic properties of the parcel.
(Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-4: POTENTIAL HAZARDS DECLARED:
The city council finds and declares that absent effective maintenance,
operation, regulation and control, existing storm water drainage conditions
within the city constitute a potential hazard to the health, safety, welfare
and property of the city inhabitants. All manmade storm water facilities and
conveyances, and natural storm water drainage within the city limits, except
those included under authorization issued to counties by state law for
management of certain storm water runoff, constitute the city's storm water
sewer system. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-5: STORM WATER SEWER UTILITY CREATED:
There is created and established a storm water sewer utility to be known as a
storm water sewer utility. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-6: OWNERSHIP OF CITY STORM WATER FACILITIES AND ASSETS:
The city's storm sewer assets to be transferred to the utility shall be
determined by the mayor, or the mayor's designee, and transferred to the
utility. Until such transfer, the utility shall operate, maintain and improve
all city storm sewer facilities used for the conveyance of storm waters,
through, under or over lands, watercourses beginning at a point where the storm
waters first enter the storm sewer system of the city and ending in each
instance at a point where the storm water exits from the system. (Ord. 04-2, 1-
27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-7: NO POLLUTED WATERS DISCHARGED TO STORM SEWERS:
The only substances dischargeable under this chapter into the city's storm
sewer are storm water, surface drainage, subsurface drainage, ground water,
roof runoff, cooling water or nonpolluted water. Such waters may be discharged
only into storm sewers, which have adequate capacity for the accommodation of
such waters. Such discharged water shall comply with the city's storm water
quality standards. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-8: SYSTEM OF RATES AND CHARGES:
There are hereby imposed storm sewer service fee rates and charges on each
parcel of real property within the city. The charges shall fund the
administration, planning, design, construction, water quality programming,
operation, maintenance and repair of existing and future storm water
facilities. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-9: BILLING AND COLLECTION:
8-6-9-1: BILLING:
The department of public utilities shall cause billings for storm water sewer
utility services to be rendered periodically to the person who is the owner of
the parcel, or the owner's agent, who has signed for water and sanitary sewer
service to the parcel. The amounts to be billed shall be included on the
existing department of public utilities bill as a separate line item. A storm
water only billing will be sent to those persons who are owners of parcels
within the city, but not currently city utility customers. The fee amount(s)
for the storm water utility charges shall be established by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-9-2: COLLECTION:
   A.   Partial Payment On Combined Bill: In the event partial payment is made
on a combined bill, the payment shall be applied to each service on a pro rata
basis.
   B.   Delinquency: In the event of delinquency, fees and charges levied in
accordance herewith shall be a debt due the city. If this debt is not paid
within thirty (30) days after billing, it shall be deemed delinquent and
subject to recovery in a civil action and/or said department shall have the
right to terminate water and sewer services to the premises. Any uncollected
amount due from the person or persons who own the parcel on any inactive,
terminated or discontinued account may be transferred to any active account
under the same person's or persons' name(s) and upon failure to pay such bill
after at least five (5) days' prior written notice, water and other city
services to that account and parcel may be discontinued.
   C.   Restoration Of Service: Water, sewer, garbage and storm service shall
not be restored until all charges have been paid in full or an appropriate
repayment agreement has been made between the property owner and the city.
   D.   Utility Enterprise Fund: There is created the storm water utility
enterprise fund. All funds received from such storm water services charges
shall be placed in the enterprise fund and left separate and apart from all
other city funds. The collection, accounting and expenditure of all storm water
sewer utility funds shall be in accordance with the existing fiscal policy of
the city. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-2004)
8-6-9-3: APPEAL OF CHARGES:
   A.   Any owner or person who considers the city's storm water charge applied
to their parcel to be inaccurate, or who otherwise disagrees with the utility
rate determinations, may apply to the director for a service charge adjustment.
Such a request shall be in writing and state the grounds of such an appeal. The
director shall review the case file and determine whether an error was made in
the calculation or application of the fee and make an adjustment to the charge,
if necessary, to provide for proper application of the city's rates and charges
pursuant hereto. In all cases, the decision of the director shall be final
unless appealed.
   B.   Any appeal under this chapter shall be filed in writing with the
director no later than twenty (20) days after said billing. Any subsequent
appeal shall be brought within twenty (20) days after the date of the appealed
decision.
   C.   Appeal of decisions made by the director may be brought before the city
council, who may reevaluate the issue raised in the appeal. Decisions of the
city council shall be final and conclusive.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to grant a right to judicial
review that does not otherwise exist at law. (Ord. 04-2, 1-27-2004, eff. 2-16-
2004)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose And Intent
9-1-2: Codes Adopted
9-1-3: Successor Codes
9-1-4: Supplementary Provisions To Codes
9-1-5: Stop Work Orders
9-1-6: Notice Of Violation; Failure To Comply
9-1-7: Penalties
9-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish the regulatory codes
and guidelines to govern construction within the City in a thorough and concise
manner while also providing for the adoption of changes to the codes and
guidelines without the necessity of adopting new ordinances for each change or
amendment to said codes and guidelines. (Ord. 02-11-26-20, 11-26-2002, eff. 12-
11-2002)
9-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The International Building Code (IBC), and the
International Residential Code (IRC), as adopted by the State, is hereby
adopted as the official Building Code for the City, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter
   B.   Fire Code: The International Fire Code (IFC), as adopted by the State,
is hereby adopted as the official Fire Code for the City, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Utah Wildland - Urban Interface Code: The Utah Wildland - Urban
Interface Code, as adopted by the State, is hereby adopted as the official
Wildland - Urban Interface Code for the City, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Other Codes As Approved: All other Building, Plumbing, Electrical,
Mechanical, Energy and/or Natural Gas Codes established and adopted as standard
by the State at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified herein,
including their amendments, shall hereby become established as the adopted
codes of the City, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-10, 10-10-2017; amd. Ord. 24-1, 1-9-2024)
9-1-3: SUCCESSOR CODES:
The adoption of any and all codes, as established herein, as the adopted codes
of the City, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they become
adopted by the State and shall become effective by the City immediately upon
passage by the State legislature. (Ord. 02-11-26-20, 11-26-2002, eff. 12-11-
2002)
9-1-4: SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS TO CODES:
The following provisions shall become the adopted and established policy of the
City in addition to the codes and provisions established herein and/or in
replacement of conflicting provisions within said codes:
   A.   Temporary Certificates Of Occupancy: A temporary certificate of
occupancy may be issued for weather related circumstances only where the
completion of work, such as concrete, on a residence is made impossible or
reasonably impractical. Under no circumstances may a temporary certificate of
occupancy be issued if any safety related improvements (i.e., handrails,
guardrails, electrical work, etc.) exist in an incomplete state.
      1.   Bonding: In the case that a temporary certificate of occupancy may
be issued, a bond shall be placed with the City in the amount of one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of the work to be completed,
as determined by the building official. Bonds may be cash bonds from the
property owner or the lending institution or bank funding the construction of
the residence.
      2.   Issuance: A temporary certificate of occupancy may only be issued by
the building official under review and advisement from the Mayor.
      3.   Release: Under no circumstance shall any bond, or portion thereof,
be released until such time as all remaining work necessitating the temporary
certificate of occupancy is completed, inspected and approved by the building
official, and a permanent certificate of occupancy is issued by the City.
      4.   Maintenance: In the event that a temporary certificate of occupancy
is issued, the property and adjacent areas shall be kept in a clean and orderly
state at all times. Should the property or the adjacent areas become disorderly
or unclean, including, but not limited to, vehicles tracking dirt and/or mud
onto City streets, the City is hereby authorized to take whatever action
necessary to clean the site or bring the site back into an orderly state, with
the costs of doing so to be charged against the posted bond. Should these costs
total an amount greater than the amount bonded, the property owner shall be
responsible to pay the difference.
      5.   Mitigation: It shall be the sole discretion of the building official
to place requirements upon a structure, in combination with a temporary
certificate of occupancy, in order to eliminate any potential health, safety,
and/or general welfare risk to any resident or occupant of the structure. Any
violation of the mitigation measures placed onto a structure in combination
with a temporary certificate of occupancy shall be the sole responsibility of
the property owner and may result in the revocation of the temporary
certificate of occupancy.
      6.   Termination Of Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy: All incomplete
construction associated with a properly issued temporary certificate of
occupancy shall be constructed and inspected at the earliest reasonable point
following the removal, expiration or termination of the conditions
necessitating or permitting the temporary certificate of occupancy.
      7.   Revocation: A temporary certificate of occupancy may be revoked by
the Mayor only if evidence shows that clear violations of the building codes or
the mitigation terms of the temporary certificate of occupancy.
   B.   Trash Receptacles: All properties on which construction is being done
shall have a fully functional trash receptacle on the property and all garbage
and construction waste shall be contained within said receptacle. All trash
receptacles shall be placed on the site and shall not be located on a street or
public right-of-way. All such receptacles shall be of sufficient size and
nature to adequately contain all garbage and construction waste on the site at
all times, including lids or covers in the event of winds. Construction sites
which are disorderly or which contain loose garbage may be passed over for a
scheduled inspection and the cost of conducting said inspection being charged
as a penalty.
   C.   Cleated Or Track Equipment: Any equipment or vehicles used for the
construction of a residence, or other building, which has track mobility or
cleated tires of any kind, shall be kept off City rights-of-way at all times in
order to avoid damage to the right-of-way. The loading or unloading of such
vehicles and equipment to or from a truck or trailer shall be done directly
onto the property in order to avoid travel and damage to the right-of-way. Any
damage to the improvements of a City right-of- way from a vehicle or equipment
of this type shall be the sole responsibility of the contractor or agent
responsible for the equipment causing the damage. Said contractor shall also be
responsible for the proper replacement, including inspection costs, of any
damaged infrastructure in this regard. The City shall also have the ability to
repair any such damage with the party for the damage being responsible for
reimbursement for the costs incurred to make the necessary repairs. In addition
to the penalties associated with a violation of this subsection, any travel of
track or cleated vehicles or equipment upon any part of a City right-of-way
shall result in an immediate fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) from the
City to the responsible party. Payment of said fine shall be made to the City
office within seventy two (72) hours of notification of said fine being
incurred. Failure to make payment of said fine within the allotted time frame
may result in a stop work order being issued by the building official for the
nonpayment of the fine, and such an order shall be immediately rescinded by the
building official upon payment of the fine.
   D.   Temporary Water: Each residence being constructed shall be charged one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the setting of a temporary water meter for the
purpose of construction. Said charge shall not include the setting of a
permanent water meter following final inspection approval or the payment of the
water hookup fee. Any water usage with a temporary meter shall be charged to
the contractor according to the current rate of culinary water utilities within
the City.
   E.   Road Maintenance: During the time of construction on a residence, or
other building, the contractor shall be responsible for the maintenance of all
adjacent streets or public rights-of- way, including, but not limited to, trash
collection, ensuring gutters are clean, ensuring any and all storm drain
facilities are kept free of garbage, debris and unnecessary dirt and mud.
Streets shall be kept free of dirt and mud tracked from the construction site
and shall be cleaned regularly, as needed. Any violation of this subsection may
result, at the building official's discretion, in the passing over of scheduled
inspections for the site and/or structure under construction. In such an event,
the normal costs of conducting the inspection scheduled shall be charged as a
penalty.
   F.   Mitigation Powers: In the event that mitigation becomes necessary to
correct problems not otherwise outlined herein, the building official shall
have the ability, under the direction of the Mayor, to take the necessary
action to eliminate or minimize any such problem. Any costs incurred by the
City in the effort to mitigate any such problem may be charged to the party
responsible for the problem.
   G.   Fast Tracking: Under no circumstances shall any construction activities
commence, including, but not limited to, building, earthwork, digging and/or
grading, on a structure or construction site prior to the applicant, or their
agent, receiving an approved building permit from the City office or the
building official. No building permit shall be issued by the City, or the
building official, until all requirements for reviewing and approving building
permits, according to the City approved process for achieving a building
permit, are satisfied in full, including, but not limited to, the payment of
any and all fees associated with said building permit. Any person found in
violation of any subsection of this section of code may receive a notice and
possible stop work order from authorized city administration. The notice shall
state the violation and may include the course and timeframe for correction.
The notice may include a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) as
accessed by the authorized city administrator. The person found in violation
may be subject to additional penalties as provided in section "Chapter 4" of
this code.
   H.   Conflict in Adopted Codes: Where a conflict may be found in adopted
code as listed above in Chapter 9 or any part thereof, interpretation shall be
at the discretion of the Fire Marshall, Building Official or Enforcement
Officer based on the nature of the conflict and individual situation.
Generally, the more stringent of the conflicting codes shall apply. (Ord. 02-
11-26-20, 11-26-2002, eff. 12-11-2002; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-8-2022)
9-1-5: STOP WORK ORDERS:
The city administration, code enforcement, and building inspector may issue a
stop work order whenever any person shall engage in construction, alteration or
repair of a structure, building, facility, or improvement without having first
obtained a permit for such work when required by this city code or state law,
or whenever any person who, holding a permit, is in violation of said permit.
Such stop work order, when oral, shall be followed by a written stop work order
posted at the site or delivered to the person in person within twenty four (24)
hours. It shall be unlawful to continue with any work in violation of a stop
work order until such order has been revoked by the city in writing, and any
person who continues work shall be cited and assessed the fines and penalties
hereinafter prescribed. (Ord. 22-02, 3-8-2022)
9-1-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; FAILURE TO COMPLY:
When a person is engaged in or has engaged in the construction, alteration, or
repair of a structure, building, facility, or improvement without having first
obtained a permit for such work when required by this city code or state law,
or any person who, holding a permit, is in violation of said permit, the person
shall be notified of such violation by posting a notice of violation at the
site and by delivering a notice of violation to the violator in person or by
registered or certified mail. Said notice shall state the nature of the
violation and shall further state that unless there is compliance with the
terms of this chapter within five (5) days from the receipt of such notice, or
such other time as the city may deem appropriate under the circumstances of the
violation, the violator shall be subject to the fines and penalties hereinafter
prescribed. If, upon the expiration of such time, the Mayor shall find the
violation is not corrected, any permit issued shall be revoked, and the
violator shall be cited and assessed the fines and penalties hereinafter
prescribed. (Ord. 22-02, 3-8-2022)
9-1-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall engage in construction, alteration, or repair of any type
in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
9-1-4G,
4-2A-3 and
4-2B-8: of this code, and in addition, each day or part thereof that the
violation shall continue after proper notice of such violation shall be
considered a separate distinct violation hereof and be cited as a misdemeanor
and fined accordingly. However, nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
restrict any right of the City administration to take whatever other action or
remedy available and necessary to secure compliance with the terms of this
chapter. (Ord. 22-02, 3-8-2022)
CHAPTER 2
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Intent And Purpose
9-2-2: Impact Fee District Established
9-2-3: Schedule Of Fees
9-2-4: Imposition Of Impact Fee
9-2-5: Payment Of Fee
9-2-6: Impact Fees Review Requirements
9-2-7: Accounting
9-2-8: Use Of Funds
9-2-9: Refund Of Fees Paid
9-2-10: Exemptions
9-2-11: Appeals
9-2-12: Applicability Of Culinary Water Impact Fees
9-2-13: Enforcement
9-2-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to assist in the implementation of the city general
plan and development code. The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use
and development of land so as to assure that new development bears a
proportionate share of the cost of capital expenditures necessary for public
facility improvements in the city. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-2009, eff. 4-15-2009)
9-2-2: IMPACT FEE DISTRICT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an impact fee district for culinary water,
essential roadways, parks, wastewater for Elk Ridge, and wastewater for Payson/
Salem. The entire city is considered one district for each fee. (Ord. 14-7, 9-
23-2014, eff. 12-23-2014)
9-2-3: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
Prior to and as a condition of building permit or permit for a manufactured
home issuance, impact fees, in amounts to be determined by the city council,
shall be conveyed by the homebuilder for each lot. The city council may, from
time to time, amend said fees and charges by ordinance. The table below lists
the approved impact fees.
 
Impact Fee Type                       Fee
Culinary water impact fee             $ 5,653.00
Essential roadway impact fee          3,304.00
Park impact fee                       2,393.00
Wastewater impact fee - Elk Ridge     897.00
Wastewater impact fee - Payson/Salem  2,200.00
Total impact fees per building permit 14,447.00
 
(Ord. 15-3, 8-25-2015, eff. 12-23-2015)
9-2-4: IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEE:
Any person who seeks to develop land within the city by applying for a building
permit or a manufactured home permit is hereby required to pay an impact fee in
the manner set forth in this chapter. No new building permit for any activity
requiring payment of an impact fee shall be issued unless and until the impact
fee hereby required has been paid. No extension of a building permit issued
prior to the effective date hereof for any activity requiring payment of an
impact fee shall be granted unless and until the impact fee hereby required has
been paid. The city may impose an impact fee for capital improvements costs
previously incurred by the city to the extent that new growth and development
will be served by the previously constructed improvement. (Ord. 14-7, 9-23-
2014, eff. 12-23-2014)
9-2-5: PAYMENT OF FEE:
Required impact fees shall be paid to the city prior to the issuance of a
building permit. All funds collected shall be properly identified by impact fee
type and district, and promptly transferred for deposit in the appropriate
impact fee trust fund to be held in separate accounts and used solely for the
purposes related to each specific impact fee type. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-2009, eff.
4-15-2009)
9-2-6: IMPACT FEES REVIEW REQUIREMENTS:
Impact fees shall be fixed by ordinance by the city council and shall be
reviewed by the city council at least once each fiscal biennium (i.e., every 2
years) and may be revised from time to time, by amendment of the ordinance by
the city council to reflect changes in costs or other base data pertinent to
the formula. Impact fees shall be developed through an impact fee study. Any
changes to an impact fee ordinance shall require a public hearing that must be
noticed fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-2009, eff. 4-
15-2009)
9-2-7: ACCOUNTING:
   A.   Capital Improvements Fund: The fees collected pursuant to this
provision shall be deposited in a capital improvements fund and shall be used
to purchase or make capital improvements benefiting the new development for
which impact fees have been assessed. (Ord. 14-7, 9-23-2014, eff. 12-23-2014)
   B.   Accumulation In Separate Accounts: The city may, in accordance with
state law, accumulate in separate accounts, revenues received pursuant to this
provision until such time as there are sufficient monies to purchase or
construct the designated capital improvements.
   C.   Interest Bearing Account; Included, Excluded Improvements:
      1.   The impact fee should be deposited into an interest bearing ledger
account and may be only used for capital improvements to the capital facility
system for which the fee was collected.
      2.   These improvements may include the construction contract price, the
cost of acquiring land, improvements, materials and fixtures, the cost for
planning, surveying and engineering fees for services provided for and directly
related to the construction of the system improvements, the debt service
charges incurred if the improvements are financed by bonds, notes or other
obligations carrying debt service charges, and for the cost of issuance of any
such bonds, notes or other obligations.
      3.   The impact fees may not be used for operation or maintenance costs
for any public facilities within the city. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-2009, eff. 4-15-
2009)
9-2-8: USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   Funds collected from impact fees shall be used solely for the purpose
of acquiring and/or making capital improvements and their related costs to
public facilities under the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   Funds shall be used exclusively for acquisitions, expansions, or
capital improvements within the impact fee district, as identified in the
written analysis, from which the funds were collected or for projects in other
impact fee districts which are of benefit to the impact fee district from which
the funds were collected. Funds shall be expended in the order in which they
are collected.
   C.   In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments are issued for
advanced provision of capital facilities for which impact fees may be expended,
impact fees may be used to pay debt service on such bonds or similar debt
instruments to the extent that the facilities provided are of the type
described in subsection A of this section and are located within the
appropriate impact fee districts.
   D.   At least once each fiscal period, the mayor shall present to the city
council a proposed capital improvements program for public facilities,
assigning funds, including any accrued interest, from the several impact fee
trust funds, to specific public improvement projects and related expenses.
Monies, including any accrued interest, not assigned in any fiscal period,
shall be retained in the same impact fee trust funds until the next fiscal
period, except as provided by the refund provisions of this chapter.
   E.   The city shall be entitled to retain not more than ten percent (10%) of
the funds collected as compensation for the expense of collecting the fee and
administering this chapter. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-2009, eff. 4-15-2009)
9-2-9: REFUND OF FEES PAID:
If a building permit or a manufactured home permit expires without commencement
of construction, the fees have not been spent or encumbered, and no impact has
resulted, then the fee payer shall be entitled to a refund, with interest at
the rate the city received on the monies per annum, of the impact fee paid as a
condition for its issuance, except that the city shall retain ten percent (10%)
of the fee to offset a portion of the cost of collection and refund. The fee
payer must submit an application for such a refund to the city within thirty
(30) days of the expiration of the permit. Except as provided in Utah Code
Annotated 11-36-302(b), any funds not expended or encumbered by the end of the
calendar quarter immediately following six (6) years from the date the impact
fee was paid shall, upon application of the current landowner, be returned to
such landowner with interest at the rate the city received on the monies per
annum; provided, that the landowner submits an application for a refund to the
city within one hundred eighty (180) days of the expiration of the six (6) year
period. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-2009, eff. 4-15-2009)
9-2-10: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following may be exempted from payment of the impact fee:
      1.   Alterations or expansion of an existing building where no additional
residential dwelling units are created and where the use is not changed.
      2.   The construction of accessory buildings or structures where no
additional residential dwelling units are created and where the use is not
changed.
      3.   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building or
structure with a new building or structure of the same size and use.
      4.   The installation of a replacement mobile or manufactured home on a
lot or other such site when an impact fee for such mobile or manufactured home
site has previously been paid pursuant to this chapter.
      5.   The construction of buildings by a government agency or other
development activities such as low income housing with a broad public purpose
as determined by the city. In the event that an exemption is granted, the city
council shall establish the source of funding to pay for the impact of the
development activity.
   B.   The city may allow a credit against impact fees for any dedication of
land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system improvements
provided by the developer if the facilities are identified in the capital
facilities plan, are required by the local political subdivision as a condition
of approving the development activity.
   C.   Any claim of exemption must be made no later than the time of
application for a building permit. Any claim not so made shall be deemed
waived.
   D.   Special exceptions, waivers or credits may be granted, at the sole
discretion of the city council to respond to unusual circumstances in specific
cases and to ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-
2009, eff. 4-15-2009)
9-2-11: APPEALS:
Any person or entity residing in or owning property within the city, and any
organization, association, or corporation representing the interests of persons
or entities owning property within the city, may file a declaratory judgment
action challenging the validity of the fee. Any person or entity required to
pay an impact fee who believes the fee does not meet the requirements of law
may file a written request for information with the city. Within two (2) weeks
of the receipt of the request for information, the city shall provide the
person or entity with the written analysis required by Utah code section 11-36-
201 and with any other relevant information relating to the impact fee. Within
thirty (30) days after paying an impact fee, any person or entity who has paid
the fee and wishes to challenge the fee may do so pursuant to Utah code section
11-36-401. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-2009, eff. 4-15-2009)
9-2-12: APPLICABILITY OF CULINARY WATER IMPACT FEES:
The culinary water impact fees are for system improvements and in no wise
repeal or rescind the water transfer required upon development, after
annexation, to ensure that an adequate supply of water exists. (Ord. 09-2, 4-
14-2009, eff. 4-15-2009)
9-2-13: ENFORCEMENT:
The city may enforce the provisions of this chapter by an action at law or in
equity in any court having jurisdiction. (Ord. 09-2, 4-14-2009, eff. 4-15-2009)
CHAPTER 3
URBAN/WILDLAND INTERFACE AREA
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Location Of Area
9-3-3: Permits Required
9-3-4: Roads
9-3-5: Addresses
9-3-6: Fire Hydrants
9-3-7: Chimneys And Flues
9-3-8: Structural Design And Construction
9-3-9: Vegetative Clearance
9-3-10: Enforcement
9-3-11: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CLASSIFICATION OF ROOF COVERINGS: The classification of a covering established
by the building code. The two (2) classifications of roof coverings allowed in
the urban/wildland interface are as follows:
   A.   Class A: These roof coverings are effective against severe fire
exposures. Under such exposures, roof coverings of this class are not readily
flammable, afford a fairly high degree of fire protection to the roof deck, do
not slip from position and pose no flying hazard in accordance with ASTM E, 108
and ASTM D, 2898.
   B.   Class B: These roof coverings are effective against moderate fire
exposures. Under such exposures, roof coverings of this class are not readily
flammable, afford a moderate degree of fire protection to the roof deck, do not
slip from position and pose no flying hazard in accordance with ASTM E, 108 and
ASTM D, 2898.
CLUSTERS: Developments of not less than five (5) separate contiguous building
lots or sites. Each cluster shall be so designed as to provide that each
building site within the cluster shall contain a location for a single-family
dwelling which meets the standards of the building code.
CONSTRUCTION: The erection, building, enlargement, alteration, repairing or
moving of a structure. This term also applies to the wiring, piping, heating,
cooling, ventilation, refrigeration, sanitation or transportation of fixtures
and equipment therein, as well as to the excavation, filling or paving of land.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, paving, excavation, drilling operations, storage
of equipment or materials, or landscaping.
FUEL BREAKS: An area denoted by a thinning of native vegetation, removal of
dead plant material and/or the replacing of highly flammable vegetation with
fire resistant plants and/or irrigated areas, as indicated in this chapter.
ISLAND: Grouping of native brush and/or trees from five (5) to ten (10) plants
within the group and not to exceed thirty feet (30') at the longest axis
separated from other islands by at least fifty feet (50'). Trees within the
island will have the lower branches pruned up to four feet (4') above the
ground with domestic grasses, domestic flowers or bare ground as the only
allowed ground cover. Island will have a minimum of thirty feet (30') to
nearest inhabitable structures and twenty feet (20') to uninhabitable
structures.
SMALL ISLAND: Grouping of native brush and/or trees from one to five (5) plants
within the group and not to exceed twenty feet (20') at the longest axis
separated from other islands by at least thirty feet (30'). Trees within the
island will have the lower branches pruned up to four feet (4') above the
ground with domestic grasses, domestic flowers or bare ground as the only
allowed ground cover. Small islands will have a minimum of twenty feet (20') to
nearest inhabitable and uninhabitable structures.
URBAN/WILDLAND INTERFACE: Any area where development and heavily forested or
brush land remaining in a relatively natural state meet. Specifically, the land
which meets this criteria is identified in the overlay map in appendix A which
is attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the city office.
(Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-2: LOCATION OF AREA:
The territory included within the urban/wildland interface area to which the
terms of this chapter shall apply, shall be as set forth on the map, identified
as appendix A, which map is appended hereto and by this reference made part of
this chapter. Said map is on file in the city office. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-
1996; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirement: No new building or structure shall commence construction
nor be occupied until a fire safety permit therefor has been issued by the fire
chief stating the conditions under which the building has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This requirement shall not
apply to dwellings outside of the urban/wildland interface area identified in
appendix A which is attached to the ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 96-12-10-
10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Fire Safety Permit: All requests or applications for a building permit
within the urban/wildland interface area shall be deemed to be a concurrent
request for a fire safety permit providing certification by the fire chief that
the provisions of this chapter are being met.
   C.   Conditions: No building permit for sites within the urban/wildland
interface area shall be issued until a fire safety permit is approved and
issued by the fire chief. All construction and use of the premises shall be in
accordance with such conditions as may be attached to the fire safety permit.
(Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996)
9-3-4: ROADS:
   A.   Access: All developments in the urban/wildland interface area shall
have more than one access route which provides simultaneous access for
emergency equipment and civilian evacuation. The design of access routes shall
take into consideration traffic circulation and provide for looping of roads as
required to ensure at least two (2) access points. Looped roads with a single
access are not allowed.
   B.   Specifications: All roads shall conform with the city development code,
subsection
 10-15C-2A of this code, streets and roads. (Ord. 11-7, 8-9-2011, eff. 8-10-
2011)
9-3-5: ADDRESSES:
Notwithstanding provisions within the fire code, each premises must have
approved numbers or addresses, a minimum of five inches (5") in size, placed in
such a position as to be plainly visible and legible from the road fronting the
property. Said numbers shall contrast with their background. Numbers and their
positions shall be suited for visibility in all seasons. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-
10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-6: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Standards: Notwithstanding provisions within the fire code, each fire
hydrant shall be installed in accordance with the recommendations of the city
engineer and fire chief. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Requirement: No combustible materials may be installed, framed or
assembled within the urban/wildland interface area unless within two hundred
fifty feet (250') of a usable fire hydrant connected to the city water supply.
(Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996)
9-3-7: CHIMNEYS AND FLUES:
   A.   Spark Arresters: Notwithstanding provisions within the fire code, every
chimney, flue or vent shall be provided with an approved spark arresting device
consisting of 12-gauge welded or woven wire mesh with openings not exceeding
one-half inch (1/2").
   B.   Clearance: In accordance with provisions within the fire code, chimney
outlets shall be constructed with at least a ten foot (10') clearance from all
vegetation and obstructions. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-8: STRUCTURAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Roof Coverings: Noncombustible roof coverings are required on all new
structures within the urban/wildland interface area. Roof coverings shall be
constructed of UL listed class A or B materials in accordance with the building
code. No wood roof coverings are permitted in the urban/wildland interface.
   B.   Other Construction Features: Vents, overhangs and stilt construction
shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Vents: All vents shall be screened with a corrosion resistant,
noncombustible wire mesh with nominal openings not to exceed one-fourth inch
(1/4").
      2.   Projections: Combustible projections of ten inches (10") or more and
wood decks that have shrubs or a small island within twenty feet (20'), or have
trees or an island within thirty feet (30'), shall be protected as follows:
         a.   Materials specified in subsection C of this section shall be
applied to the underside of the exposed edge or, in the case of a deck, a wall
shall be constructed around its perimeter using the aforementioned materials;
or
         b.   The use of heavy timber in compliance with the provisions of the
building code.
   C.   Construction Materials: Exterior vertical walls shall be constructed of
concrete masonry, brick veneer not less than three inches (3") in thickness,
cement plaster in compliance with the exterior finish requirements of the
building code, or any other noncombustible material (including some types of
siding) meeting the intent of this chapter if such material is approved by the
building official.
   D.   Windows: Glazed openings having three (3) or more trees or shrubs
within thirty feet (30') shall be provided with double pane or safety glass.
Double pane or safety glass shall be utilized in all windows on the down slope
side of a dwelling. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-9: VEGETATIVE CLEARANCE:
   A.   Notification: Applications for building permits shall contain a site
plan with sufficient detail to allow for evaluation of clearances between
vegetative fuels and structures. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996)
   B.   Fuel Breaks: The following minimum clearances shall be maintained,
notwithstanding the fire code: (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Dead Material: All dead vegetative material shall be removed and
maintained clear at least one hundred feet (100') from dwellings and fifty feet
(50') from noninhabited structures.
      2.   Cluster: Each cluster shall have a fuel break which meets the
following specifications:
         a.   Grasses And Spreading Plants: Grasses, spreading plants and
ground cover within fifty feet (50') of dwellings must be of types that are
identified as fire resistant. The fire chief will make information on fire
resistant species available to property owners.
         b.   Shrubs: Shrubs may be used for ornamental plantings against the
walls or foundations of dwellings if such shrubs are served by an automated
sprinkler or other irrigation system approved by the building inspection
official.
         c.   Trees: Trees must be at least twenty feet (20') from structures
(measured at the base), or at least thirty feet (30') from other trees,
nondeciduous shrubs and native brush; exceptions will be islands and small
islands. Islands will have a minimum separation of thirty feet (30') from trees
and structures and small islands will have a minimum separation of twenty feet
(20') from trees and structures. Trees will have the lower branches pruned up
to four feet (4') above the ground and grasses will be maintained by standards
in subsection B2d of this section.
         d.   Native Brush: Native species, such as scrub oak and other
indigenous vegetation, may not be within fifty feet (50') of dwellings unless
such vegetation is grouped into islands not more than thirty feet (30') on
their longest axis. Such islands must be kept free of any dead vegetative
material in accordance with subsection B1 of this section and must be at least
thirty feet (30') from other trees, shrubs or brush unless protected by an
automatic sprinkler system. Islands must be at least thirty feet (30') from
dwellings or ten feet (10') if served by an automatic sprinkler system approved
by the building inspection official. Native grasses must be removed, replaced
with fire resistant species or maintained at a height not to exceed six inches
(6") unless protected by an automatic sprinkler system.
      3.   Public Lands: Clusters on property adjacent to public lands, whether
controlled by the city, the state, the United States government or any other
governmental entity, shall meet the same fuel break requirements as any other
cluster not so located.
   C.   Disposal Of Vegetation: Disposal of flammable vegetation shall be
completed prior to final building inspection. Such vegetation may be disposed
of by chipping, burying or removal to an approved landfill. Burning of such
materials is prohibited. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996)
   D.   Fuel Tanks: Propane or fuel tanks shall have no ground vegetation more
than four inches (4") in height within a ten foot (10') radius, notwithstanding
the fire code. Trees and brush shall be trimmed so as to maintain a clearance
of at least three feet (3') from the sides and top of the tank.
   E.   Fire Hydrants: Vegetation and other obstructions shall be maintained at
no more than four inches (4") in height around a fire hydrant, notwithstanding
the fire code. Clearance shall be provided for three feet (3') on all sides of
the hydrant and must extend to the roadway. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd.
2003 Code)
   F.   Recreational Fires: Open recreational fires shall be located a minimum
of twenty five feet (25') from a structure of combustible material unless
contained in an approved barbecue pit located a minimum of ten feet (10') from
combustible foliage, walls or roofs. An opening in any overhead vegetative
canopy shall be provided to prevent pyrolysis of the foliage.
      1.   Fuel Pile Limitation: Fuel piles for recreational fires shall be no
larger than three feet (3') in diameter and two feet (2') high.
      2.   Extinguishing Devices: A garden hose connected to a water supply or
other approved fire extinguishing device shall be readily available for use at
recreational fires. A person knowledgeable in the use of such fire
extinguishing devices shall supervise the burning material until the fire has
been extinguished. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996)
9-3-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Responsibility: The conditions requiring maintenance outlined in this
chapter shall be maintained by the property owner and/or the applicable
homeowners' association as a condition of maintaining "adequate fire
protection" in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 11-7-1, and
protective agreements, if any, made with the city at the time of annexation.
(Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Nonexclusive Nature: The provisions of this chapter represent minimum
standards. Each owner of property in the urban/wildland interface area is
expected to use reasonable care in mitigating potential fire hazards, whether
or not the potential hazard is enumerated in this chapter. (Ord. 96-12-10-10,
12-10-1996)
   C.   Enforcement Official: Provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by
the city fire chief or his appointed designees. The fire chief is authorized to
recommend alternatives to any of the provisions of this chapter upon
application in writing by the owner, lessee or a duly authorized representative
where there are practical difficulties that prevent carrying out such
provisions; provided, that the spirit and intent of this chapter shall be
maintained, public safety furthered and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modifications and decision of the fire chief shall be
submitted to the fire board of appeals as established by the fire code. (Ord.
96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Inspections: The fire chief or his designee may conduct inspections
to determine compliance with this chapter at the time of building permit
inspections or at the request of the owner of the property. The fire chief or
designee may also conduct inspections based on the request of other property
owner, lessee, city official or employee who has reasonable cause to believe
that a potential fire hazard exists in violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   Notice: The fire chief or his designee will publish periodic notices
to remind residents of the provisions of this chapter and will make available
information on the provisions of this chapter, as well as guidance on fire
resistant vegetation and suitable landscaping.
   D.   Recourse: Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the
exercise of the provisions of this chapter may pursue administrative and legal
remedies in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Procedure: No person may challenge the city's land use decisions
under this chapter in district court until all administrative remedies have
been exhausted.
      2.   Judicial Review: Any person having exhausted all possible
administrative remedies may file a petition for review of the decision with the
district court within thirty (30) days after the local decision is rendered.
      3.   Validity Of Chapter: The courts shall presume that land use
decisions and regulations are valid and determine only whether or not the
decision is arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   E.   Remedies: The city, its officers and employees, the city attorney or
any owner of real estate within the city may, in addition to other remedies
provided by law, institute proceedings to secure injunction, mandamus,
abatement or any other remedies provided by law, including prevention,
enjoinment or removal.
      1.   Injunction: The city need only establish the violation in order to
secure injunction.
      2.   Building Permits: The city, its officers and employees, may enforce
this chapter by withholding building permits, and it shall be unlawful to
erect, construct, alter or change the use of any building or other structure
within the city without approval of such building permit.
         a.   Failure To Obtain Permit: Any architect, lending agency, builder,
contractor or other person doing or performing such work as described in
section E2 of this section shall be deemed guilty of violating this chapter at
least to the same extent or manner as the owner of the premises, or the person
for whom the use is established or for whom such buildings are erected or
altered, and shall be subject to the penalties herein prescribed for a
violation.
         b.   Compliance: The city may not issue a building permit unless the
plans of and for the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or use fully conform to all ordinances then in effect. (Ord. 96-12-
10-10, 12-10-1996)
   F.   Alternative Enforcement: Nothing in this chapter may be construed to
prevent enforcement under the provisions of the current edition of the fire
code as adopted by the state and the city. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd.
2003 Code)
9-3-11: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as a class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each person, firm or corporation found guilty of such
violation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day during
which any violation is committed, continued or permitted by such person,
persons, firm or corporation, and shall be punished as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 96-12-10-10, 12-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
9-4-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: General Provisions
9-4-4: Administration
9-4-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
9-4-6: Penalties For Noncompliance
9-4-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The Legislature of the State of Utah has in
Utah Code Unannotated 10-3-701 delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore the City Council of Elk
Ridge City does or has delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City
does ordain as follows:
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of Elk Ridge City are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and
private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed
to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects:
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public:
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions:
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this ordinance uses the following methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities:
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction:
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 20-04, 3-10-2020)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
 
                              Means flooding occurring on the surface of an
                              alluvial fan or similar landform, which
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING:        originates at the apex and is characterized by
                              high-velocity flows: active processes of erosion,
                              sediment transport, and deposition; and
                              unpredictable flow paths.
                              Means a point on an alluvial fan or similar
APEX:                         landform below which the flow path of the major
                              stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable
                              and alluvial fan flooding can occur.
                              Means a designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a
                              community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with
                              a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
                              chance of flooding to an average depth of one to
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING:     three feet where a clearly defined channel does
                              not exist, where the path of flooding is
                              unpredictable and where velocity flow may be
                              evident. Such flooding is characterized by
                              ponding or sheet flow.
                              Is the land in the floodplain within a community
                              subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance
                              of flooding in any given year. The area may be
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary
                              Map (FHBM). After detailed ratemaking has been
                              completed in preparation for publication of the
                              FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE,
                              AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
BASE FLOOD:                   Means the flood having a one percent (1%) chance
                              of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
                              The water surface elevation of the one percent
                              (1%) annual chance flood event. It is the height
                              in relation to mean sea level expected to be
                              reached by the waters of the base flood at
                              pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE):   and riverine areas. It is also the elevation
                              shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying
                              Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A, AE, AH,
                              A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the
                              water surface elevation resulting from the flood
                              that has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or
                              exceeding that level in any given year.
BASEMENT:                     Any area of the building having its floor sub
                              grade (below ground level) on all sides.
 
 
                                   Means an integral and readily identifiable
CRITICAL FEATURE:                  part of a flood protection system, without
                                   which the flood protection provided by the
                                   entire system would be compromised.
                                   Means any man-made change in improved and
                                   unimproved real estate, including but not
DEVELOPMENT:                       limited to buildings or other structures,
                                   mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
                                   excavation or drilling operations or storage
                                   of equipment or materials.
                                   Means a non-basement building (i) built, in
                                   the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE,
                                   A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the
                                   top of the elevated floor, or in the case of
                                   a building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have
                                   the bottom of the lowest horizontal
                                   structure member of the elevated floor
                                   elevated above the ground level by means of
                                   pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear
                                   walls parallel to the flow of the water and
                                   (ii) adequately anchored so as not to impair
                                   the structural integrity of the building
                                   during a flood of up to the magnitude of the
ELEVATED BUILDING:                 base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE,
                                   A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated
                                   building" also includes a building elevated
                                   by means of fill or solid foundation
                                   perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
                                   facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood
                                   waters. In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or
                                   V, "elevated building" also includes a
                                   building otherwise meeting the definition of
                                   "elevated building," even though the lower
                                   area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls
                                   if the breakaway walls met the standards of
                                   Section 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood
                                   Insurance Program regulations.
                                   For the purposes of determining rates,
                                   structures for which the "start of
                                   construction" commenced before the effective
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:             date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975,
                                   for FIRMs effective before that date.
                                   "Existing construction" may also be referred
                                   to as "existing structures."
                                   Means a manufactured home park or
                                   subdivision for which the construction of
                                   facilities for servicing the lots on which
                                   the manufactured homes are to be affixed
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR (including, at a minimum, the installation
SUBDIVISION:                       of utilities, the construction of streets,
                                   and either final site grading or the pouring
                                   of concrete pads) is completed before the
                                   effective date of the floodplain management
                                   regulations adopted by a community.
 
 
EXPANSION TO Means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
AN EXISTING  servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
MANUFACTURED the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
HOME PARK OR site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
             Means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
FLOOD OR     normally dry land areas from:
FLOODING:    A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
             B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
             source.
FLOOD HAZARD Means an official map of a community, issued by the Administrator, where the
BOUNDARY MAP boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having
(FHBM):      special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD        Means an official map of a community, on which the Federal Emergency Management
INSURANCE    Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk
RATE MAP     premium zones applicable to the community.
(FIRM):
FLOOD        Is the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The
INSURANCE    report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood, as
STUDY:       well as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map.
             Means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
FLOOD        adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate
PROOFING:    or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
             contents.
 
 
                                   Means those physical structural works for
                                   which funds have been authorized,
                                   appropriated, and expended and which have
                                   been constructed specifically to modify
                                   flooding in order to reduce the extent of
                                   the areas within a community subject to a
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM:           "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
                                   depths of associated flooding. Such a system
                                   typically includes hurricane tidal barriers,
                                   dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These
                                   specialized flood modifying works are those
                                   constructed in conformance with sound
                                   engineering standards.
                                   Means any land area susceptible to being
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA:    inundated by water from any source (see
                                   definition of flooding).
                                   Means the operation of an overall program of
                                   corrective and preventive measures for
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT:             reducing flood damage, including but not
                                   limited to emergency preparedness plans,
                                   flood control works and floodplain
                                   management regulations.
                                   Means zoning ordinances, subdivision
                                   regulations, building codes, health
                                   regulations, special purpose ordinances
                                   (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
                                   other applications of police power. The term
                                   describes such state or local regulations,
                                   in any combination thereof, which provide
                                   standards for the purpose of flood damage
                                   prevention and reduction.
                                   Means the channel of a river or other
                                   watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY):    must be reserved in order to discharge the
                                   base flood without cumulatively increasing
                                   the water surface elevation more than a
                                   designated height.
                                   Means a use which cannot perform its
                                   intended purpose unless it is located or
                                   carried out in close proximity to water. The
                                   term includes only docking facilities, port
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE:        facilities that are necessary for the
                                   loading and unloading of cargo or
                                   passengers, and ship building and ship
                                   repair facilities, but does not include
                                   long-term storage or related manufacturing
                                   facilities.
                                   Means the highest natural elevation of the
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE             ground surface prior to construction next to
                                   the proposed walls of a structure.
 
 
           Means any structure that is:
           A. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
           maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
           Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
           the National Register;
           B. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
           contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
           district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC   historic district;
STRUCTURE: C. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
           historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of
           Interior; or
           D. Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in communities with
           historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
              1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
           Interior or;
              2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
           programs.
           Means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
LEVEE:     constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or
           divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LEVEE      Means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and
SYSTEM:    associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed
           and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
           Means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
LOWEST     unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking or vehicles,
FLOOR:     building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered
           a building's
 
 
                                       lowest floor; provided that such
                                       enclosure is not built so as to render
                                       the structure in violation of the
                                      applicable non-elevation design
                                       requirement of Section 60.3 of the
                                       National Flood Insurance Program
                                       regulations.
                                       Means a structure transportable in one
                                       or more sections, which is built on a
                                       permanent chassis and is designed for
MANUFACTURED HOME:                     use with or without a permanent
                                       foundation when connected to the
                                       required utilities. The term
                                       "manufactured home" does not include a
                                       "recreational vehicle".
                                       Means a parcel (or contiguous parcels)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: of land divided into two (2) or more
                                       manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
                                       Means, for purposes of the National
                                       Flood Insurance Program, the National
MEAN SEA LEVEL:                        Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929
                                       or other datum, to which base flood
                                       elevations shown on a community's Flood
                                       Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
                                       Means, for the purpose of determining
                                       insurance rates, structures for which
                                       the "start of construction" commenced on
                                       or after the effective date of an
                                       initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974,
                                       whichever is later, and includes any
                                       subsequent improvements to such
NEW CONSTRUCTION:                      structures. For floodplain management
                                       purposes, "new construction" means
                                       structures for which the "start of
                                       construction" commenced on or after the
                                       effective date of a floodplain
                                       management regulation adopted by a
                                       community and includes any subsequent
                                       improvements to such structures.
                                       Means a manufactured home park or
                                       subdivision for which the construction
                                       of facilities for servicing the lots on
                                       which the manufactured homes are to be
                                       affixed (including at a minimum, the
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR          installation of utilities, the
SUBDIVISION:                           construction of streets, and either
                                       final site grading or the pouring of
                                       concrete pads) is completed on or after
                                       the effective date of floodplain
                                       management regulations adopted by a
                                       community.
 
 
                       Means a vehicle which is (i) built on a single chassis;
                       (ii) 400 square feet or less when measured at the
                       largest horizontal projections; (iii) designed to be
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:  self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
                       truck; and (iv) designed primarily not for use as a
                       permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for
                       recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
                       For other than new construction or substantial
                       improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
                       (Pub. L. 97-348), includes substantial improvement and
                       means the date the building permit was issued, provided
                       the actual start of construction, repair,
                       reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
                       other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180)
                       days of the permit date. The actual start means either
                       the first placement of permanent construction of a
                       structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
                       footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
                       columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
START OF CONSTRUCTION: the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
                       Permanent construction does not include land prep
                       aeration, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor
                       does it include the installation of streets and/or
                       walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement,
                       footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
                       temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on
                       the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
                       sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the
                       main structure. For a substantial improvement, the
                       actual start of construction means the first alteration
                       of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
                       a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
                       external dimensions of the building.
                       Means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or
STRUCTURE:             liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground,
                       as well as a manufactured home.
                       Means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
                       whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE:    before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50
                       percent of the market value of the structure before the
                       damage occurred.
 
 
                         Means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
                         other improvement of a structure, the cost of which
                         equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
                         value of the structure before "start of construction"
                         of the improvement. This includes structures which
                         have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the
                         actual repair work performed. The term does not,
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: however, include either:
                         A. Any project for improvement of a structure to
                         correct existing violations of state or local health,
                         sanitary, or safety code specifications, which have
                         been identified by the local code enforcement official
                         and which are the minimum necessary conditions or
                         B. Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided
                         that the alteration will not preclude the structure's
                         continued designation as a "historic structure."
                         A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of
                         this ordinance when specific enforcement would result
                         in unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore,
VARIANCE:                permits construction or development in a manner
                         otherwise prohibited by this ordinance. (For full
                         requirements see Section 60.6 of the National Flood
                         Insurance Program regulations.)
                         Means the failure of a structure or other development
                         to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain
                         management regulations. A structure or other
                         development without the elevation certificate, other
VIOLATION:               certifications, or other evidence of compliance
                         required in Section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
                         (3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in
                         violation until such time as that documentation is
                         provided.
                         Means the height, in relation to the National Geodetic
                         Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: specified), of floods of various magnitudes and
                         frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
                         areas.
 
(Ord. 20-04, 3-10-2020)
9-4-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of Elk Ridge City.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard:
      1.   Since areas of special flood hazard have not been identified, water
surface elevations have not been provided, nor has sufficient data identifying
the floodway been provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA),
the community shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize data available from
other federal, state or other sources.
      2.   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled,
The Flood Insurance Study for Utah County, dated June, 19, 2020 and
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM
and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   C.   Establishment Of Development Permit: A Development Permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by man-
made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas
of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made there under.
   H.   Severability: If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance
is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the remainder of this
chapter shall not be affected.
(Ord. 20-04, 3-10-2020)
9-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator: The City Recorder is
hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: Duties and
responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed construction
or other development, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   C.   Permit Procedures:
      1.   Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes,and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
      Additionally, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be flood proofed;
         c.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential flood proofed structure shall meet the flood
proofing criteria of Article 5, Section B2.;
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         e.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
Article 4, Section B1.
      2.   Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
   D.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      3.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
      5.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      6.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section C of this section have
been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      7.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (Article 1, Section C).
      8.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      9.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      10.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon, (i) showing a good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
         c.   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      11.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that (i) the criteria outlined in Article
4, Section D1.-(9) are met, and (ii) the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety.
(Ord. 20-04, 3-10-2020)
9-4-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements.
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with Article 1, Sections B, C,
and D of this chapter.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development
Permit requirements of section
9-4-3C; section
9-4-4C; and the provisions of this section
9-4-5.
      3.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 20-04, 3-10-2020)
9-4-6: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or imprisoned for not more than
ninety (90) days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the Elk Ridge City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 20-04, 3-10-2020)
TITLE 10
DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTENT AND PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Intent And Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be entitled and known as the DEVELOPMENT CODE OF ELK RIDGE,
UTAH, and may be so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
It is the intent and purpose of the city council to avail itself of the powers
granted under Utah Code Annotated sections 10-9-101 et seq., 10-2-401 et seq.,
and 57-8-35, as amended, and to do so in a manner that will:
   A.   Provide for the health, safety and welfare of the citizens.
   B.   Promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, convenience and aesthetics of the municipality and its present
inhabitants and businesses.
   C.   Protect the tax base, secure economy in governmental expenditures,
foster agricultural and other industries.
   D.   Protect both urban and nonurban development and protect property
values. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the development code, the provisions thereof shall
be held to be the minimum requirements needed to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the
present and future inhabitants of the city.
Where the provisions of the development code impose a greater restriction than
is required by any ordinance, code, regulation, standard or other provisions of
law or by any easement, covenant or private agreement, the provisions of the
development code shall govern. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Construction Of Words
10-2-2: Definitions Enumerated
10-2-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Words in the present tense include the future and the future includes the
present; the singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular;
the word "lot" includes the word tract or parcel of land; the term "erected"
means constructed, altered, moved or repaired; the words "shall" and "must" are
always mandatory. The term "district" is synonymous with the term zone; the
term "ordinance" is synonymous with the term Code. Words not included herein,
but which are defined in the Building Code, shall be construed as defined
therein. (Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS ENUMERATED:
For the purposes of this Development Code, certain words and terms are defined
as hereinafter set forth:
ADA: Any term, condition or improvement required to be included or constructed
within a project pursuant to the provisions of the Americans With Disabilities
Act.
ACCESSORY APARTMENTS: A portion of a single-family dwelling (primary dwelling
unit), containing separate cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities, and
occupied or intended for occupancy as a separate but subordinate dwelling unit.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building located on a lot or parcel of land, the use of
which is appropriate, subordinate and customarily incidental to that of the
main building.
ADULT DAYCARE FACILITY: Any building or structure furnishing care, supervision,
and guidance for three (3) or more adults unaccompanied by guardians for
periods of less than twenty four (24) hours per day.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A residential facility, licensed by the State of
Utah, with a homelike setting that provides an array of coordinated support
personnel and healthcare services, available twenty four (24) hours per day, to
residents who have been assessed under the Utah Department of Health or the
Utah Department of Human Services rules to need any of these services. Each
resident shall have a service plan based on the assessment, which may include:
   A.   Specified services of intermediate nursing care;
   B.   Administration of medication;
   C.   Support services promoting resident's independence and self-
sufficiency. Such a facility does not include adult daycare provided in
conjunction with a residential facility for elderly persons or a residential
facility for persons with a disability.
BOARDER: A person living in a rented room in a boarding house. The boarding
house operator or member of his or her immediate family, who resides on the
premises with the operator, shall not be considered to be a boarder.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building or a portion thereof operated by a person residing
on the premises where, for compensation, rooms are rented together with meals
for not more than fifteen (15) boarders who generally do not directly utilize
kitchen facilities. The work shall include compensation in money, services, or
other things of value. A boarding house does not include:
   A.   A residential facility for the elderly or persons with a disability; or
   B.   Any nonresidential facility, such as a rehabilitation/treatment
facility, where the primary purpose of the facility is to deliver
rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, medical, protective or other similar
services to the occupants thereof.
BUILDABLE AREA: A lot or portion thereof possessing all of the following
physical characteristics:
   A.   The area contains no territory having a natural slope of thirty percent
(30%) or greater and meets all conditions as provided in section
10-12-34 of this title.
   B.   The area contains no territory which is located in any identified
floodplain or within any recognized inundation zone, mudflow zone or zone of
deformation, or lands subject to earth slippage, landslide or rockfall.
   C.   The engineering properties of the soil provide adequate structural
support for the intended use.
   D.   The area does not possess any other recognized natural condition which
renders it unsafe for building purposes.
   E.   The area is within the building setback envelope as determined in
accordance with the setback provisions of the zone.
   F.   The area is readily capable of vehicular access from the adjacent
public street over a driveway having a slope of not more than twelve percent
(12%).
BUILDING: A permanently located structure, including, but not limited to,
dwelling units, designed, intended or used for occupancy by any person or for
storage of property of any kind.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: The area circumscribed within the outside perimeter of a
proposed building, as determined along the outside edge of the foundation wall.
CHILDCARE CENTER: A dwelling unit wherein ordinary care and supervision are
provided during customary daytime periods by the resident family to nonrelated
persons.
COMMON AREA: An area designated to serve two (2) or more dwelling units in
separate ownership with convenient access to the area.
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: A facility licensed by or contracted by the
State of Utah to provide temporary occupancy for previously incarcerated
persons which assists such persons in making a transition from a correctional
institution environment to independent living. Such facility may also provide
ancillary, temporary occupancy for individuals placed as part of, or in lieu of
confinement rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional institution.
CONDOMINIUM: The ownership of a single unit in a multi-unit project, together
with an undivided interest in common in the common areas and facilities of the
property.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A development project whereby two (2) or more units,
together with an undivided interest in the common area or facility, are
separately offered or proposed to be offered for sale. This definition shall
apply to existing or proposed apartments, commercial or industrial buildings or
structures. Condominium project shall also mean the property when the context
so requires.
CORRAL: A fence or other barrier used for the confinement of livestock for
which the primary source of food is provided from other than grazing of grass
or herbage growing on the site.
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: A prison, jail, juvenile detention facility or juvenile
security facility.
CUSTOMARY RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure constructed on the same
zoning lot as a dwelling and which is intended for the incidental and exclusive
use of the residents of said dwelling, including, but not limited to, detached
garages, carports, swimming pools, tennis courts, greenhouses, storage
buildings and satellite dishes.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per acre of land.
DERELICT PARCEL: A residual parcel of land created or proposed to be created as
part of a proposed subdivision design of a larger tract having insufficient
area or dimension or possessing other conditions which prohibit its
qualification as a zoning lot within the zone.
DESIGNATED CITY STREET: A Federal or State highway or street within the City
owned by the City and intended for automobile travel by the public.
DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of
such an impairment, or being regarded as having such an impairment.
"Disability" does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any
Federally controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of the Controlled
Substances Act, 21 USC 802, or as defined under title 58, chapter 37, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as amended. As used in this definition:
   A.   "Physical or mental impairment" includes:
      1.   Any psychological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological, musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular, reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
      2.   Any mental or physiological disorder, such as mental retardation,
organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
disabilities; or
      3.   Such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and
hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy,
multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV), mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction (other than
addiction caused by current, illegal use of controlled substances) and
alcoholism.
   B.   "Major life activities" means functions such as caring for oneself,
performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing,
learning and working.
   C.   "Having a record of such an impairment" means has a history of, or has
been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that
substantially limits one or more major life activities.
   D.   "Regarded as having such an impairment" means:
      1.   Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially
limit one or more major life activities but is treated by another person as
having such a limitation; or
      2.   Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward
such impairment; or
      3.   Has none of the impairments defined in subsection A of this
definition but is treated by another person as having such an impairment.
DOCUMENTATION-DECLARATION: The legal instruments required under the provisions
of this Development Code and applicable State law for approval of a planned
development or subdivision.
DOMESTIC STAFF: Persons employed or residing on the premises of a dwelling or
other residential facility to perform domestic services or to assist residents
in performing major life activities.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof containing one or more dwelling units
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families.
DWELLING, CARETAKER'S: A dwelling which is occupied by an individual or family
whose livelihood is derived primarily from watching or taking care of a farm,
industry or other use which is located on the same premises as the dwelling.
DWELLING, CONVENTIONAL CONSTRUCTION: A dwelling which is constructed in
compliance with the provisions of the Building Code, Mechanical Code,
Electrical Code and Plumbing Code, as adopted by the State or City.
DWELLING, FACTORY BUILT: A dwelling that is wholly or in substantial part made,
fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or
assembly and installation on a building site. For purposes of this Development
Code, the term factory built dwelling consists of three (3) types: modular
housing, manufactured housing and mobile homes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to include three (3)
or more dwelling units, each to be occupied by one family.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building arranged or designed to include
only one dwelling unit occupied by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY/DUPLEX: A building arranged or designed to include two (2)
dwelling units, each to be occupied by one family.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a building or portion thereof designed,
occupied or intended as a residence for a family with complete and independent
facilities for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, provided
within the dwelling unit.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: A public elementary or secondary school, charter
school, seminary, parochial school or private education institution having a
curriculum similar to that ordinarily provided in grades 1 through 12 in a
public school system. The term educational institution for the purpose of this
title does not include post-high school educational facilities or educational
facilities which include residential facilities for its students.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION WITH HOUSING: A public or private educational
institution with on site residential facilities for its students and/or staff.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person who is sixty (60) years or older, who desires or needs
to live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable of
living independently.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, living together in a single dwelling unit and maintaining a common
household. A family may include four (4), but not more than four (4),
nonrelated persons living with the residing family. The term "family" shall not
be construed to mean a group of nonrelated individuals, a fraternity, club or
institutional group. "Family" does not exclude the care of foster children.
FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING: A fence which permits vision through less than twenty
percent (20%) of any square foot area.
FINAL PLAT; RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A plat of survey of land within a subdivision
or large scale development, which has been prepared in accordance with
applicable City standards and/or State Statutes for the purposes of recording
in the Office of the County Recorder.
GARAGE: A structure situated on a residential lot, either attached to a
dwelling or freestanding, enclosed on all sides by walls or doors, which is
designed and intended for the shelter of automobiles.
GENERAL PLAN (MASTER PLAN): A coordinated plan which has been prepared and
adopted for the purpose of guiding development, including, but not limited to,
a plan or plans of land use, resources, circulation, housing, and public
facilities and grounds.
GRADE OF STREETS AND DRIVEWAYS: The ratio of vertical distance along such a
street or driveway expressed in either percentage or degree.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation conducted within a dwelling and carried on by
persons residing in the dwelling.
HOMELESS SHELTER: Charitable lodging or sleeping rooms provided on a daily or
other temporary basis to persons lacking other safe, sanitary or affordable
shelter. May also include a kitchen and cafeteria.
HOSPITAL: An institution licensed by the State of Utah which provides
diagnostic, therapeutic, and rehabilitative services to individuals on both an
inpatient and outpatient basis by or under the supervision of one or more
physicians. A medical clinic or professional office which offers any inpatient
or overnight care, or operates on a twenty four (24) hour basis shall be
considered to be a hospital. A hospital may include necessary support service
facilities such as laboratories, outpatient units and training and central
services, together with staff offices necessary to operate the hospital.
HOTEL: A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general
public and which may provide additional services such as restaurants, meeting
rooms, entertainment and recreational facilities.
KENNEL: Where permitted by the City zoning ordinance, kennels must be approved
by the Planning Commission and can be used for any purpose, including boarding,
breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for fee, or selling.
LANDSCAPING: The use and integration of a combination of planted trees, shrubs,
vines, ground covers, lawns, rocks, foundations, pools, artwork, screens,
walls, fences, benches or surfaced walkways set into an aesthetically pleasing
arrangement as determined by the Planning Commission or their authorized
representatives. However, the use of structures or surfaced walkways alone, in
the absence of planted trees, lawns, etc., shall not meet the requirements of
this Development Code.
LIVESTOCK ANIMALS: Where permitted by the City zoning ordinance, livestock
animals are allowed based on the land area of the lot and land provided for the
livestock management area. The number of animals allowed on a parcel by type of
animal is detailed in section
10-18-5 of this title.
LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT AREA: All portions of a lot devoted exclusively to the
care and keeping of livestock, including, but not limited to, barns, sheds,
pens, coops, corrals and pastures, but not including any portion of a parcel
devoted to a dwelling, yard, garden, parking area or unutilized open area.
LIVING AREA: Those portions of dwellings having a headroom height of not less
than seven feet (7') and used for customary living activities. For purposes of
this Development Code, the term "living area" shall not include those portions
of a dwelling intended for parking of vehicles, unenclosed porches, storage
rooms having only outside access and similar areas.
LOT: A. An independently described parcel of land as shown on the records of
the County Recorder; or
   B.   Two (2) or more contiguous parcels each of which qualify under
subsection A of this definition and for which a declaration of zoning lot has
been approved and filed in the Office of the County Recorder.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets
where the interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one
hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: A. Front:
      1.   The front boundary line of a lot bordering on the street or in the
case of a flag lot, the boundary line located closest to and approximately
parallel to the street upon which the driveway portion abuts.
      2.   In the instance of a corner lot, the front lot line shall be the lot
line adjacent to the street having the lowest level of service or determined to
have the least amount of potential traffic and subject to section
10-15C-4 of this title.
   B.   Rear: A lot line which is opposite and most distance from the front lot
line. In the case of an irregular, triangular or gore shaped lot, the rear lot
line shall be a line within the lot parallel to and at the maximum distance
from the front lot line, having a length of at least ten feet (10').
   C.   Side: Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
LOT, UNIMPROVED RESIDUAL: See section
10-15F-10 of this title.
MAIN BUILDING: One or more of the principal buildings upon a lot. Garages,
carports and other buildings which are attached to a dwelling or other main
building or which are situated closer to the main building than the minimum
distance specified in the zone requirements shall be considered as a part of
the main building.
MAIN FLOOR LIVING AREA: The area of a dwelling, measured from the outside wall
line on a horizontal plane, which when viewed from above, contains living area
on one or more floors or levels, which floors or levels are located entirely
above the finished ground level surrounding the dwelling.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the Federal Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974 (HUD Code), in one or more sections, which, in the
traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width, or forty (40) body
feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is four hundred (400) or more
square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used
as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems. All manufactured homes constructed on or after June 15,
1976, shall be identifiable by the manufacturer's data plate bearing the date
the unit was manufactured and a HUD label attached to the exterior of the home
certifying the home was manufactured to HUD standards.
MINOR UTILITY TRANSMISSION PROJECT: The construction of transmission and
distribution facilities for electric power, telephone, gas and oil, water,
cable TV, microwave and similar commodities for the purpose of supplying such
services or commodities primarily to structures in the immediate vicinity.
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT: Developments which combine a combination of development
types within a single development project or phase. Such combinations are
typically of one or more of the following characteristics:
   A.   Residential Only Mixtures: A mixture of residential uses within a
single project or phase, such as single-family detached dwelling units combined
with single-family attached and/or multiple-family dwelling units.
   B.   Residential And Commercial Mixtures: A mixture of any residential use
and commercial uses within a single development project or phase.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit built prior to June 15,
1976, in accordance with a State Mobile Home Code which existed prior to the
Federal Manufactured Housing and Safety Standards Act (HUD Code).
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or more
mobile homes.
MODULAR HOUSING: A factory built dwelling constructed in accordance with the
provisions of the Building Code.
NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD: A parcel of land which does not conform to the
minimum area and/or width requirements for the zone in which it is located, but
which was legally created and was shown on the records of the County Recorder
as a conforming lot of record prior to the effective date of the applicable
controlling provisions. Substandard lots in illegal subdivisions shall not be
considered as nonconforming lots of record.
NONCONFORMING USE OR BUILDING: A building or structure, or portion thereof, or
use of a building or land existing at the time of the passage hereof, which
does not conform to the zoning regulations as set forth herein but which
legally existed prior to the effective date of the now controlling provision.
NONRESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY: A facility wherein no persons will be housed
on an overnight basis, and provides services including rehabilitation,
treatment, counseling, or assessment and evaluation services related to
delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, sexual offenders, sexual abuse,
or mental health. Associated educational services may also be provided to
juvenile occupants.
NURSING HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME, AND REST HOME: An intermediate care/nursing
facility or a skilled nursing facility licensed by the State of Utah, for the
care of individuals who, due to illness, advanced age, disability, or
impairment require assistance and/or supervision on a twenty four (24) hour per
day basis. Such a facility does not include an adult daycare facility or adult
daycare provided in conjunction with residential facilities for elderly persons
or a residential facility for persons with a disability.
OFF SITE: Of or pertaining to land, area or facilities not located within the
boundaries of a final plat of a planned development or subdivision.
OFF STREET PARKING: An area adjoining a building providing for the parking of
automobiles which does not include a public street, but has convenient access
to it.
PASTURE: An area confined by wire, wood or other fence structure used for the
confinement of livestock for which the primary source of food is obtained from
the grazing of grass or herbage growing on the site.
PENINSULA: An area of land as defined by property lines which contains an
irregular extension and where said extension has an opening width, as
determined to be the distance measured across the opening of the extension in
as close to a perpendicular manner as possible, which is less than twenty
percent (20%) of the total distance of circumference as measured along the
property boundaries excluding the opening width.
PROTECTIVE HOUSING FACILITY: A facility operated, licensed, or contracted by a
governmental entity, or operated by a charitable, nonprofit organization, where
for no compensation, temporary, protective housing is provided to:
   A.   Abused or neglected children awaiting placement of foster care; or
   B.   Pregnant or parenting teens; or
   C.   Victims of sexual abuse; or
   D.   Victims of domestic abuse.
PUBLIC BUILDING: For purposes of this title only, a public building is a
building owned and operated, or owned and intended to be operated by the City,
a public agency of the United States of America, the State of Utah, or any of
its political subdivisions. The use of a public building, with immunity, is
nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than
as a public building with immunity. A public building referred to as with
immunity under the provisions of this title includes:
   A.   Properties owned by the State of Utah or the United States government
which are outside of the jurisdiction of the City zoning authority as provided
under title 10, chapter 9a, section 304, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended;
and
   B.   The ownership or use of a building which is immune from the City zoning
authority under the supremacy clause of the United States Constitution.
PUBLIC SCHOOL: One or more buildings, together with the appurtenant yards,
incidental structures, parking areas, etc., operated by the school district or
other public agency for educational purposes.
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: A change in any rule, policy, practice, or service
necessary to afford a person with a disability equal opportunity to use and
enjoy a dwelling. As used in this definition:
   A.   "Reasonable" means a requested accommodation that will not undermine
the legitimate purpose of existing zoning regulations, notwithstanding the
benefit that the accommodation would provide to a person with a disability.
   B.   "Necessary" means the applicant must show that, but for the
accommodation, one or more persons with a disability likely will be denied an
equal opportunity to enjoy the housing of their choice.
   C.   "Equal opportunity" means achieving equal results as between a person
with a disability and a nondisabled person.
RECREATION VEHICLE: A vehicle used, designed or maintained primarily as a
temporary dwelling for travel, vacation or recreation purposes, having a width
of not more than eight feet (8') and length of not more than forty feet (40'),
and which can be driven or pulled upon the highways without a special permit.
RECREATION VEHICLE COURT: An area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2)
or more recreation vehicles or camper units for a short period of time (less
than 30 days).
REHABILITATION/TREATMENT FACILITY: A facility licensed or contracted by the
State of Utah to provide temporary occupancy and supervision of individuals
(adults and/or juveniles) in order to provide rehabilitation, treatment or
counseling services. Without limitation, such services may include
rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, or assessment and evaluation services
related to delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, sexual offenders,
sexual abuse, or mental health. Associated educational services may also be
provided to juvenile occupants.
RELATED: Related by blood, marriage or adoption within the definition of
"family" means a father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother,
uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in- law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or
grandchild, to include the half as well as the whole blood.
RESIDENCE, RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: Any building or portion thereof where an
individual is actually living at a given point and time and intends to remain,
and not a place of temporary sojourn or transient visit.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS: A dwelling unit that is occupied on a
twenty four (24) hour per day basis by eight (8) or fewer elderly persons in a
family type arrangement. A residential facility for elderly persons shall not
include any of the following:
   A.   A facility which is operated as a business; provided that such facility
may not be considered to be operated as a business solely because a fee is
charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of preparation and
maintenance of the facility;
   B.   A facility where persons being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse are
placed; a facility where placement is not on a strictly voluntary basis or
where placement is part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or
treatment in a correctional institution; or a facility which is a healthcare
facility as defined by title 26, chapter 21, section 2, Utah Code Annotated,
1953, as amended; or
   C.   A facility which is a residential facility for persons with a
disability.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY: A dwelling unit or other
place in which more than one person with a disability resides and, if required
by State law, is licensed or certified by:
   A.   The Utah Department of Human Services under title 62A, chapter 2, of
the Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, Licensure of Programs and
Facilities; or
   B.   The Department of Health under title 26, chapter 21, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as amended, Health Care Facilities Licensing and Inspection
Act.
RETAINER STRIP: A parcel of land less than the minimum depth required for a
building lot bordering the boundary of a subdivision and a street within the
subdivision for the purpose of controlling the access of the property owners
abutting the subdivision to the street.
RETIREMENT HOME: A residential facility designated, occupied, and intended for
residents fifty (50) years of age or older where common facilities for cooking
and dining are available to all residents and independent facilities are
provided for living, sleeping and sanitation.
SETBACK: The shortest distance between the property line and the building, or
part thereof, as measured on a horizontal plane from the property line to the
nearest point of the foundation.
SHELTERED WORKSHOP: An on site supervised educational or vocational training
facility for persons with a disability and does not provide any residential
facilities.
SIGN: Any device designed and intended to bring the subject thereof to the
attention of the public; provided, however, that the following shall not be
included in the application of regulations relating to signs:
   A.   Flags or insignia of any government, except when displayed in
connection with a commercial promotion.
   B.   Legal notices and signs used for regulation, identification and
informational purposes erected by a governmental body.
   C.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property but
bearing no advertising matter.
   D.   Political campaign signs.
SIGN, ACCESSORY: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted on the premises.
SIGN, NONACCESSORY BILLBOARD: A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment which is conducted, sold or offered at a
location other than the premises.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground, but not including a tent or vehicle.
SUBDIVISION: A. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
      1.   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for all residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be
used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable
zoning ordinance;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not result in a violation of applicable
zoning ordinances; or
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one legal
description encompassing all such parcels of property.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision" under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the Municipality's subdivision ordinance.
TRADE OR VOCATIONAL SCHOOL: A post-high school educational or vocational
training facility.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY: A facility owned, operated or contracted by a
governmental entity or a charitable, not for profit organization, where, for no
compensation, temporary housing (usually 3 to 24 months, but in no event less
than 30 days) is provided to homeless persons, while they obtain work, job
skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize their circumstances. A
transitional housing facility shall not include:
   A.   A shelter for the homeless; or
   B.   A dwelling unit provided to a family for the exclusive use as part of a
transitional housing program, for more than thirty (30) days; or
   C.   A residential facility for persons with a disability.
USE, LAND: Any purpose for which a lot, building or other structure or a tract
of land may be designated, arranged, intended, maintained or occupied; or any
activity, occupation, business or operation carried on or intended to be
carried on in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
   A.   Permitted: A use of land that is expressly permitted within a specific
zone by the Development Code, without the need for special administrative
review and approval, upon satisfaction of the standards and requirements of
this title.
   B.   Conditional: A land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impacts on the Municipality, surrounding neighbors or adjacent land
uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain
conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts
within a specific zone by the Development Code.
   C.   Not Permitted: A land use that is either listed as a nonpermitted use
or is not listed as a permitted use within a specific zone by the Development
Code. The use does not enjoy a legal conforming or legal nonconforming status,
as defined in this title.
YARD: Any space on a lot other than a court, which is open and unobstructed
from the ground to the sky.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, between the
front lot line and the closest part of the main building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, between the rear
lot line and the closest part of the main building.
YARD, REQUIRED: The minimum yard area located around buildings as established
by the applicable setback requirements of this Development Code.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line,
between the side lot line and the closest part of the main building.
ZONING LOT: A lot or parcel of land which:
   A.   Meets all area (lot size), frontage (width), setback (yard), and other
zoning requirements applicable within the zone in which it is located;
   B.   Abuts upon and has direct access to a designated City street which
street has been: 1) dedicated to the City; or 2) accepted by the City Council
as an approved City street; and 3) has an established right-of-way width not
less than required for the class of street, as shown on the major street plan;
   C.   Is served by the minimum level of improvements required for issuance of
a building permit or for which the construction of the minimum level of
improvements is secured through the posting of a performance guarantee; and
   D.   Is shown as a separate lot on the final plat of subdivision or similar
development which has been approved in accordance with the applicable
ordinance, or is legally exempted from compliance with said ordinance. A parcel
which is part of an unapproved or illegal subdivision shall not qualify as a
zoning lot.
(Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017; amd. Ord. 20-01, 1-14-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Enforcement Officer
10-3-2: Powers And Duties Of Zoning Administrator
10-3-3: Zoning Clearance Required
10-3-4: Buildings To Be On Zoning Lot
10-3-5: Building Permit To Comply With Development Code
10-3-6: Construction And Use To Comply With Permit
10-3-7: Permits Granted Prior To Development Code
10-3-8: Licenses To Comply With Development Code
10-3-9: Responsibility For Violation
10-3-10: Utility Installation Unlawful Without Building Permit
10-3-11: Injured Person May Recover Damages; Nonliability Of City
10-3-12: Amendments
10-3-13: Conflicting Provisions
10-3-14: Violations
10-3-15: Remedies For Violation; Penalty
10-3-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
There is hereby created the office of zoning administrator. The mayor, with the
advice and consent of the city council, shall appoint one or more persons to
act as zoning administrator. Said administrator is hereby charged with the
administration and enforcement of the development code and such other duties as
are set forth below. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to:
   A.   Review all applications for building permit and zoning approvals and to
issue zone clearance permits for those projects and uses found to be in
compliance with the development code.
   B.   Refuse to issue any zone clearance permit unless the plans of and for
the proposed erection, construction or use fully conform to all zoning
regulations in effect within the city.
   C.   Review all applications for site plan review and conditional use
permits, and inform the appropriate approval authority of the findings of that
review.
   D.   Enforce the provisions of the zoning regulations and the terms of any
site plan or conditional use permit which shall have been approved and,
wherever violations occur, to consult with the city attorney, to issue a notice
to comply or other appropriate action, to prepare exhibits, testimony and other
data which may be needed in such enforcement. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
   E.   Render administrative decisions on those certain routine and
uncontested matters as are delegated to him by the city council or appeal
authority and pursuant to established guidelines relating thereto. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
10-3-3: ZONING CLEARANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   A zone clearance permit shall be required prior to the issuance of any
building permit. No zone clearance or building permit shall be issued within
the city until the application therefor has been reviewed and the proposed use
or structure found to be in compliance with all applicable provisions of the
development code.
   B.   Where the use is one which requires the prior approval of a site plan,
special exception or conditional use permit, no zone clearance or building
permit shall be issued until such time as the required approval shall have been
granted by the appropriate approval body. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-4: BUILDINGS TO BE ON ZONING LOT:
No building permit authorizing the use of land or the construction or
alteration or moving of a building or structure on a lot shall be issued unless
the parcel of land upon which the use is to be conducted or the building
constructed, altered or moved shall qualify as a "zoning lot", as defined in
section
10-2-2 of this title. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-5: BUILDING PERMIT TO COMPLY WITH DEVELOPMENT CODE:
From the effective date hereof, no building permit shall be granted for the
construction or alteration of any building or structure or for the moving of a
building or structure onto a lot or for the change of use of any land, building
or structure if such construction, alteration, moving or change of use would be
a violation of any of the provisions of this development code, nor shall any
municipal service or electric utilities be installed to serve the premises if
such use would be a violation of this development code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-
1997)
10-3-6: CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO COMPLY WITH PERMIT:
Permits issued on the basis of plans and specifications approved by the zoning
administrator authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in
such approved application. Any use, arrangement or construction at variance
with that authorized shall be deemed to be a violation of this development
code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-7: PERMITS GRANTED PRIOR TO DEVELOPMENT CODE:
Authorization granted by the city to construct a building or structure, or to
change the use of land, shall not be denied or abridged in the event that
construction has taken place thereon to the extent of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or more in replaceable value by the date on which this development
code or an amendment thereto shall become effective; provided, however, that
such authorization to construct a building or structure shall be denied if
construction would not have complied with all applicable laws and ordinances
existing prior to the effective date hereof, or amendment. Replaceable value
shall be construed to mean the expenditure necessary to duplicate the material
and labor at market prices. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-8: LICENSES TO COMPLY WITH DEVELOPMENT CODE:
No business or similar license shall be issued which would not be in
conformance with the provisions of this development code. Any permit so issued
shall be null and void. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATION:
It shall be the responsibility of the owner and any and all builders,
contractors, subcontractors, real estate agents and any other persons having to
do with the establishment of any use of land or the erection, altering or
relocation of any building to make sure that a proper permit has been obtained
before work is begun. Any person doing any work on a project for which a proper
permit has not been obtained shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
development code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-10: UTILITY INSTALLATION UNLAWFUL WITHOUT BUILDING PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install or allow to
be installed, any sewer or water service lines, or any gas, telephone or
electric utility connection to serve the premises before a building permit has
been properly approved and issued by the zoning administrator, and any person
who shall install or authorize the installation of any such line or connection
shall be in violation of this development code. Each day such violation is
continued shall be considered as a separate offense. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-11: INJURED PERSON MAY RECOVER DAMAGES; NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
Any person purchasing a lot or parcel or land who may be injured as the
consequence of a denial of a building permit, which purchase was made pursuant
to inaccurate, incorrect, untrue or fraudulent information on the part of the
seller or his agent, may recover damages from the seller or his agent by civil
action. However, the city shall not be liable for any damages that may occur as
a consequence of the denial of a building permit based upon such information.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-12: AMENDMENTS 1 :
   A.   Procedure: This development code, and the zoning map adopted as a part
thereof, may be amended from time to time by the city council, but all proposed
amendments must first be submitted to the planning commission for its
recommendation. The procedure to be followed in amending the development code
and map shall be as set forth below.
      1.   Written Petition Required; City Initiated Amendments Permitted:
         a.   Any person seeking an amendment of the development code or zoning
map shall submit to the planning commission a written petition designating the
change desired and the reasons therefor, and shall pay a nonrefundable filing
fee in an amount established by resolution of the city council.
         b.   Amendments to the development code and map may also be initiated
by action of the planning commission or upon request of the city council.
      2.   Planning Commission To Make Recommendation: Upon receipt of the
petition, the planning commission shall consider the request and shall submit
its recommendations with respect thereto to the city council. (Ord. 97-7-8-8,
7-8-1997)
      3.   Public Hearing Required; Notice Published:
         a.   No amendment to the map or development code may be adopted by the
city council unless and until the planning commission shall have conducted a
public hearing on the proposed amendment. Reasonable notice of the public
hearing shall be given at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing in
accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-205, as
amended.
         b.   No material change in or departure from an amendment recommended
by the planning commission following the hearing shall be made unless such
proposed change or departure shall have been first resubmitted to the planning
commission for its consideration and recommendation with respect thereto. (Ord.
06-7, 4-25-2006, eff. 5-16-2006)
      4.   Amendments Adopted By Ordinance; Public Notice Required: All
amendments to the development code and map shall be adopted, published or
posted and recorded in accordance with the applicable provisions of Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-701 et seq.
   B.   Intent With Respect To Amendments: All amendments to this development
code shall be made in accordance with the comprehensive plan of land use. It is
hereby declared to be public policy that this development code shall not be
amended unless it can be shown that changed or changing conditions make the
proposed amendment reasonably necessary to the promotion of the purposes of
this development code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  2-1-6E of this code.
10-3-13: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Whenever the provisions of this development code conflict with the provisions
of any other ordinance, resolution or part thereof, the more stringent shall
prevail. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-14: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any owner or agent of the owner of any land who shall fail to comply
with any of the provisions of this development code or who knowingly makes
false statements, representations or certifications in any application or
document filed or required to be maintained under this code shall be guilty of
a violation of this code.
   B.   Any owner or agent of the owner of any land who transfers or sells land
in a subdivision without first preparing and having approved and recorded a
final plat thereof in accordance with the provisions of this development code,
shall be deemed guilty of a violation for each parcel transferred or sold, and
the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
document used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt such
transaction from a violation or from the penalties and remedies provided in
this development code.
   C.   Any plat of a subdivision filed or recorded without the approval
required by this development code is void. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-3-15: REMEDIES FOR VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Injunction, Mandamus, Abatement:
      1.   The city council, zoning administrator or any owner of real estate
within the city in which a violation of this development code occurs or is
about to occur may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any unlawful building, use or act 1 .
      2.   The city need only to establish the violation to obtain the
injunction 2 .
   B.   Civil Penalties: In addition to being subject to injunctive or
abatement actions under this development code, any person who shall violate
this development code or any regulation, order or permit adopted or issued
under this development code is liable for a civil penalty not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day, to be collected in a civil
action 3 .
   C.   Withholding Building Permits: In addition to all other remedies, the
city may enforce the provisions of this development code by withholding
building, grading, excavation or similar permits, and may also refuse to issue
such a permit for a building or development upon a parcel which has not been
subdivided in accordance with the provisions of this development code. (Ord.
97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
   D.   Criminal Penalties: Violation of this code shall be punishable as a
class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Each Day Separate Violation: Each person, firm or corporation found
guilty of violation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day
during which any violation of any provision of this development code is
committed, continued or permitted. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-9-1002(1)(a).
2 2. UCA § 10-9-1002(1)(b).
3 3. UCA § 10-9-1003(2)(b).
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Certain Uses Prohibited In Certain Zones
10-4-2: Status Of Preexisting Illegal Uses
10-4-3: Uses On Leased Land To Comply
10-4-4: Review Fees
10-4-5: Entitlement To Land Use Applications
10-4-1: CERTAIN USES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN ZONES:
Uses of land which are specifically identified as permitted or conditional uses
in any zone that is included within this title are specifically prohibited in
any other zone within this title in which said use is not included as either
permitted or a conditional use. (Ord. 03-2-11-1, 2-11-2003, eff. 3-11-2003)
10-4-2: STATUS OF PREEXISTING ILLEGAL USES:
Any building or use of land or any construction thereon, or any subdivision of
land, which was not authorized by or under the preexisting zoning or
subdivision regulations, as amended, or which is illegal under such
regulations, shall remain unauthorized and illegal unless expressly authorized
or permitted in the provisions of this development code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-
1997)
10-4-3: USES ON LEASED LAND TO COMPLY:
Any person who may obtain state or federal properties by purchase, lease or
other arrangement must utilize such properties in accordance with the
provisions of this development code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-4-4: REVIEW FEES:
All costs for the processing of applications for subdivisions, large scale
developments, zone changes, conditional use approvals, appeal authority
rulings, and similar actions required under the terms of this development code
shall be borne by the applicant. The city council may, by resolution, establish
fees for the processing of such applications and the administration of this
development code, and provide for the assessment and collection thereof. (Ord.
97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
10-4-5: ENTITLEMENT TO LAND USE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the
application conforms to the requirements of the city's land use maps, zoning
map, and applicable land use ordinances in effect when a complete preliminary
application is submitted for official review by the land use authority (except
as otherwise provided in the city land use ordinances) and all fees have been
paid, unless:
      1.   The land use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling
municipal or public welfare/safety issue would be jeopardized by approving the
application; or
      2.   In the manner provided by local ordinance and before the application
is submitted, the city has formally initiated proceedings to amend its
ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as
submitted.
   B.   The city shall process an application without regard to proceedings
initiated to amend the city's ordinances if:
      1.   One hundred eighty (180) days have passed since the proceedings were
initiated; and
      2.   The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits
approval of the application as submitted.
   C.   An application for a land use approval is considered submitted and
complete when the application is provided in a form that complies with the
requirements of applicable ordinances and all applicable fees have been paid.
   D.   The continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is
conditioned upon the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the
approval with reasonable diligence.
   E.   The city may not impose on a holder of a paid and completed preliminary
application a requirement that is not expressed:
      1.   In the preliminary application or in documents on which the
preliminary application is based; or
      2.   In this chapter or the municipality's ordinances.
   F.   The city may not withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy
because of an applicant's failure to comply with a requirement that is not
expressed:
      1.   In the building permit or in documents on which the building permit
is based; or
      2.   In the city's ordinances. (Ord. 07-1, 1-23-2007)
CHAPTER 5
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Zones Established
10-5-2: Location Of Zones; Adoption Of Zone Map
10-5-3: Rules For Determining Zone Boundaries
10-5-1: ZONES ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes of this Development Code, the City is hereby
divided into zones as follows:
   A.   Residential Zones:
R-1-15,000 Residential Zone
R-1-20,000 Residential Zone
R-1-12,000 Residential Zone
   B.   Residential And Livestock Raising Zones:
RR-1 Rural Residential Zone
R&L-1-20,000 Residential and Limited Livestock Zone
   C.   Residential And Environmental Conservation Zones:
HR-1 Hillside Residential 1 Zone
CE-2 Critical Environmental Zone
   D.   Commercial And Industrial Zones:
C-1 Retail Commercial Zone
   E.   Other Zones:
PF Public Facilities Zone
Transferable Development Rights Overlay Zone
Hillside Cluster Overlay Zone
Senior Housing Overlay Zone
Planned Mountain Home Developments
(Ord. 98-12-8-14, 12-8-1998; amd. Ord. 00-9-12-12, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-9-2000;
Ord. 01-12-11-23, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002; Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008; Ord. 08-5,
2-26-2008; Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008, eff. 6-17-2008; Ord. 08-10, 7-22-2008, eff. 8-
12-2008; Ord. 10-1, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010; Ord. 10-2, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-
2010; Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010; Ord. 18-1, 1-23-2018)
10-5-2: LOCATION OF ZONES; ADOPTION OF ZONE MAP:
The location and boundaries of each zone shall be as set forth on the official
zone map of Elk Ridge City, Utah, 1993, revised, which map is appended hereto
and by this reference included as a part of this Development Code. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-5-3: RULES FOR DETERMINING ZONE BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of zones, as shown on
the zone map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where the indicated boundaries of the zone map are approximately street
or land survey lines, said street or land survey lines shall be construed to be
the zone boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximately canals, natural
streams or similar watercourses, the center of said canal, natural stream or
watercourse shall be construed to be the zone boundary line.
   C.   In the absence of any street, land survey, canal, natural stream or
watercourse as forming the boundaries of any zone, the scale or measurement
shown on the map shall be used to determine the zone boundary line. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997)
   D.   Where other uncertainty exists, the Appeal Authority shall interpret
the map. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
CHAPTER 6
REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Declaration
10-6-1: DECLARATION:
The specific regulations and restrictions applicable within each zone and
governing: a) the location and use of land, buildings and other structures for
residential, commercial, industrial or other purposes; b) the size of yards,
courts and other open spaces; c) the height, number of stories and size of
buildings and other structures; d) the density of population; e) the percentage
of a lot that may be occupied; and f) such other elements of development as
authorized by law or court action, shall be as herein set forth. (Ord. 97-7-8-
8, 7-8-1997)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. R-1-15,000 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Legislative Intent
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Conditional Uses
10-7A-4: Area And Width
10-7A-5: Access
10-7A-6: Location
10-7A-7: Utilities
10-7A-8: Dwellings
10-7A-9: Building Site
10-7A-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The R-1-15,000 Residential Zone covers the portion of the City which is
primarily suited for residential development represented by a commingling of
single-family dwellings and parks, schools, churches and other community
facilities designed to serve the residents of the City. The zone is
characterized by spacious lots, uncrowded buildings and quiet residential
conditions favorable to the rearing of children. Owners and developers of
property within this zone should bear in mind that primacy is given to
residential development and maintain their properties in recognition thereof.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 04-7, 8-17-2004, eff. 9-17-2004; Ord. 12-
05, 11-27-2012)
   B.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the intent
of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Foster care homes containing not more than three (3) nonrelated foster care
occupants.
Home occupations subject to the provisions of section
10-12-17 of this title.
Non-livestock animals specifically listed in section
10-18-5, table 10-18-A of this title.
Orchards and field crops.
Residential facilities for persons with a disability pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated.
Residential facilities for the elderly pursuant to Utah Code Annotated.
Single-family dwellings.
Utility transmission projects, minor. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-7A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
conditional uses upon compliance with the applicable requirements of this title
and after approval has been given by the designated review agency:
Accessory apartments (see section
10-12-29 of this title for requirements).
Wells, water storage tanks and similar facilities and structures. (Ord. 17-9,
9-26-2017)
10-7A-4: AREA AND WIDTH:
The minimum area and width requirements for a zoning lot shall be as follows:
 
Use                     Minimum Area       Minimum Width1
                                           (Feet)
Single-family dwellings 15,000 square feet 100
Churches                2.5 acres          200
Schools                 5 acres            200
 
Note:
    1.    For purposes of determining compliance with the width requirements,
the measurement of lot width shall be made along the front lot line at the
minimum front setback line. In the instance of a lot where more than 75 percent
of the front lot line abuts upon a cul-de-sac or curve having a radius of less
than 80 feet, the width of lot shall be measured along a line which is at right
angle to the point of tangency of said curve at its approximate midpoint, and
at a distance of not more than 40 feet from the front lot line.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
10-7A-5: ACCESS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a city street. The distance
of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width requirement of
the zone, except that the length of the abutting side may be reduced to not
less than sixty feet (60') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or curve in a
designated city street and the lot lines radiate in such a manner that the
width of the lot will meet or exceed the minimum lot width requirements as
determined in accordance with the provisions of section
10-7A-4 of this article. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-7A-6: LOCATION:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the front lot line which abuts on any
existing or proposed public street.
      2.   Side Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other main buildings, including
any attached garage or similar structure, shall be set back not less than
twelve feet (12') from any side property line not abutting a street.
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty five feet (25') from the side
lot line which abuts on any existing or proposed public street.
      3.   Rear Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line.
         b.   Corner lots: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line, except that where
a garage is attached to the rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for
said garage may be reduced to not less than twelve feet (12') as measured from
the rear lot line to the closest part of the building.
      4.   Optional Front/Rear Setback: The landowner may utilize one of either
a twenty five foot (25') front setback or a twenty five foot (25') rear setback
in place of the respective front or rear setback prescribed in subsections A1
and A3 of this section.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: For accessory building requirements, see
supplemental regulations, section
10-12-5 of this title. (Ord. 15-2, 7-14-2015)
10-7A-7: UTILITIES:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the city's culinary water and sanitary sewer system, or other approved system,
in accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-21 of this title, and also electric, natural gas and telephone utility
systems. (Ord. 01-1-9-3, 1-9-2001, eff. 1-18-2001)
10-7A-8: DWELLINGS:
   A.   Area Of Dwellings: Refer to section
10-12-41, "Dwelling Size Requirements For Residential Zones", of this title.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces such as garages, porches and sheds shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement.
   C.   Off Street Parking:
      1.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required
for each dwelling unit. Each off street parking space shall be not less than
ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') per space and shall not be located within
any portion of a front or side setback area adjacent to a street.
      2.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces appurtenant to a
dwelling shall be enclosed within a garage.
   D.   Special Provisions: All dwellings shall conform to the special
provisions relating to dwellings set forth under section
10-12-27 of this title.
   E.   Unrelated Residents: The number of unrelated individuals residing in a
dwelling unit shall not exceed four (4). (Ord. 13-2, 2-12-2013)
10-7A-9: BUILDING SITE:
   A.   Reverse Slope Driveways Prohibited; Exceptions: No driveway providing
access to a garage or off street parking area within a lot shall have a
downslope grade from the adjacent street to the garage or covered off street
parking area except when approved by the planning commission. The planning
commission may approve a downslope driveway upon finding that any drainage of
surface water will be adequately diverted from entry into the dwelling, garage
or other covered parking area and that the proposed diversion treatment will
not impact adjacent properties.
   B.   Buildable Area Required For Lots In All Residential Zones; Exceptions:
      1.   Each lot shall contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet. All
dwellings shall be located within said buildable area.
      2.   Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection B1 of this section, a
building permit may be issued for any existing lot of record which does not
contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, upon an approval of a site plan by the planning
commission and a finding that the proposed placement of the building conforms
to all other requirements of the zone.
   C.   Grading Plan Required: A final grading plan will be required for each
lot prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction of a dwelling
therein. (Ord. 98-5-26-6, 6-26-1998)
ARTICLE B. R-1-20,000 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Legislative Intent
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Conditional Uses
10-7B-4: Area And Width
10-7B-5: Access
10-7B-6: Location
10-7B-7: Utilities
10-7B-8: Dwellings
10-7B-9: Building Site
10-7B-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The R-1-20,000 Residential Zone covers the portion of the City
initially subdivided for residential development on one-half (1/2) acre or
larger lots. Representative of uses within the zone are single-family dwellings
commingled with parks, schools, churches and other community facilities
designed to serve the residents of the City. The zone is characterized by
spacious lots, uncrowded buildings and quiet residential conditions favorable
to the rearing of children. Owners and developers of property within this zone
should bear in mind that primacy is given to residential development and
maintain their properties in recognition thereof. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997;
amd. Ord. 04-7, 8-17-2004, eff. 9-17-2004; Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
   B.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the intent
of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Foster care homes containing not more than three (3) nonrelated foster care
occupants.
Home occupations subject to the provisions of section
10-12-17 of this title.
Non-livestock animals specifically listed in section
10-18-5, table 10-18-A of this title.
Orchards and field crops.
Residential facilities for persons with a disability pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated.
Residential facilities for the elderly pursuant to Utah Code Annotated.
Single-family dwellings.
Utility transmission projects, minor. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-7B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
conditional uses upon compliance with the applicable requirements of this title
and after approval has been given by the designated review agency:
Accessory apartments (see section
10-12-29 of this title for requirements).
Wells, water storage tanks and similar facilities and structures. (Ord. 17-9,
9-26-2017)
10-7B-4: AREA AND WIDTH:
The minimum area and width requirements for a zoning lot shall be as follows:
 
Use                     Minimum Area       Minimum Width1
                                           (Feet)
Single-family dwellings 20,000 square feet 120
Churches                2.5 acres          200
Schools                 5 acres            200
 
Note:
    1.    For purposes of determining compliance with the width requirements,
the measurement of lot width shall be made along the front lot line at the
minimum front setback line. In the instance of a lot where more than 75 percent
of the front lot line abuts upon a cul-de-sac or curve having a radius of less
than 80 feet, the width of lot shall be measured along a line which is at right
angle to the point of tangency of said curve at its approximate midpoint, and
at a distance of not more than 40 feet from the front lot line.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
10-7B-5: ACCESS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a city street. The distance
of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width requirement of
the zone, except that the length of the abutting side may be reduced to not
less than sixty feet (60') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or curve in a
designated city street and the lot lines radiate in such a manner that the
width of the lot will meet or exceed the minimum lot width requirements as
determined in accordance with the provisions of section
10-7B-4 of this article. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-7B-6: LOCATION:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the front lot line which abuts on any
existing or proposed public street.
      2.   Side Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other main buildings, including
any attached garage or similar structure, shall be set back not less than
twelve feet (12') from any side property line not abutting a street.
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty five feet (25') from the side
lot line which abuts on any existing or proposed public street.
      3.   Rear Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line.
         b.   Corner lots: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line, except that where
a garage is attached to the rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for
said garage may be reduced to not less than twelve feet (12') as measured from
the rear lot line to the closest part of the building.
      4.   Optional Front/Rear Setback: The landowner may utilize one of either
a twenty five foot (25') front setback or a twenty five foot (25') rear setback
in place of the respective front or rear setback prescribed in subsections A1
and A3 of this section.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: For accessory building requirements, see
supplemental regulations, section
10-12-5 of this title. (Ord. 15-2, 7-14-2015)
10-7B-7: UTILITIES:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the city's culinary water and sanitary sewer system or other approved system,
in accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-21 of this title, and also electric, natural gas and telephone utility
systems. (Ord. 01-1-9-3, 1-9-2001, eff. 1-18-2001)
10-7B-8: DWELLINGS:
   A.   Area Of Dwellings: Refer to section
10-12-41, "Dwelling Size Requirements For Residential Zones", of this title.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces such as garages, porches and sheds shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement.
   C.   Off Street Parking:
      1.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required
for each dwelling unit. Each off street parking space shall be not less than
ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') per space and shall not be located within
any portion of a front or side setback area adjacent to a street.
      2.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces appurtenant to a
dwelling shall be enclosed within a garage.
   D.   Special Provisions: All dwellings shall conform to the special
provisions relating to dwellings set forth under section
10-12-27 of this title.
   E.   Unrelated Residents: The number of unrelated individuals residing in a
dwelling unit shall not exceed four (4). (Ord. 13-2, 2-12-2013)
10-7B-9: BUILDING SITE:
   A.   Reverse Slope Driveways Prohibited; Exceptions: No driveway providing
access to a garage or off street parking area within a lot shall have a
downslope grade from the adjacent street to the garage or covered off street
parking area except when approved by the planning commission. The planning
commission may approve a downslope driveway upon finding that any drainage of
surface water will be adequately diverted from entry into the dwelling, garage
or other covered parking area and that the proposed diversion treatment will
not impact adjacent properties.
   B.   Buildable Area Required For Lots In All Residential Zones; Exceptions:
      1.   Each lot shall contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet. All
dwellings shall be located within said buildable area.
      2.   Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection B1 of this section, a
building permit may be issued for any existing lot of record which does not
contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, upon an approval of a site plan by the planning
commission and a finding that the proposed placement of the building conforms
to all other requirements of the zone.
   C.   Grading Plan Required: A final grading plan will be required for each
lot prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction of a dwelling
therein. (Ord. 98-5-26-6, 6-26-1998)
ARTICLE C. R-1-12,000 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-7C-1: Legislative Intent
10-7C-2: Permitted Uses
10-7C-3: Conditional Uses
10-7C-4: Lot Size And Frontage
10-7C-5: Access
10-7C-6: Location
10-7C-7: Utilities
10-7C-8: Dwellings
10-7C-9: Building Site
10-7C-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The R-1-12,000 Residential Zone covers the portion of the City which is
primarily suited for denser development abutting adjacent development in
bordering cities. Development within the zone is represented by a commingling
of single-family dwellings and parks, schools, churches, and other community
facilities designed to serve the residents of the City. The zone is
characterized by smaller lots, quiet residential conditions favorable to the
rearing of children and an abundance of open space. Owners and developers of
property within this zone should bear in mind that primacy is given to
residential development and maintain their properties in recognition thereof.
(Ord. 10-1, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
   B.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the intent
of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 10-1, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Foster care homes containing not more than three (3) nonrelated foster care
occupants.
Home occupations subject to the provisions of section
10-12-17 of this title.
Non-livestock animals specifically listed in section
10-18-5, table 10-18-A of this title.
Orchards and field crops.
Residential facilities for persons with a disability pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated.
Residential facilities for the elderly pursuant to Utah Code Annotated.
Single-family dwellings.
Utility transmission projects, minor. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-7C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
conditional uses upon compliance with the applicable requirements of this title
and after approval has been given by the designated review agency:
Accessory apartments (see section
10-12-29 of this title for requirements).
Wells, water storage tanks and similar facilities and structures. (Ord. 10-1,
1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-7C-4: LOT SIZE AND FRONTAGE:
Twelve thousand (12,000) square feet or larger lots are the allowed base
density of the zone. Frontage along a City street shall be a minimum of eighty
feet (80'). For lots abutting an elbow type curve or cul-de-sac the frontage
requirement may be reduced to sixty feet (60'), provided that the width
requirement is satisfied at the front lot line adjoining the street. (Ord. 10-
1, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-7C-5: ACCESS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a city street. (Ord. 10-1,
1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-7C-6: LOCATION:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the front lot line which abuts on any
existing or proposed public street.
      2.   Side Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other main buildings, including
any attached garage or similar structure, shall be set back not less than
twelve feet (12') from any side property line not abutting a street.
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty five feet (25') from the side
lot line which abuts on any existing or proposed public street, subject to
section
10-15C-4 of this title.
      3.   Rear Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line.
         b.   Corner lots: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line, except that where
a garage is attached to the rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for
said garage may be reduced to not less than twelve feet (12') as measured from
the rear lot line to the closest part of the building.
      4.   Optional Front/Rear Setback: The landowner may utilize one of either
a twenty five foot (25') front setback or a twenty five foot (25') rear setback
in place of the respective front or rear setback prescribed in subsections A1
and A3 of this section.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: For accessory building requirements, see
supplemental regulations, section
10-12-5 of this title. (Ord. 15-2, 7-14-2015)
10-7C-7: UTILITIES:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the city's culinary water and sanitary sewer system or other approved system,
in accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-21 of this title, and also electric, natural gas and telephone utility
systems. (Ord. 10-1, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-7C-8: DWELLINGS:
   A.   Area Of Dwellings: Refer to section
10-12-41, "Dwelling Size Requirements For Residential Zones", of this title.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces such as garages, porches and sheds shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement.
   C.   Off Street Parking:
      1.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required
for each dwelling unit. Each off street parking space shall be not less than
ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') per space and shall not be located within
any portion of a front or side setback area adjacent to a street.
      2.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces appurtenant to a
dwelling shall be enclosed within a garage or other covered structure.
   D.   Special Provisions: All dwellings shall conform to the special
provisions relating to dwellings set forth under section
10-12-27 of this title.
   E.   Unrelated Residents: The number of unrelated individuals residing in a
dwelling unit shall not exceed four (4). (Ord. 13-2, 2-12-2013)
10-7C-9: BUILDING SITE:
   A.   Reverse Slope Driveways Prohibited; Exceptions: No driveway providing
access to a garage or off street parking area within a lot shall have a
downslope grade from the adjacent street to the garage or covered off street
parking area except when approved by the planning commission. The planning
commission may approve a downslope driveway upon finding that any drainage of
surface water will be adequately diverted from entry into the dwelling, garage
or other covered parking area and that the proposed diversion treatment will
not impact adjacent properties.
   B.   Buildable Area Required For Lots In All Residential Zones; Exceptions:
      1.   Each lot shall contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet. All
dwellings shall be located within said buildable area.
      2.   Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection B1 of this section, a
building permit may be issued for any existing lot of record which does not
contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, upon an approval of a site plan by the planning
commission and a finding that the proposed placement of the building conforms
to all other requirements of the zone.
   C.   Grading Plan Required: A final grading plan will be required for each
lot prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction of a dwelling
therein. (Ord. 10-1, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL AND LIVESTOCK RAISING ZONES
ARTICLE A. RR-1 RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Legislative Intent
10-8A-2: Permitted Uses
10-8A-3: Conditional Uses
10-8A-4: Area And Width
10-8A-5: Access
10-8A-6: Location
10-8A-7: Utilities
10-8A-8: Dwellings
10-8A-9: Building Site
10-8A-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The objective in establishing the RR-1 Rural Residential Zone is to
provide a location within the City for a residential and agricultural
environment where the residents may engage in significant agricultural
pursuits, including the keeping of livestock. Quiet residential conditions
favorable to family living and the rearing of children shall also be
characteristic of this zone. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
   B.   Representative of the uses within the RR-1 Zone are single- family
dwellings, the keeping of domestic livestock, parks, churches and other
community facilities designed in harmony with the characteristics of the zone.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 04-7, 8-17-2004, eff. 9-17-2004; Ord. 12-
05, 11-27-2012)
   C.   Residents and developers within the zone should bear in mind that the
proximity of animals to dwellings is an integral part of the zone and should
occupy the residences in recognition thereof.
   D.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the intent
of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Foster care homes containing not more than three (3) nonrelated foster care
occupants.
Home occupations subject to the provisions of section
10-12-17 of this title.
Non-livestock and livestock animals specifically listed in section
10-18-5, table 10-18-B of this title.
Orchards and field crops.
Residential facilities for persons with a disability pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated.
Residential facilities for the elderly pursuant to Utah Code Annotated.
Single-family dwellings.
Utility transmission projects, minor. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-8A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
conditional uses upon compliance with the applicable requirements set forth in
this Development Code and after approval has been given by the designated
review agencies. (Approval of other agencies or levels of government may be
required.)
Accessory apartments (see section
10-12-29 of this title for requirements).
Arenas, public or private, indoor or outdoor, subject to all applicable
provisions of chapter 12 of this title.
Wells, water storage tanks and similar facilities and structures. (Ord. 17-9,
9-26-2017)
10-8A-4: AREA AND WIDTH:
The minimum area and width requirements for a zoning lot shall be as follows:
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
 
Use                     Minimum Area       Minimum Width1
                                           (Feet)
Single-family dwellings 20,000 square feet 120
Churches                2.5 acres          200
Schools                 5 acres            200
 
Note:
    1.    For purposes of determining compliance with the width requirements,
the measurement of lot width shall be made along the front lot line at the
minimum front setback line, except as may be permitted pursuant to section
10-8A-5 of this article.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
10-8A-5: ACCESS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a city maintained street.
The distance of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width
requirement of the zone, as measured at the minimum front setback line, except
that for interior lots which front upon a curve or cul-de-sac, the length of
the abutting side may be reduced to not less than sixty feet (60'); provided,
that the side lot lines radiate in such a manner that the width of the lot will
meet or exceed the minimum lot width requirements as determined in accordance
with the provisions of section
10-8A-4 of this article at a distance of not more than forty feet (40') from
the front lot line. (Ord. 08-9, 7-8-2008)
10-8A-6: LOCATION:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the front lot line which abuts on any
existing or proposed public street.
      2.   Side Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other main buildings, including
any attached garage or similar structure, shall be set back not less than
twelve feet (12') from any side property line not abutting a street.
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty five feet (25') from the side
lot line which abuts on any existing or proposed public street.
      3.   Rear Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line.
         b.   Corner lots: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line, except that where
a garage is attached to the rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for
said garage may be reduced to not less than twelve feet (12') as measured from
the rear lot line to the closest part of the building.
      4.   Optional Front/Rear Setback: The landowner may utilize one of either
a twenty five foot (25') front setback or a twenty five foot (25') rear setback
in place of the respective front or rear setback prescribed in subsections A1
and A3 of this section.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: For accessory building requirements, see
supplemental regulations, section
10-12-5 of this title. (Ord. 15-2, 7-14-2015)
10-8A-7: UTILITIES:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the city culinary water and sanitary sewer system or other approved system in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-21 of this title, and also electric, natural gas and telephone utility
systems. (Ord. 01-1-9-3, 1-9-2001, eff. 1-18-2001)
10-8A-8: DWELLINGS:
   A.   Area Of Dwellings: Refer to section
10-12-41, "Dwelling Size Requirements For Residential Zones", of this title.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces such as garages, porches and sheds shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement.
   C.   Off Street Parking:
      1.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required
for each dwelling unit. Each off street parking space shall be not less than
ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') per space and shall not be located within
any portion of a front or side setback area adjacent to a street.
      2.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces appurtenant to a
dwelling shall be enclosed within a garage.
   D.   Special Provisions: All dwellings shall conform to the special
provisions relating to dwellings set forth under section
10-12-27 of this title.
   E.   Unrelated Residents: The number of unrelated individuals residing in a
dwelling unit shall not exceed four (4). (Ord. 13-2, 2-12-2013)
10-8A-9: BUILDING SITE:
   A.   Reverse Slope Driveways Prohibited; Exceptions: No driveway providing
access to a garage or off street parking area within a lot shall have a
downslope grade from the adjacent street to the garage or covered off street
parking area except when approved by the planning commission. The planning
commission may approve a downslope driveway upon finding that any drainage of
surface water will be adequately diverted from entry into the dwelling, garage
or other covered parking area and that the proposed diversion treatment will
not impact adjacent properties.
   B.   Buildable Area Required For Lots In All Residential Zones; Exceptions:
      1.   Each lot shall contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet. All
dwellings shall be located within said buildable area.
      2.   Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection B1 of this section, a
building permit may be issued for any existing lot of record which does not
contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, upon an approval of a site plan by the planning
commission and a finding that the proposed placement of the building conforms
to all other requirements of the zone.
   C.   Grading Plan Required: A final grading plan will be required for each
lot prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction of a dwelling
therein. (Ord. 98-5-26-6, 6-26-1998)
ARTICLE B. R&L-1-20,000 RESIDENTIAL AND LIMITED LIVESTOCK ZONE
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Legislative Intent
10-8B-2: Permitted Uses
10-8B-3: Conditional Uses
10-8B-4: Area And Width
10-8B-5: Access
10-8B-6: Location
10-8B-7: Utilities
10-8B-8: Dwellings
10-8B-9: Building Site
10-8B-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The objective in establishing the R&L-1-20,000 Residential and Limited
Livestock Zone is to provide a location within the City for a residential
development associated with the keeping of limited livestock. Quiet residential
conditions favorable to family living and the rearing of children shall also be
characteristic of this zone. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
   B.   Representative of the uses within the R&L-1-20,000 Zone are single-
family dwellings, the keeping of domestic livestock, parks, churches and other
community facilities designed in harmony with the characteristics of the zone.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 04-7, 8-17-2004, eff. 9-17-2004; Ord. 12-
05, 11-27-2012)
   C.   Residents and developers within the zone should bear in mind that the
proximity of animals to dwellings is an integral part of the zone and should
occupy the residences in recognition thereof.
   D.   The specific regulations necessary for the accomplishment of the intent
of the zone are hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the applicable requirements of this title:
Foster care homes containing not more than three (3) nonrelated foster care
occupants.
Home occupations subject to the provisions of section
10-12-17 of this title.
Non-livestock and livestock animals specifically listed in section
10-18-5, table 10-18-B of this title.
Orchards and field crops.
Residential facilities for persons with a disability pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated.
Residential facilities for the elderly pursuant to Utah Code Annotated.
Single-family dwellings.
Utility transmission projects, minor. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-8B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
conditional uses upon compliance with the applicable requirements set forth in
this Development Code and after approval has been given by the designated
review agencies. (Approval of other agencies or levels of government may be
required.)
Accessory apartments (see section
10-12-29 of this title for requirements).
Arenas, public or private, indoor or outdoor, subject to all applicable
provisions of chapter 12 of this title.
Wells, water storage tanks and similar facilities and structures. (Ord. 17-9,
9-26-2017)
10-8B-4: AREA AND WIDTH:
The minimum area and width requirements for a zoning lot shall be as follows:
 
Use                     Minimum Area       Minimum Width1
                                           (Feet)
Single-family dwellings 20,000 square feet 120
Churches                2.5 acres          200
Schools                 5 acres            200
 
Note:
    1.    For purposes of determining compliance with the width requirements,
the measurement of lot width shall be made along the front lot line at the
minimum front setback line. In the instance of a lot where more than 75 percent
of the front lot line abuts upon a cul-de-sac or curve having a radius of less
than 80 feet, the width of lot shall be measured along a line which is at right
angle to the point of tangency of said curve at its approximate midpoint, and
at a distance of not more than 40 feet from the front lot line.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
10-8B-5: ACCESS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a City street. The distance
of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width requirement of
the zone, except that the length of the abutting side may be reduced to not
less than sixty feet (60') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or curve in a
designated City street and the lot lines radiate in such a manner that the
width of the lot will meet or exceed the minimum lot width requirements as
determined in accordance with the provisions of section
10-8B-4 of this article. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-8B-6: LOCATION:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the front lot line which abuts on any
existing or proposed public street.
      2.   Side Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings and other main buildings, including
any attached garage or similar structure, shall be set back not less than
twelve feet (12') from any side property line not abutting a street.
         b.   Corner lots; side abutting street: All dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back not less than twenty five feet (25') from the side
lot line which abuts on any existing or proposed public street.
      3.   Rear Setback:
         a.   Interior lots: All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line.
         b.   Corner lots: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back not less than thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line, except that where
a garage is attached to the rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for
said garage may be reduced to not less than twelve feet (12') as measured from
the rear lot line to the closest part of the building.
      4.   Optional Front/Rear Setback: The landowner may utilize one of either
a twenty five foot (25') front setback or a twenty five foot (25') rear setback
in place of the respective front or rear setback prescribed in subsections A1
and A3 of this section.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: For accessory building requirements, see
supplemental regulations, section
10-12-5 of this title. (Ord. 15-2, 7-14-2015)
10-8B-7: UTILITIES:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the City's culinary water and sanitary sewer system or other approved system in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-21 of this title, and also electric, natural gas and telephone utility
systems. (Ord. 01-1-9-3, 1-9-2001, eff. 1-18-2001)
10-8B-8: DWELLINGS:
   A.   Area Of Dwellings: Refer to section
10-12-41, "Dwelling Size Requirements For Residential Zones", of this title.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces such as garages, porches and sheds shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement.
   C.   Off Street Parking:
      1.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required
for each dwelling unit. Each off street parking space shall be not less than
ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') per space and shall not be located within
any portion of a front or side setback area adjacent to a street.
      2.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces appurtenant to a
dwelling shall be enclosed within a garage.
   D.   Special Provisions: All dwellings shall conform to the special
provisions relating to dwellings set forth under section
10-12-27 of this title.
   E.   Unrelated Residents: The number of unrelated individuals residing in a
dwelling unit shall not exceed four (4). (Ord. 13-2, 2-12-2013)
10-8B-9: BUILDING SITE:
   A.   Reverse Slope Driveways Prohibited; Exceptions: No driveway providing
access to a garage or off street parking area within a lot shall have a
downslope grade from the adjacent street to the garage or covered off street
parking area except when approved by the planning commission. The planning
commission may approve a downslope driveway upon finding that any drainage of
surface water will be adequately diverted from entry into the dwelling, garage
or other covered parking area and that the proposed diversion treatment will
not impact adjacent properties.
   B.   Buildable Area Required For Lots In All Residential Zones; Exceptions:
      1.   Each lot shall contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet. All
dwellings shall be located within said buildable area.
      2.   Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection B1 of this section, a
building permit may be issued for any existing lot of record which does not
contain a "buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, upon an approval of a site plan by the planning
commission and a finding that the proposed placement of the building conforms
to all other requirements of the zone.
   C.   Grading Plan Required: A final grading plan will be required for each
lot prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction of a dwelling
therein. (Ord. 98-5-26-6, 6-26-1998)
CHAPTER 9
RESIDENTIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION ZONES
ARTICLE A. HR-1 HILLSIDE RESIDENTIAL 1 ZONE
SECTION:
10-9A-1: Legislative Intent
10-9A-2: Preservation Of Natural Environment
10-9A-3: Mitigation
10-9A-4: Property Rights
10-9A-5: Location And Design
10-9A-6: Natural Hazards
10-9A-7: Protection And Conservation
10-9A-8: Minimize Impacts
10-9A-9: Permitted And Conditional Uses
10-9A-9-1: Permitted Uses
10-9A-9-2: Conditional Uses
10-9A-10: Subdivision Design And Environmental Constraints
10-9A-10-1: Sensitive Area Determination
10-9A-10-2: Ravines And Drainages
10-9A-10-3: Ridgelines
10-9A-10-4: Fault Lines
10-9A-10-5: Wildlife Corridors
10-9A-10-6: Unstable Soils
10-9A-10-7: Slopes Twenty Percent Or Greater
10-9A-10-8: Removal Of Natural Vegetation For A Development
10-9A-10-9: Cuts And Fills
10-9A-11: Open Space Requirements
10-9A-11-1: Requirement Of Open Space
10-9A-11-2: Areas Required As Open Space
10-9A-11-3: Types Of Open Space
10-9A-11-4: Open Space Dedication To City
10-9A-11-5: Open Space On Private Land
10-9A-11-6: Allowed Uses Within Open Space
10-9A-11-7: Trails
10-9A-12: Lot Design Requirements
10-9A-12-1: Lot Size
10-9A-12-2: Open Space Requirement
10-9A-12-3: Building Envelope
10-9A-12-4: Steeper Buildable Slopes
10-9A-12-5: Lot Frontage
10-9A-12-6: Front Setback
10-9A-12-7: Front Setback Exception
10-9A-12-8: Side Setback
10-9A-12-9: Rear Setback
10-9A-12-10: Lot Requirement Table
10-9A-13: Street Design Requirements
10-9A-13-1: Access
10-9A-13-2: Improvement Required
10-9A-13-3: Road Grade
10-9A-13-4: Traversing Ten Percent Slopes
10-9A-13-5: Traversing Thirty Percent Slopes
10-9A-13-6: Intersection Grade
10-9A-13-7: Cuts And Fills
10-9A-13-8: Stabilization And Revegetation
10-9A-13-9: Cul-De-Sacs
10-9A-13-10: Through Roads
10-9A-13-11: Secondary Access
10-9A-14: Concept Plan
10-9A-14-1: Application And Fee
10-9A-14-2: Vesting
10-9A-14-3: Sensitive Areas Plan
10-9A-14-4: Staff Review
10-9A-14-5: Neighborhood Meeting
10-9A-14-6: Planning Commission Review
10-9A-15: Preliminary Plat And Required Plans
10-9A-15-1: Application And Fee
10-9A-15-2: Vesting
10-9A-15-3: Sensitive Areas Plan
10-9A-15-4: Slope Analysis Plan
10-9A-15-5: Preliminary Plat Requirements
10-9A-15-6: Revegetation/Retention Plan
10-9A-15-7: Erosion Control Plan
10-9A-15-8: Preliminary Geotechnical Report
10-9A-15-9: Staff Review
10-9A-15-10: Public Hearing
10-9A-15-11: Planning Commission Review
10-9A-15-12: Planning Commission Action
10-9A-15-13: City Council Action
10-9A-16: Final Plat
10-9A-16-1: Application And Fee
10-9A-16-2: Final Plat Requirements
10-9A-16-3: Final Geotechnical Report
10-9A-16-4: Public Meeting
10-9A-16-5: Planning Commission Review/Action
10-9A-16-6: City Council Action
10-9A-16-7: Grading Permit
10-9A-17: Grading Of Individual Building Lot
10-9A-17-1: Building With The Natural Terrain
10-9A-17-2: Revegetation/Retention Plan
10-9A-17-3: Removal Of Natural Vegetation
10-9A-17-4: Cuts And Fills
10-9A-17-5: Grading Permit
10-9A-18: Dwelling Requirements
10-9A-18-1: Building Envelope
10-9A-18-2: Rambler Dwellings
10-9A-18-3: Multi-Story Dwellings
10-9A-18-4: Minimum Dimension
10-9A-18-5: Height Of Building
10-9A-18-6: Conformance With Special Dwelling Requirements
10-9A-18-7: Dwelling Occupancy Limit
10-9A-19: Off Street Parking And Driveways
10-9A-19-1: Off Street Parking
10-9A-19-2: Garage
10-9A-19-3: Reverse Slope Driveways
10-9A-19-4: Driveway Grade
10-9A-20: Fencing
10-9A-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
The intent and purpose of the HR-1 zone is to delineate environmentally
sensitive areas within the city and to establish standards and guidelines for
the uses and development activities occurring therein which recognize and
appropriately balance the diverse interests arising from development. Because
of the sensitive nature of the land in this zone, special conditions and
requirements are attached to developments and building within the zone to
promote the implementation of the legislative intent and to mitigate potential
adverse aspects of developing in the area. Removing natural vegetation,
creating large cuts and fills, and extensive grading can lead to hazards and
are detrimental to the natural hillside environment of the city. The intent of
the HR-1 zone is to limit such activities. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-2: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL ENVIRONMENT:
This code supports the need for the preservation of the natural environment
conditions through clustering of development on flatter land, dedication of
open space, preserving ravines and drainages, minimal or no building on steep
slopes and ridgelines, and preserving wildlife habitat corridors in their
natural state. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-3: MITIGATION:
This code establishes the need for mitigation of potentially adverse or unsafe
conditions arising from development activities for the protection of the
interests of subsequent purchasers and occupants and adjacent landowners. (Ord.
08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-4: PROPERTY RIGHTS:
This code recognizes the rights of current owners to the reasonable use of the
developable property providing development falls within the guidelines of the
zone. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-5: LOCATION AND DESIGN:
This code facilitates the location, design and construction of uses,
development projects, and building sites within the zone, which provide safety
consistent with the natural limitations and the need for protection of the
environment. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-6: NATURAL HAZARDS:
Development must avoid or mitigate the potential impact of natural hazards from
earthquakes, landslides, floods, fires and similar calamities, and reduce the
extent of public involvement or expenditure in subsequent mitigation of the
adverse or unsafe conditions. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-7: PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION:
Development must protect and conserve the culinary water supply, sensitive
vegetation, soil, wildlife habitat and other natural resources within the area.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-8: MINIMIZE IMPACTS:
Development must minimize impacts to the present terrain and natural
conditions. It must be demonstrated to the planning commission and city council
that any proposed development will preserve the natural features and conditions
of the area. Roadways and building envelopes shall conform to the lay of the
land as much as possible. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-9: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
Various activities are allowed within the HR-1 Zone. Also some uses can be
allowed with conditions. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-9-1: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted within the HR-1 Zone are the standard uses allowed within the
zone. Though their use is permitted, they must be constrained to the intent and
regulations of the HR-1 Zone. Permitted uses include:
Foster care homes.
Home occupations.
Livestock grazing.
Minor utility transmission projects.
Non-livestock and livestock animals specifically listed in section
10-18-5, table 10-18-B of this title.
Orchards and field crops.
Residential facilities for persons with a disability.
Residential facilities for the elderly.
Single-family residential dwellings on forty thousand (40,000) square foot lots
or larger. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-9A-9-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses are those that can be allowed if approved by the Planning
Commission. It should be demonstrated that the proposed use is in concert with
the General Plan, zoning ordinances, adjacent land uses and adjacent
conditional uses. The Planning Commission can require additional conditions be
placed on these uses if such requirements help mitigate potential adverse
effects that the use could cause. These uses can be denied if found that the
negative effects outweigh the positive or if the health, safety, and welfare of
the people is jeopardized. The following can be allowed as conditional uses:
Accessory apartments (see section
10-12-29 of this title for requirements).
Agricultural buildings directly associated with agricultural development. (Ord.
17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-9A-10: SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINTS:
Designing a development that conforms to the natural constraints of the terrain
and the unique geologic features of the area is a main concern for maintaining
the safety of current and future residents, preserving the aesthetic appearance
of the hillside terrain, and allowing wildlife to continue to reside in the
area. The first stage in designing a development in the HR-1 Zone shall be to
determine what areas shall be left in a natural condition and how development
shall minimize impacts to the hillside terrain. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-10-1: SENSITIVE AREA DETERMINATION:
In designing a development an applicant must first identify the property's
sensitive environmental and aesthetic areas such as steep slopes, ridgeline
areas, ravines and drainages, fault lines, unstable soils, and wildlife habitat
areas. Impacts of development to these areas should be minimized or be
dedicated to open space. A sensitive areas plan shall be required prior to the
preliminary plat mapping all environmental constraints and illustrating the
proposed layout of the subdivision demonstrating that impacts to the sensitive
environmental and aesthetic areas are avoided or minimized. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-
2008)
10-9A-10-2: RAVINES AND DRAINAGES:
A ravine is considered a continual low point in topography that slopes down a
hillside. A drainage is similar to a ravine but is shown on the General Plan
soils map as a low point that could carry water. The area thirty feet (30')
from each side of the center of these features shall be designated as open
space. All slopes twenty percent (20%) or greater and any incidental lesser
slopes interspersed within these steeper slopes, rising from ravines and
drainages, shall also be designated as open space. No building envelope shall
be within these areas. City staff or the Planning Commission can require a
larger setback if the drainage is wide in nature or if greater distances are
required as established by a professional geologist, geotechnical engineer, or
civil engineer registered in the State of Utah. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-10-3: RIDGELINES:
A "ridge" is defined as an elongated crest or series of crests of a hill and a
"ridgeline" is defined as the highest elevation of a ridge running parallel
with the long axis of the ridge. Any ridge or ridgeline or portion of a ridge
or ridgeline with slopes greater than twenty percent (20%) shall be designated
as open space. The open space area associated with the ridgeline will include
all slopes twenty percent (20%) or greater and any lesser slopes interspersed
within these steeper slopes. Required open space shall also extend uphill fifty
feet (50') from the crest of the twenty percent (20%) slopes. City staff shall
designate ridgeline areas citywide and show them on the sensitive lands map on
file. No building envelope shall be within these areas. (Ord. 08-12, 7-22-2008,
eff. 8-12-2008)
10-9A-10-4: FAULT LINES:
No building envelope shall be located within a minimum of one hundred feet
(100') of a fault line as shown on the sensitive lands map on file, unless
greater distances are required as established by a professional geologist or
geotechnical engineer registered in the state of Utah. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-10-5: WILDLIFE CORRIDORS:
Development shall preserve features, such as ridgelines, drainages, ravines,
and other areas identified as a wildlife corridor. City staff shall designate
wildlife corridors citywide and show them on the sensitive lands map on file.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-10-6: UNSTABLE SOILS:
No building envelope shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of an area
identified to have unstable soils as disclosed within a geotechnical report,
unless greater distances are required as established by a professional
geologist or geotechnical engineer registered in the state of Utah. (Ord. 08-4,
2-26-2008)
10-9A-10-7: SLOPES TWENTY PERCENT OR GREATER:
All land having a slope of twenty percent (20%) or greater that is not a part
of an approved building envelope shall remain in its natural state and shall
not be graded, fenced, or otherwise disturbed. The planting of additional
vegetation and/or the addition of sprinkler irrigation systems is allowed.
Roads, trails, firebreaks, utilities, retention walls, and driveways can
traverse these areas if it is demonstrated that they adhere to cuts and fills
requirements in section
10-9A-17-4 of this article and other requirements in this code or that by their
construction other adverse conditions are mitigated. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-10-8: REMOVAL OF NATURAL VEGETATION FOR A DEVELOPMENT:
Natural vegetation including indigenous hardwood trees shall not be removed
except for those portions of the site to be committed to the construction of
roads, trails, firebreaks, utilities, and retention walls. All areas proposed
for removal of vegetative materials shall be shown on the revegetation/
retention plan. Revegetation of the types of trees removed may be required by
the planning commission or from a professional landscaping firm for areas of
cuts and fills and around retention walls. Areas requiring revegetation will be
shown on the revegetation/retention plan. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-10-9: CUTS AND FILLS:
Since development is required to conform to natural terrain conditions, at the
subdivision phase, cuts and fills should only be associated with the
construction of roads, trails, utilities, or other approved activities. Cuts,
fills, and any grading to a lot should be completed at the time individual lot
development occurs in the building process. Benching or terracing to provide
additional or larger building sites is prohibited. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-11: OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
Open space and preserving the natural conditions are a fundamental aspect of
the HR-1 zone. The following are requirements for all developments within the
HR-1 zone. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-11-1: REQUIREMENT OF OPEN SPACE:
Open space areas shall be shown on the plat map marked as unbuildable. Open
space areas must remain in their natural state unless revegetation or retention
is needed to mitigate adverse conditions due to past uses or if the planning
commission approves an allowed use. The commission must approve the locations
of proposed open space and any uses within them. The commission can also
require additional areas of open space to further implement the intent of the
zone. Open space can be public or private, part of a homeowners' association,
or part of a private lot. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-11-2: AREAS REQUIRED AS OPEN SPACE:
All slopes twenty percent (20%) or greater that are not a part of a building
envelope are required to be preserved as open space. Ravines, drainages,
ridgelines, unstable soils, and wildlife corridors shall also be preserved as
open space. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-11-3: TYPES OF OPEN SPACE:
Open space areas include three (3) categories: land deeded to the city as open
space; areas preserved as open space as part of a homeowners' association;
areas preserved as open space on private lots. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-11-4: OPEN SPACE DEDICATION TO CITY:
Any open space to be deeded to the city must be recommended by the planning
commission and approved by the city council. If approved, the title must be
conveyed to the city and be designated for open space purposes. Open space
deeded to the city should be continuous to other open space areas, roads,
trails, or adjacent properties that have the potential to become open space.
These areas will be labeled on the preliminary and final plats as nonbuildable
(except for areas approved for building allowed uses) and must be cordoned off
during any grading and construction activities with nylon fencing or
equivalent. The applicant and the city shall enter into a preservation
agreement requiring the open space area to remain as such in perpetuity. Open
space deeded to the city cannot be a part of a building lot or homeowners'
association. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-11-5: OPEN SPACE ON PRIVATE LAND:
Designated open space areas on private property either on an individual lot or
as part of a homeowners' association shall be required to have an open space
preservation agreement with the city. The owner agrees to refrain from
excavating, constructing roadways, or installing utilities not approved as part
of a preliminary/final plat, or constructing any dwellings or other structures
within the designated open space area. These areas will be labeled on the
preliminary and final plats and must be cordoned off during any grading and
construction activities with nylon fencing or equivalent. The applicant and the
city shall enter into a preservation agreement requiring the open space area to
remain as such in perpetuity. Open space cannot be a part of a building
envelope. These areas will remain in private ownership. The owner can allow or
limit access. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-11-6: ALLOWED USES WITHIN OPEN SPACE:
Roads, trails, utility corridors, and driveways can traverse open space areas
if it is demonstrated that they pose a minimal impact to the area or that by
their construction other adverse conditions are mitigated. Cuts and fills for
these activities shall be revegetated and shown on the revegetation plan.
Developed parks with lawn and Xeriscape, play equipment, picnic areas,
pavilions, or other park facilities can be interspersed within open space
areas. Open space can be linear along road corridors to allow for trails,
sidewalks, or entrance features. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-11-7: TRAILS:
Trails required along roadways shown on the city trail plan shall be ten feet
(10') wide and paved as described within the trail development standard. Trails
traversing and connecting open space areas are required in cluster
developments. Trail access must be provided in all developments from cul-de-
sacs connecting to open space areas or to adjoining current or future
developments. Trails connecting roads through open space to adjoining
developments shall be six feet (6') wide, paved, and be set back from adjoining
lot property lines at least fifteen feet (15') on each side. The planning
commission can waive the paved trail requirement for gravel in areas that a
gravel trail would be appropriate to help preserve natural conditions. (Ord.
08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12: LOT DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
The design of lots shall conform to the environmental constraints of the
property. The size, buildable areas and frontage to city streets are explained
in this section. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12-1: LOT SIZE:
Forty thousand (40,000) square foot and larger lots are the allowed base
density of the zone and can be platted on terrain of any slope as long as the
following requirements are met. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12-2: OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT:
Open space areas are required in the HR-1 zone to preserve natural features
that sustain hillside stability. For base density developments, open space
areas shall conform to the requirements listed under sections
10-9A-10 through
10-9A-11-7 of this article. Open space can be a part of individual lots.
Ravines, drainages, steep slopes, ridgelines, fault lines, unstable soils, and
wildlife habitat corridors all must be included within open space areas. (Ord.
08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12-3: BUILDING ENVELOPE:
The building envelope location shall conform to the natural terrain and remain
within the areas of least slope. This area could be considerably smaller than
the lot to accomplish this requirement. The minimum building envelope size is
four thousand (4,000) square feet. The front, side and rear setback
requirements must be met. No design envelope can be located within areas of
thirty percent (30%) or greater slopes, nor can these slopes be graded to
provide for a buildable area. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12-4: STEEPER BUILDABLE SLOPES:
Lots that contain natural terrain with slopes between twenty percent (20%) and
twenty nine percent (29%) must be engineered and approved by a licensed
engineer. The city engineer and planning commission must approve lots
incorporating these slopes. A building envelope can only contain a maximum of
fifty percent (50%) of its area of these steeper slopes. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12-5: LOT FRONTAGE:
Frontage along a city street shall be a minimum of one hundred fifty feet
(150'). Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a city street. The
distance of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum width
requirement of the zone, except that the length of the abutting side may be
reduced to not less than sixty feet (60') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac
or curve in a designated city street and the lot lines radiate in such a manner
that the width of the lot will meet or exceed the minimum lot width
requirements as determined in accordance with city code. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008;
amd. Ord. 21-05, 7-13-2021)
10-9A-12-6: FRONT SETBACK:
All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set back not less than fifty
feet (50') from the front lot line which abuts on any existing or proposed
public street right of way. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12-7: FRONT SETBACK EXCEPTION:
The planning commission can approve an adjustment to the front setback of not
less than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line abutting a street if it is
demonstrated that by doing so sensitive areas such as steep slopes, ridgelines,
drainage areas, or wildlife corridors would be preserved. A forty five foot
(45') clear zone at the corner of a road intersection is still required. (Ord.
08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12-8: SIDE SETBACK:
All dwellings and other main buildings, including any attached garage or
similar structure, shall have side setbacks of thirty feet (30') or greater
from any side property line. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-12-9: REAR SETBACK:
All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set back thirty feet (30') or
greater from the rear lot line. On corner lots for a garage that is attached to
the rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for the garage may be
reduced to twenty feet (20') or greater from the rear lot line. No living area
can be included within the garage footprint in the reduced area. (Ord. 08-4, 2-
26-2008)
10-9A-12-10: LOT REQUIREMENT TABLE:
Lot size          40,000 square feet or greater
Lot frontage      150 feet
Front setback     50 feet
Front exception   20 feet
Side setback      30 feet
Rear setback      30 feet
Building envelope 4,000 square feet minimum
Envelope slope    50 percent under 20 percent slope
 
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13: STREET DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
The varying slopes within the HR-1 zone make road designs complicated at best.
As with other requirements of the zone, minimal impact to the current slopes,
ravines, drainages, wildlife corridors, and vegetation is required. These
roadway regulations are required within all developments of the HR-1 zone.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-1: ACCESS:
Each lot shall front upon and have direct access to a designated city street.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-2: IMPROVEMENT REQUIRED:
All existing public streets and all streets proposed to be dedicated to the
public shall be improved in accordance with city standards for public streets.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-3: ROAD GRADE:
No street shall have a grade of more than eight percent (8%), except that the
planning commission may approve up to a ten percent (10%) grade for short
straight stretches of roadway under three hundred feet (300') in length. The
commission must conclude that the eight percent (8%) standard would result in
undesirable extra earthwork or circuitous routes and that the proposed steep
grade section will not result in the establishment of a hazardous condition. It
is the responsibility of the developer to present evidence that the additional
allowance in grade is desirable. The city engineer and fire chief shall provide
recommendation regarding hazardous conditions and any other concerns on the
proposed steep grade sections. It must also be demonstrated that for dead end
or temporary stubbed streets constructed on grades over eight percent (8%),
that the road shall not be constructed in a manner that would make adjacent
future development be out of compliance with the three hundred foot (300')
requirement. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-4: TRAVERSING TEN PERCENT SLOPES:
Roads proposed to cross slopes greater than ten percent (10%) are allowed if
proof that such road will be built with the preservation and mitigation of
environmental impacts to drainages, ravines, steep slopes of twenty percent
(20%) or greater, ridgelines, fault lines, and wildlife corridors. The road
design must follow the contour of the land to preserve the natural character of
the land, and be screened with trees or vegetation. Cutting and filling is
minimized and must be stabilized and revegetated to a natural state within the
two (2) year durability time period. The planning commission and city engineer
must approve a revegetation/retention plan. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-5: TRAVERSING THIRTY PERCENT SLOPES:
Roads that cross slopes greater than thirty percent (30%) must be approved by
the planning commission and the city engineer; they must conclude that such
roads will meet the regulations regarding cuts and fills and that such cuts and
fills along with the placement of the road will not have adverse visual or
safety impacts. Screening of cuts and fills with vegetation or other means can
be required by the planning commission to minimize visual scarring. A segment
of a road can cross short stretches of thirty percent (30%) or greater slopes
for up to one hundred feet (100') in length. The planning commission can grant
an exception to the one hundred foot (100') rule up to three hundred feet
(300') if it is demonstrated that there are no other alternatives for the
placement of the road. A road crossing these slopes must provide access to a
larger developable area. No road can cross slopes greater than forty percent
(40%). (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-6: INTERSECTION GRADE:
The maximum grade of intersecting roads shall be a four percent (4%) grade
extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') on each leg of the intersection.
The planning commission can make an exception and allow a three percent (3%)
grade extended a minimum of fifty feet (50') on each leg of the intersection if
the developer demonstrates that the four percent (4%) base requirement cannot
adhere to the cut and fill standards in section
10-9A-13-7 of this article. Grade shall be measured from the edge of the
asphalt of the intersecting roadway to the nearest grade break/vertical curve.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-7: CUTS AND FILLS:
No road providing access to a lot shall be constructed in a location or in such
a manner that results in the creation of a slope arch exceeding the critical
angle of repose or a disturbed cross section which exceeds the cut and fill
slope standards for streets in the city. Cut or fill slopes shall be no steeper
than two feet (2') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical and shall be designed
with acceptable erosion control systems. An erosion control system is generally
composed of a combination of long term nondegradable erosion mat, structural
geogrid and/or geotextile. The maximum combined cut or fill allowed at any
point of a road section shall be limited to thirty feet (30') with the maximum
of twenty feet (20') in height on one side of the roadway. Retaining walls can
only be fifteen feet (15') for a cut and fifteen feet (15') for a fill at any
place in the road cross section. Any retaining wall associated with a road that
extends outside of the standard road right of way area shall be dedicated to
the city as part of the road system. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-8: STABILIZATION AND REVEGETATION:
All disturbed cut and fill slope areas shall be stabilized and revegetated. The
submittal materials for the preliminary plat shall include a detailed
revegetation/retention plan showing the intended revegetation and retention
treatment for all cut and fill slope areas of roads and the performance
guarantee amounts shall include their costs. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-9: CUL-DE-SACS:
All cul-de-sacs shall conform to section
10-15C-5, "Cul-De-Sacs", of this title. (Ord. 16-2, 8-23-2016)
10-9A-13-10: THROUGH ROADS:
The road system shall conform to the city master transportation plan. Driveway
access to arterial and major collector roads should be limited. For traffic
calming purposes, local streets should be short in length to promote livable
neighborhoods. Major roads on the city master transportation plan shall not be
longer than two thousand feet (2,000') in length without an intersecting
street; local roads shall not be longer than one thousand feet (1,000'). If
terrain features require a longer street, the planning commission can grant an
exception to the distance requirement. Pedestrian connectivity to open space
areas, public facilities, trails and adjacent cul-de-sacs must be provided.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-13-11: SECONDARY ACCESS:
All development in the HR-1 hillside residential 1 zone shall have more than
one access route which provides simultaneous access for emergency equipment and
civilian evacuation. The design of access routes shall take into consideration
traffic circulation and provide for looping of roads as required to ensure at
least two (2) access points. Looped roads with a single access are not allowed.
   A.   Specifications: All roads shall conform with the city development code,
subsection
10-15C-2A of this title, streets and roads. (Ord. 11-7, 8-9-2011, eff. 8-10-
2011)
10-9A-14: CONCEPT PLAN:
Conceptual work done before the extensive work needed to gain preliminary plat
approval can guide the applicant in a direction that can help make development
layout better, obtain approvals in a timely manner, and be overall less
expensive. A concept plan is not required but is highly recommended. (Ord. 08-
4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-14-1: APPLICATION AND FEE:
The concept stage does not require an application or fee. There are recommended
guidelines that can be followed to help give the planning commission enough
detail to adequately review a concept proposal. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-14-2: VESTING:
Since a concept plan is not required, projects are not vested at concept. Any
advice or direction given by staff or the planning commission shall not be
construed as an approval. If needed, the concept stage is the appropriate time
to adjust the development code if needed to create a better project. (Ord. 08-
4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-14-3: SENSITIVE AREAS PLAN:
A full sensitive areas plan is not required in the concept stage, but it is
recommended that a cursory plan be done to aid in designing the concept plan
layout. See section
10-9A-15-3 of this article for the requirements of a sensitive areas plan.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-14-4: STAFF REVIEW:
City staff as part of the technical review committee will review the concept
plan and make comments that can guide the applicant to design a development
that meets the HR-1 zone intent and regulations. Multiple reviews can occur.
Staff review shall occur prior to a public meeting and planning commission
review. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-14-5: NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING:
A neighborhood meeting is recommended to be held with the neighboring property
owners and others nearby that could be affected by the development. This
meeting is informal and can occur during a planning commission work session.
This is an opportunity to gauge public sentiment and garner ideas that might
help form a better development. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-14-6: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
After staff reviews and any public meetings, the planning commission shall
review in a work session the revised concept plan and give comments to the
applicant that can help guide the development to meet the intent of the HR-
1 zone and its regulations. Additional reviews and a field trip to the site may
occur. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15: PRELIMINARY PLAT AND REQUIRED PLANS:
A preliminary plat is required and is the first official step toward gaining
approvals of a development. With the plat being preliminary in nature, larger
developments and those being proposed on unique terrains can require multiple
renditions of the plat as prescribed by staff and the planning commission.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-1: APPLICATION AND FEE:
The preliminary plat stage requires an application and fee. Listed on the
application are the requirements that must be met to have a complete
application along with the fee schedule. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-2: VESTING:
Once an application is found complete and all fees paid, an applicant is vested
with all applicable development codes and standards. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-3: SENSITIVE AREAS PLAN:
The sensitive areas plan shall use as a base an aerial map showing the
nondisturbed conditions that exist prior to any grading or construction. The
map shall outline the current vegetative conditions including clusters or
groves of trees. It shall also illustrate natural features including ravines,
drainages, steep slopes, ridgelines, fault lines, wildlife habitat corridors,
unique soil features such as collapsible soil, rock features, etc. Proposed
lots, building envelopes, roads, trails, and open space areas shall be overlaid
on the map. The plan shall be submitted and approved by the planning commission
prior to the submittal of the preliminary plat. The commission can require
redesigns of lots, roads, and other development features to better implement
the intent of this code. Data from the sensitive areas plan shall be used to
develop the preliminary plat by locating areas that should be preserved to meet
the intent and regulations of the HR-1 zone. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-4: SLOPE ANALYSIS PLAN:
A slope analysis plan shall be submitted in conjunction with the sensitive
areas plan and prior to the submittal of the preliminary plat. The slope
analysis shall show contour lines at two foot (2') intervals. It will also
identify by color slopes under fifteen percent (15%), fifteen percent (15%) to
nineteen percent (19%), twenty percent (20%) to twenty nine percent (29%),
thirty percent (30%) to thirty nine percent (39%) and forty percent (40%) and
above. Proposed lots, building envelopes, roads, trails, and open space areas
shall be shown on the map. The slope analysis shall aid the applicant, staff,
and the planning commission in determining that the intent and regulations of
the HR-1 zone are met. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The preliminary plat shall delineate the location of designated setback areas,
the building envelope, areas of cuts and fills, retention, open space areas,
and conform to the requirements set forth in chapter 15, article B of this
title. A revegetation/retention plan, erosion control plan, and geotechnical
report are required to be submitted and approved with the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-6: REVEGETATION/RETENTION PLAN:
A revegetation/retention plan shall be submitted as part of the preliminary
plat. The revegetation/retention plan shall show all areas that will be
disturbed, retained and revegetated. These areas include roads, utility
corridors, firebreaks, trails, or other proposed work that require cut and/or
fills, any grading or retention. The plan shall show designated storage areas
of debris, dirt, and topsoil. The plan shall detail where vegetation will be
removed and replaced and the types of vegetation to be planted. Disturbed areas
must be revegetated with indigenous plants before any bonds are returned by the
city. Detail of how vegetation will be established shall be listed. Also shown
are all cuts and fills and retention wall depths, slope, and height. A licensed
civil engineer shall endorse the plan. The city engineer and planning
commission must approve the plan. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-7: EROSION CONTROL PLAN:
An erosion control plan shall be submitted as a part of the preliminary plat.
The erosion control plan shall detail how runoff will be controlled to avoid
flooding problems on neighboring properties and how erosion will be controlled
and how construction debris and silts will not be collected by the storm water
system during construction. It will also detail how erosion will be managed in
cut and/or fill areas. The city engineer and planning commission must approve
the plan. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-8: PRELIMINARY GEOTECHNICAL REPORT:
A preliminary geotechnical report shall be completed and submitted as a part of
the preliminary plat. The report shall consider and address all recommendations
in any reports prepared by the Utah geological survey (UGS) in relation to the
subject property. If no prior reports have been prepared, the applicant shall
consult with the appropriate UGS official, obtain comments addressing the
geologic conditions affecting the area, and provide those comments. If unsafe
geologic conditions that may affect the property and the probability that those
conditions will detrimentally impact the proposed development or surrounding
properties within fifty (50) years from the date of the statement, the
environmental impact of the proposed action, including a projected "worst case
scenario" of the detrimental effects the proposed action or development may
have on the safety and environmental stability of the property and adjacent
properties shall be required. Any adverse environmental effects that cannot be
avoided, should the proposal be implemented, as well as alternatives to the
development to avoid any unsafe geologic conditions, shall be documented. The
geotechnical report shall be stamped and signed by a licensed professional
geotechnical engineer registered in the state of Utah with experience in
preparing and rendering geotechnical reports. The city can require that the
report undergo a peer review by a separate engineering firm selected by the
city at the applicant's expense. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-9: STAFF REVIEW:
City staff as part of the technical review committee will review the
preliminary plat and its associated plans and reports and make comments that
can guide the applicant to a development that meets the HR-1 zone intent and
regulations. Multiple reviews can occur. Staff review shall occur prior to the
public hearing and planning commission review. Staff shall make recommendations
to the planning commission stating the general plan, city code, and the
development standards to support their recommendations. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-10: PUBLIC HEARING:
A public hearing shall be held with the neighboring property owners in
accordance with subsection
10-11F-4D of this title. This is a formal meeting. Concerns and comments from
the public shall be taken. Staff and/or the commission shall address any
comments that cite code violations or health, safety, and welfare concerns.
Comments from this hearing can aid the applicant, staff, and the commission to
address design elements of the development. (Ord. 11-01, 4-12-2011, eff. 6-9-
2011)
10-9A-15-11: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
After staff reviews and comments from the public hearing have been addressed,
the planning commission shall review the preliminary plat and associated plans
and reports. The commission can require adjustments to the building envelope,
roadways, open space areas, and other elements of the development that better
accommodate the natural conditions present and ensure that location or
construction of such elements will not result in the creation of an adverse or
unsafe condition. The commission shall conclude that the development will
accomplish and preserve the intent and regulations of the zone. (Ord. 08-4, 2-
26-2008)
10-9A-15-12: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
The commission can approve, approve with conditions, or deny the plat giving
findings drawn from the general plan, city codes, and development standards.
The motion shall be sent to the city council with the recommendation and
findings from the commission. If the commission finds that the plat is not
ready to be forwarded to the council, the commission can table the plat
requiring the applicant to supply additional information or make changes. (Ord.
08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-15-13: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The city council can approve, approve with additional conditions, or deny the
plat basing their decision on the planning commission recommendations and their
findings. If the council denies or significantly changes the plat, it shall be
sent back to the planning commission for additional work. Significant changes
shall include adding or subtracting five (5) or more building lots, adding
development to sensitive lands (slopes over 20 percent, drainages, ravines,
ridgelines, sensitive soils, fault lines, wildlife corridors), changes to open
space, or changes that require additional engineering work. Additional public
hearings could be required. Once a preliminary plat is approved, the developer
has one year to gain final approval. If final approval is not obtained within
the one year period, the plat approval and vesting shall be void. (Ord. 08-4,
2-26-2008)
10-9A-16: FINAL PLAT:
A final plat is required and is the last official step toward gaining approvals
of a development. Changes to the preliminary plat should be minimal. (Ord. 08-
4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-16-1: APPLICATION AND FEE:
The final plat stage requires an application and fee. Listed on the application
are the requirements that must be met to have a complete application and the
fee schedule. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-16-2: FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The final plat shall conform to the city development standards. (Ord. 08-4, 2-
26-2008)
10-9A-16-3: FINAL GEOTECHNICAL REPORT:
All projects require a final geotechnical report. The geotechnical report shall
be stamped and signed by a licensed professional engineer registered in the
state of Utah with experience in preparing and rendering geotechnical reports.
The report shall include as a minimum the following: field investigation;
description and classification of site soils including boring and pit logs;
depth to ground water if applicable; depth to bedrock if applicable;
suitability of site soils for proposed project improvements including
foundations; identification of expansive/collapsible soils and remedial action
if required; liquefaction potential and remedial action if required; hazardous
geologic conditions not accounted for or identified in the preliminary
geotechnical report such as unstable soils, faults, etc.; stability of natural
slopes; slope and retaining recommendations for graded slopes; soil weights,
loads, and allowable bearing pressures; soil preparation recommendations;
seismic recommendations, subgrade and pavement recommendations; other
recommendations applicable to the project site. This report shall be completed
and approved by staff prior to planning commission review of the final plat.
The city can require that the report undergo a peer review by a separate
engineering firm selected by the city at the applicant's expense. The
geotechnical report shall be stamped and signed by a licensed professional
geotechnical engineer registered in the state of Utah with experience in
preparing and rendering geotechnical reports. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-16-4: PUBLIC MEETING:
A public hearing is not required for the final plat though staff or the
planning commission can decide to hold one if substantial changes from the
preliminary plat would require additional comment. If a second hearing is not
desired, the planning commission meeting where the final plat shall be reviewed
is a public meeting. Staff can require an applicant to notify residents and
landowners in the area of the meeting where the final plat shall be reviewed.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-16-5: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW/ACTION:
The commission can approve, approve with conditions, or deny the plat giving
findings drawn from the general plat, city codes, and development standards.
The motion shall be sent to the city council with the recommendation and
findings from the commission. If the commission deems that the plat is not
ready to be forwarded to the council, the commission can table the plat
requiring the applicant to supply additional information or make changes. (Ord.
08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-16-6: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The city council can approve, approve with additional conditions, or deny the
plat basing their decision on the planning commission recommendations and their
findings. If the council denies or significantly changes the plat, it shall be
sent back to the planning commission for additional work. Once a final plat is
approved, the developer has six (6) months to record the development with the
county. If the final plat is not recorded with the county within the six (6)
month period, the plat approval and vesting shall be void. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-
2008)
10-9A-16-7: GRADING PERMIT:
No grading, filling or excavation of any kind shall commence on land within the
HR-1 zone without the developer first having obtained a grading permit. A
revegetation/retention plan, endorsed by a licensed civil engineer, must be
approved by the city engineer and planning commission prior to preliminary plat
approval. A grading permit for subdivisions shall not be issued and shall not
become active until the proposed development has final plat approval, all fees
have been paid, and the bonding has been posted, guaranteeing the construction
of all uncompleted required improvements. Areas outside of approved grading
areas shall be cordoned off with nylon fencing or equivalent during the grading
and construction process and shall not be disturbed. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-17: GRADING OF INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT:
All grading, removal of natural vegetation and retention on building lots
requires a revegetation/retention plan and a grading permit. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-
2008)
10-9A-17-1: BUILDING WITH THE NATURAL TERRAIN:
The intent of the HR-1 zone is to construct with the natural terrain. All
structures should be built using the current natural terrain configuration.
Some grading can be approved it if is demonstrated that it is needed for
safety, erosion control, or that the alternative is less desirable. Dwellings
on the down slope side of a road should utilize the natural slope while
designing the grade around the structure to drain away from it. Using fill to
raise the finished grade around a structure to rise above a road is prohibited.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-17-2: REVEGETATION/RETENTION PLAN:
A revegetation/retention plan is required for each lot prior to any removal of
vegetation or the issuance of a grading permit. The plan shall illustrate all
areas proposed for removal of vegetative materials and retention. Revegetation
of indigenous hardwood trees and grasses is required for areas of cuts and
fills, around retention walls, and areas where previous activities have
disturbed natural conditions. Areas requiring retention over four feet (4')
will require the plan to be approved by a licensed civil engineer. The city
engineer and planning commission shall approve the revegetation/retention plan.
(Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-17-3: REMOVAL OF NATURAL VEGETATION:
Natural vegetation including indigenous hardwood trees can be removed from the
portions of the lot to be committed to the dwelling, driveway, retention walls,
firebreaks and areas required to be cleared as described within the urban
interface area requirements (section
9-3-9 of the city code). Once these areas are cleared, seventy five percent
(75%) of the remaining hardwood trees shall remain on the property. Areas with
slopes twenty percent (20%) or greater that are not a part of an approved
building envelope, ravines, drainages, and wildlife corridors shall remain in a
natural state. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-17-4: CUTS AND FILLS:
Cut or fill slopes shall be no steeper than two feet (2') horizontal to one
foot (1') vertical and shall be designed with acceptable erosion control
systems. An erosion control system is generally composed of a combination of
long term nondegradable erosion mat, structural geogrid and/or geotextile. The
maximum cumulative cut or fill allowed on a lot is fifteen feet (15'). (Ord.
08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-17-5: GRADING PERMIT:
No grading, filling or excavation of any kind shall commence on land within the
HR-1 zone without first having obtained a grading permit. A revegetation/
retention plan, endorsed by a licensed civil engineer, must be approved by the
city engineer and planning commission. A grading permit is required for each
individual lot prior to a building permit being issued. Areas outside of
approved grading areas shall be cordoned off with nylon fencing or equivalent
during the grading and construction process and shall not be disturbed. (Ord.
08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-18: DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
Each dwelling within any development in the HR-1 zone shall conform to the
following requirements. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-18-1: BUILDING ENVELOPE:
All buildings shall be constructed within the building envelope. The building
envelope is identified on the approved subdivision plat and is located on the
lot detailing the front, side and rear setback requirements. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-
2008)
10-9A-18-2: RAMBLER DWELLINGS:
For dwelling size requirements, see supplemental regulations, section
10-12-41 of this title. (Ord. 12-8, 12-11-2012)
10-9A-18-3: MULTI-STORY DWELLINGS:
For dwelling size requirements, see supplemental regulations, section
10-12-41 of this title. (Ord. 12-8, 12-11-2012)
10-9A-18-4: MINIMUM DIMENSION:
The minimum width or length of any dwelling as measured from the outside wall
shall be a minimum of twenty four feet (24'). Nonliving spaces such as garages,
porches and sheds shall not be included in determining compliance with this
requirement. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-18-5: HEIGHT OF BUILDING:
The maximum height of any dwelling shall be thirty six feet (36') as measured
from the highest point of finished grade of the ground surface adjacent to the
foundation of the structure to the top of the roofline. The minimum height of a
building used as a dwelling shall be not less than eight feet (8'). Chimneys,
flagpoles, television antennas and similar ancillary structures not used for
human occupancy shall be excluded in determining height; provided, that no such
ancillary structure shall extend to a height in excess of fifteen feet (15')
above the building. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-18-6: CONFORMANCE WITH SPECIAL DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the requirements herein set forth, all dwellings shall conform
to the special provisions relating to dwellings set forth under section
10-12-27 of this title. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-18-7: DWELLING OCCUPANCY LIMIT:
The number of unrelated individuals residing in a dwelling unit shall not
exceed four (4). (Ord. 13-2, 2-12-2013)
10-9A-19: OFF STREET PARKING AND DRIVEWAYS:
All dwellings within the HR-1 zone shall adhere to the following parking and
driveway requirements. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-19-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required for each
dwelling unit and additionally for each accessory dwelling. Each off street
parking space shall be not less than ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') per
space and shall not be located within any portion of a front or side setback
area adjacent to a street. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-19-2: GARAGE:
A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces shall be enclosed within a
garage. A minimum of one off street parking space shall be enclosed within a
garage for an accessory dwelling. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-19-3: REVERSE SLOPE DRIVEWAYS:
No driveway providing access to a garage or off street parking area within a
lot shall have a down slope grade from the adjacent street to the garage or
covered off street parking area except when approved by the planning
commission. The planning commission may approve a down slope driveway upon
finding that any drainage of surface water will be adequately diverted from
entry into the dwelling, garage or other covered parking area and that the
proposed diversion treatment will not impact adjacent properties. (Ord. 08-4,
2-26-2008)
10-9A-19-4: DRIVEWAY GRADE:
Any driveway providing access to a building envelope shall have a slope of not
more than twelve percent (12%) at any point. A driveway grade up to fifteen
percent (15%) is allowed if heated. Construction of a driveway shall not result
in any cut or fill slopes greater than seven feet (7'). Any cut or fill between
five feet (5') and seven feet (7') shall be subject to planning commission
approval and shall be retained. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
10-9A-20: FENCING:
Fencing requirements will conform to the standards listed in section
10-12-13 of this title. Additionally, to preserve drainage and wildlife
corridors, no fence shall be constructed on ravines, drainages, open space
areas, and slopes of twenty percent (20%) or greater. (Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008)
ARTICLE B. CE-2 CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-9B-1: Legislative Intent
10-9B-2: Permitted Uses
10-9B-3: Conditional Uses
10-9B-4: Area And Width
10-9B-5: Access
10-9B-6: Location
10-9B-7: Utilities
10-9B-8: Dwellings And Accessory Buildings
10-9B-9: Special Provisions
10-9B-10: Streets And Roads
10-9B-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The CE-2 Zone consists of the more mountainous areas of the City which,
because of the presence of steep slopes, unique soil characteristics, wildfire
hazards or similar natural conditions are considered environmentally sensitive.
   B.   It is declared that the intent and purpose of the City Council in
establishing the CE-2 Zone is to:
      1.   Delineate the environmentally sensitive areas of the City.
      2.   Establish minimum standards and guidelines for the use of land
within the zone and development activities occurring thereon which recognize
and balance: a) the need to sustain and promote the preservation of the natural
environmental conditions in the area; b) the need for mitigating potential
unsafe and adverse conditions in the area and avoid the creation of hazards
from flood, fire and other natural conditions; c) the rights of property owners
to the reasonable use and enjoyment of their land; and d) the need to otherwise
preserve a healthy and safe living environment for the present and future
occupants of the zone and adjacent territories. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
   C.   Characteristic of the uses in the zone are single-family dwellings on
five (5) acre or larger lots in naturalistic settings, situated in those
portions of the zone which are most suitable for development activity
interspersed with large undisturbed open space areas. Development clustering in
these areas is encouraged through the use of the Planned Mountain Home
Development (MHD) standards listed in chapter 11, article F of this title.
(Ord. 06-9, 5-23-2006, eff. 6-14-2006; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
   D.   Each development area and each lot or building site within a
development area are to be located only on lands having a demonstrated physical
suitability for accommodating housing and other permitted development activity.
All dwellings and other uses are to be constructed under conditions which will
safely and adequately accommodate the needs of both part time and permanent
occupants of the area. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-9B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted upon
compliance with the conditions set forth in this title:
Home occupations subject to the provisions of section
10-12-17 of this title.
Livestock grazing.
Non-livestock and livestock animals specifically listed in section
10-18-5, table 10-18-B of this title.
Orchards and field crops.
Residential facilities for persons with a disability pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated.
Residential facilities for the elderly pursuant to Utah Code Annotated.
Single-family residential dwellings.
Utility transmission projects, minor. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-9B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land may be permitted
conditional uses upon compliance with the provisions of this title and after
approval shall have been given from the designated review agency:
Accessory apartments (see section
10-12-29 of this title for requirements).
Water, sewer and utility transmission lines and facilities required as an
incidental part of development within the zone, and subject to the approval of
a site plan in accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-19 of this title.
Wells, water storage tanks and similar facilities and structures when owned and
operated by a public agency. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-9B-4: AREA AND WIDTH:
The minimum area and width requirements for a zoning lot, except when located
within a Planned Mountain Home Development, shall be as follows:
 
Use                     Minimum Area Minimum Width
                                     (At Minimum Setback Line)
Single-family dwellings 5 acres      200 feet
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
10-9B-5: ACCESS:
Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a City maintained street
which is shown on the official street map or which has been formally accepted
by action of the City Council. The distance of said abutting side shall be not
less than the minimum lot width requirement of the zone, except that the length
of said abutting side may be reduced to not less than eighty feet (80') when
the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or sharp curve in a designated City street and
the side lot lines radiate in such a manner that the width of the lot, measured
between the side lot lines at points one hundred sixty feet (160') from the
front lot line, will meet or exceed the minimum width requirements of the zone.
(Ord. 08-9, 7-8-2008)
10-9B-6: LOCATION:
All buildings shall be set back in accordance with the following setback
requirements, except that where the building is to be located upon a lot in an
approved Planned Mountain Home Development showing a building setback envelope
on the final plat, the building shall be located in accordance with the plat:
   A.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings and structures
shall be set back in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback: All dwellings and other structures shall be set back
not less than fifty feet (50') from the front lot line; provided, that on lots
qualifying as a cul-de-sac lot under the provisions of section
10-9B-5 of this article, the required front setback shall be the distance from
the front lot line at which the minimum width requirements are met, but not
less than fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 08-9, 7-8-2008)
      2.   Side And Rear Setback: All dwellings and other structures shall be
set back not less than fifty feet (50') from the side or rear lot line.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall be set back not less
than fifty feet (50') from any lot line which abuts upon a street and not less
than ten feet (10') from any interior lot line. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-9B-7: UTILITIES:
All dwellings and other structures used for human occupancy shall be served by
the City's culinary water and sanitary sewer system or other approved system in
accordance with the provisions of section 10-12-21 of this title, and also
electric, natural gas and telephone utilities. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-9B-8: DWELLINGS AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Area Of Dwellings: Refer to section
10-12-41, "Dwelling Size Requirements For Residential Zones", of this title.
   B.   Minimum Dimension: The minimum width or length dimension of any
dwelling as measured from the outside wall shall be not less than twenty four
feet (24'). Nonliving spaces such as garages, porches and sheds shall not be
included in determining compliance with this requirement.
   C.   Off Street Parking:
      1.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required
for each dwelling unit. Each off street parking space shall be not less than
ten feet by twenty feet (10'x20') per space and shall not be located within any
portion of a front or side setback area adjacent to a street.
      2.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces appurtenant to a
dwelling shall be enclosed within a garage.
   D.   Unrelated Residents: The number of unrelated individuals residing in a
dwelling unit shall not exceed four (4). (Ord. 13-2, 2-12-2013)
10-9B-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Buildable Area: Each lot shall contain at least one area of not less
than four thousand (4,000) square feet which qualifies as a "buildable area",
as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title. Said buildable area shall be readily accessible from a
public street over a private driveway having a slope not greater than seven
feet (7'). Any cut or fill slope greater than five feet (5') shall be subject
to approval by both the planning commission and city council. (Ord. 98-5-26-6,
6-26-1998)
   B.   Mountain Home Development; Buildable Area Designated: Where the lot is
situated within an approved planned mountain home development, for which the
buildable area has been previously designated on the plat, said designated area
shall be construed as the buildable area.
   C.   Site Plan Requirements: The site plan required shall delineate the
location of the territory qualifying as buildable area or the designated
buildable area as shown on the final plat of the planned mountain home
development, where applicable (see section
10-11F-7 of this title), and also the alignment of the proposed driveway
access. All dwellings and other habitable structures and accessory buildings
shall be located within the buildable area. For purposes of determining
compliance herewith, no territory having a natural slope of thirty percent
(30%) or greater which has been graded or altered shall be considered as part
of the buildable area.
   D.   Review By Planning Commission: The planning commission shall review the
site plan, the recommendations of the city engineer and any technical reports
submitted in connection with a request for adjustment of the standards or
criteria of this development code, and shall approve the application only upon
a finding that:
      1.   All the plan submissions necessary for an adequate review and
decision shall have been submitted and in a form suitable for evaluation by the
city.
      2.   The plan conforms, in all respects, to applicable city requirements,
standards and criteria; provided, however, in the course of performing the site
plan review the planning commission may approve minor adjustments to the
specific standards (i.e., inclusion of incidental areas of steep slope as part
of the buildable area, closer setbacks), upon a finding that the requested
adjustment is incidental, the supporting data provides adequate justification
for the adjustment and that granting the adjustment will not be inimical to the
intent of the standard or the purpose of the zone.
      3.   The location and arrangement of the buildings, roadways, open areas
and other elements of the development duly recognize and accommodate the
natural conditions present and construction of such elements will not result in
the creation of an adverse or unsafe condition.
      4.   The development will accomplish and preserve the intent of the zone.
The city may require changes in the plan in order to more fully accomplish the
intent of the zone. Such changes may include, but are not limited to,
adjustments in the boundaries of the buildable area and changes in the location
of roadways, structures, drainfields and similar elements. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-
1997)
   E.   Grading Permit: No grading, filling or excavation of any kind shall be
commenced on land within the zone without first having obtained a grading
permit from the city and signed by the city engineer, who shall not issue such
permit until a grading plan, endorsed by a licensed civil engineer, shall have
been approved by the planning commission. All land surface having a slope of
twenty percent (20%) or greater shall remain in its natural state and shall not
be graded or otherwise disturbed except for the planting of additional
vegetation, the addition of sprinkler irrigation systems, the establishment of
required firebreaks or access easements, or when such disturbance is
specifically provided for under an approved site plan. A grading permit shall
not be issued and shall not become active until the proposed development has
reached final approval status, all fees have been paid, and the bonding has
been posted, guaranteeing the construction of all uncompleted required
improvements. (Ord. 07-5, 4-10-2007)
   F.   Removal Of Natural Vegetative Material: Natural vegetative material
shall not be removed except for those portions of the site to be committed to
the dwelling and attendant yard area, required roadways, driveways and for
firebreaks. All areas proposed for removal of vegetative materials shall be
shown on the site plan, and shall conform to the requirements of the city's
urban/wildlife interface ordinance (title 9, chapter 3 of this code).
   G.   Dwellings Conform: All dwellings shall conform to the special
provisions relating to dwellings set forth under section
10-12-27 of this title. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-9B-10: STREETS AND ROADS:
   A.   Access: Each lot shall front upon and have direct access to a
designated city street.
   B.   Improvement Required: All existing public streets and all streets
proposed to be dedicated to the public shall be improved in accordance with
city standards for public streets.
   C.   Grade: No major collector/arterial street shall have a grade of more
than eight percent (8%) and no local street shall have a grade of more than ten
percent (10%), except that the city council may approve up to an additional two
percent (2%) grade for short stretches of roadway where, in its opinion, the
eight percent (8%)/ten percent (10%) standard would result in undesirable extra
earthwork or circuitous routes and that the proposed steep grade section will
not result in the establishment of a hazardous condition. It is the
responsibility of the developer to present evidence that the additional
allowance in grade is desirable. The city engineer shall provide recommendation
regarding hazardous conditions and any other concerns on the proposed steep
grade sections.
      1.   Roads that cross slopes greater than thirty percent (30%) must be
reviewed by the planning commission and the city engineer; they must conclude
that such streets or roads will not have significant adverse visual,
environmental, or safety impacts.
      2.   Streets and roads proposed to cross slopes greater than ten percent
(10%) are allowed, subject to the following:
         a.   Proof that such street and/or road will be built with minimum
environmental damage (see subsection F of this section) and within acceptable
public safety parameters.
         b.   Such street and road design follows contour lines to preserve the
natural character of the land, and are screened with trees or vegetation.
      3.   Cutting and filling is minimized and must be stabilized and
revegetated to a natural state within the first year of the two (2) year
durability time period. A stabilization and revegetation plan must be approved
by the planning commission and city engineer.
   D.   Intersection Grade: The maximum grade of intersecting roads shall be
either four percent (4%) and extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') on
each leg of the intersection, or three percent (3%) and extended a minimum of
fifty feet (50') on each leg of the intersection. Grade shall be measured from
the edge of the asphalt of the intersecting roadway to the nearest grade break/
vertical curve.
   E.   Slope: No street providing access to a lot shall be constructed in a
location or in such a manner which results in the creation of a slope arch
exceeding the critical angle of repose or a disturbed cross section which
exceeds the cut and fill slope standards for streets in the city. Any driveway
providing access to a buildable area shall have a slope of not more than twelve
percent (12%) and shall not result in any cut or fill slopes greater than seven
feet (7'). Any cut or fill between five feet (5') and seven feet (7') shall be
subject to planning commission approval.
   F.   Stabilization And Revegetation: All disturbed cut and fill slope areas
shall be stabilized and revegetated. The submittal materials for any plat plan
shall include a detailed revegetation plan showing the intended revegetation
treatment for all cut and fill slope areas of streets and the performance
guarantees amounts shall include the cost of revegetation. (Ord. 07-3, 2-27-
2007)
ARTICLE C. CE-3 CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-9C-1: Legislative Intent
10-9C-2: Minimize Impacts
10-9C-3: Mitigation
10-9C-4: Property Rights
10-9C-5: Location And Design
10-9C-6: Permitted And Conditional Uses
10-9C-6-1: Permitted Uses
10-9C-6-2: Conditional Uses
10-9C-7: Natural Hazards
10-9C-8: Protection And Conservation
10-9C-9: Subdivision Design And Environmental Constraints
10-9C-9-1: Sensitive Area Determination
10-9C-9-2: Ravines And Drainages
10-9C-9-3: Ridgelines
10-9C-9-4: Fault Lines
10-9C-9-5: Wildlife Corridors
10-9C-9-6: Unstable Soils
10-9C-9-7: Slopes Twenty Percent To Twenty Nine Percent
10-9C-9-8: Slopes Thirty Percent Or Greater
10-9C-9-9: Revegetation/Retention Plan
10-9C-10: Cuts And Fills
10-9C-11: Preserved Natural Space
10-9C-12: Unbuildable Area
10-9C-13: Open Space
10-9C-13-1: Protection Of Dedicated Open Space Or Preservation Areas
10-9C-13-2: Allowed Uses Within Open Space
10-9C-14: Trails
10-9C-15: Street Design Requirements
10-9C-15-1: Improvement Required
10-9C-15-2: Road Grade
10-9C-15-3: Stabilization And Revegetation
10-9C-15-4: Cul-De-Sacs
10-9C-15-5: Snow Removal And Storage
10-9C-15-6: Secondary Access
10-9C-15-7: Grading Permit
10-9C-16: Lot Design Requirements
10-9C-16-1: Lot Size
10-9C-16-2: Open Space Requirement
10-9C-16-3: Open Space With 60,000 Square Foot Lots
10-9C-16-4: Building Envelope
10-9C-16-5: Steeper Buildable Slopes
10-9C-16-6: Lot Frontage
10-9C-16-7: Front Setback
10-9C-16-8: Side Setback
10-9C-16-9: Rear Setback
10-9C-16-10: Lot Requirement Table
10-9C-16-11: Access
10-9C-16-12: Building With The Natural Terrain
10-9C-16-13: Grading Of Individual Building Lot
10-9C-16-14: Revegetation/Retention Plan
10-9C-16-15: Removal Of Natural Vegetation
10-9C-16-16: Cuts And Fills
10-9C-16-17: Grading Permit
10-9C-16-18: Dwelling Requirements
10-9C-16-19: Building Envelope
10-9C-16-20: Accessory Buildings
10-9C-16-21: Height Of Building
10-9C-16-22: Conformance With Special Dwelling Requirements
10-9C-16-23: Dwelling Occupancy Limit
10-9C-16-24: Off Street Parking And Driveways
10-9C-16-24-1: Off Street Parking
10-9C-16-24-2: Garage
10-9C-16-24-3: Reverse Slope Driveways
10-9C-16-24-4: Driveway Grade
10-9C-17: Fencing
10-9C-18: Subdivision Development Requirements
10-9C-18-1: Concept Plan
10-9C-18-2: Application And Fee
10-9C-18-3: Vesting
10-9C-18-4: Sensitive Areas Plan
10-9C-18-5: Staff Review
10-9C-18-6: Preliminary Plat And Required Plans
10-9C-18-7: Application And Fee
10-9C-18-8: Vesting
10-9C-18-9: Preliminary Plat Requirements
10-9C-18-9-1: Sensitive Areas Plan
10-9C-18-9-2: Slope Analysis Plan
10-9C-18-9-3: Revegetation/Retention Plan
10-9C-18-9-4: Surfacewater And Erosion Control Plan
10-9C-18-9-5: Preliminary Geotechnical Report
10-9C-18-9-6: Fire Protection Plan
10-9C-18-10: Staff Review
10-9C-18-11: Public Hearing
10-9C-18-12: Planning Commission Review
10-9C-18-13: Planning Commission Action
10-9C-18-14: City Council Review
10-9C-18-15: City Council Action
10-9C-18-16: Final Plat
10-9C-18-17: Application And Fee
10-9C-18-18: Final Plat Requirements
10-9C-18-19: Final Geotechnical Report
10-9C-18-20: Optional Public Meeting
10-9C-18-21: Planning Commission Review/Action
10-9C-18-22: City Council Review/Action
10-9C-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
The general purpose of the Critical Environment 3 (CE-3) Zone is to promote
safe, environmentally sensitive, development that balances the rights and long-
term interests of property owners and those of the general public. These
standards are intended to:
   A.   Preserve and maintain the visual and aesthetic qualities of the
foothills, canyons, and prominent ridgelines as defined herein.
   B.   Protect public health and safety by adopting standards to reduce risk
associated with natural and man-made hazards, with an emphasis on wildfire
prevention.
   C.   Provide efficient, environmentally sensitive, and safe transportation
routes of roads and trails for vehicles and pedestrians.
   D.   Incorporate parking areas at major trailheads that can also serve as
emergency staging areas.
   E.   Encourage development that conforms to the natural contours of the land
and minimizes scarring and erosion.
   F.   Minimize disturbance of existing trees and vegetation, conserve
wildlife habitat and contiguous corridors, protect aquifer recharge areas
promote revegetation with indigenous trees and plants, and otherwise preserve
environmentally sensitive natural areas.
   G.   Reduce flooding by protecting drainage channels, absorption areas and
flood plains. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-2: MINIMIZE IMPACTS:
   A.   Development must minimize impacts to the present terrain and natural
conditions.
   B.   It must be demonstrated to the planning commission and city council
that any proposed development will preserve the natural features and conditions
of the area, following the restrictions outlined on the sensitive areas map.
   C.   Roadways and building envelopes shall conform to the lay of the land as
much as possible. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-3: MITIGATION:
This code establishes the need for mitigation of potentially adverse or unsafe
conditions arising from development activities for the protection of the
interests of subsequent purchasers and occupants and adjacent landowners. (Ord.
22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-4: PROPERTY RIGHTS:
This code recognizes the rights of current owners to the reasonable use of the
developable property providing development falls within the guidelines of the
zone. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-5: LOCATION AND DESIGN:
This code facilitates the location, design, use, and construction of
development projects and building sites within the zone. Design and location
will provide safety consistent with the natural limitations and the need for
protection of the environment. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-6: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
Various activities are allowed within the CE-3 Zone. Some uses can be allowed
with conditions. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-6-1: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted within the CE-3 Zone are the standard uses allowed within the
zone. Though their use is permitted, they must be constrained to the intent and
regulations of the CE-3 Zone. Permitted uses include:
   A.   Foster care homes.
   B.   Home occupations.
   C.   Livestock grazing - must be managed to avoid stripping the land of
vegetation, creating erosion issues.
   D.   Minor utility transmission projects.
   E.   This zone has livestock rights.
   F.   Orchards and field crops.
   G.   Residential facilities for persons with a disability.
   H.   Residential facilities for the elderly.
   I.   Single-family residential dwellings, subject to the requirements set
forth in this article. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-6-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses are those that can be allowed if approved by the Planning
Commission and City Council and they meet the requirements of section
10-12-33 and
10-12-29 in the city code. It should be demonstrated that the proposed use is
in concert with the General Plan and zoning ordinances. The following can be
allowed as conditional uses:
   A.   Accessory apartments (section
10-12-29 of the city code).
   B.   Agricultural building directly associated with agricultural development
are allowed to stand alone or as an accessory building. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-7: NATURAL HAZARDS:
Development must avoid or mitigate the potential impact of natural hazards from
earthquakes, landslides, floods, fires, and similar calamities, and reduce the
extent of public involvement or expenditure in subsequent mitigation of the
adverse or unsafe conditions. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-8: PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION:
Development must protect and conserve the following:
   A.   Culinary water supply.
   B.   Watersheds/water drainage.
   C.   Vegetation.
   D.   Soil.
   E.   Wildlife habitat and contiguous corridors. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9: SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINTS:
Designing a development that conforms to the natural constraints of the terrain
and the unique geologic features of the area is a main concern for preserving
the aesthetic appearance of the open space hillside terrain, allowing wildlife
to continue to reside in the area and maintaining the safety of current and
future residents.
   A.   The development design in the CE-3 Zone shall indicate what areas shall
be left in a natural condition.
   B.   The development design will minimize impacts to the open space and
hillside terrain.
   C.   The design will incorporate an interconnected trail system for public
use, which includes trail access to natural spaces beyond the development area.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-1: SENSITIVE AREA DETERMINATION:
In designing a development an applicant must first identify the property's
sensitive environmental and aesthetic areas: steep slopes, ridgeline areas,
ravines and drainages, fault lines, unstable soils, wildlife habitat areas and
major wildlife corridors. The General Plan Sensitive Areas Map outlines areas
that should preserved and protected.
   A.   Impacts of development to these areas should be minimized or deemed
unbuildable.
   B.   A sensitive areas plan shall be required prior to the preliminary plat,
mapping all environmental constraints, and illustrating that the proposed
layout of the subdivision limits or avoids sensitive environmental and
aesthetic areas. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-2: RAVINES AND DRAINAGES:
A ravine is considered a continual low point in topography that slopes down a
hillside. A drainage is similar to a ravine but is shown on the General Plan
Sensitive Areas Map as a low point that could carry water. No building envelope
shall be within these areas.
   A.   The area thirty feet (30') from each side of the center of these
features shall be designated as preserved natural space.
   B.   All slopes twenty percent (20%) or greater and any incidental lesser
slopes interspersed within these steeper slopes, rising from ravines and
drainages, shall be designated as preserved natural space.
   C.   City staff or the Planning Commission can require a larger preserved
natural area if the drainage is wide in nature or if greater distances are
required as established by a professional geologist, geotechnical engineer, the
city engineer and the engineer of record. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-3: RIDGELINES:
A ridge is defined as an elongated crest or series of crests of a hill and a
"ridgeline" is defined as the highest elevation of a ridge running parallel
with the long axis of the ridge. Major ridgelines are identified on the city
General Plan Sensitive Areas map. No building envelope shall be within these
areas.
   A.   Any ridge or ridgeline or portion of a ridge or ridgeline with slopes
twenty percent (20%) or greater shall be designated as preserved natural space.
   B.   The preserved natural space area associated with the ridgeline will
include all slopes twenty percent (20%) or greater and any lesser slopes
interspersed within these steeper slopes.
   C.   Required preserved natural space shall also extend uphill fifty feet
(50') from the crest of the twenty percent (20%) slopes.
   D.   All structures must be set back from the crest of a slope for a minimum
of thirty feet (30') for each story and not located within of above an adverse
terrain feature. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-4: FAULT LINES:
A fault line is defined as a fracture in the earth's crust accompanied by
displacement of one side relative to the other. No building envelope shall be
located within a minimum of one hundred feet (100') of a fault line as shown on
the sensitive lands map on file, unless greater distances are required as
established by a professional geologist or geotechnical engineer registered in
the state of Utah. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-5: WILDLIFE CORRIDORS:
   A.   The area in CE-3 contains important wildlife habitat for a variety of
animals. Wildlife corridors, as identified on the Sensitive Areas map, are
designated by the state and certified as such are designated as preserved
natural space and should be preserved and protected. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-6: UNSTABLE SOILS:
No building envelope shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of an area
identified to have unstable soils that cannot be stabilized through engineering
as disclosed within a geotechnical report, unless greater distances are
required as established by the city engineer and the engineer of record. (Ord.
22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-7: SLOPES TWENTY PERCENT TO TWENTY NINE PERCENT:
   A.   All land having a slope of twenty percent to twenty-nine percent (20%-
29%) or greater shall remain in its natural state and shall not be graded, or
otherwise disturbed.
   B.   The planting of additional vegetation and/or the addition of sprinkler
irrigation systems is allowed.
   C.   Roads, trails, firebreaks, utilities, retention walls, and driveways
can traverse these areas if it is demonstrated that they adhere to cuts and
fills requirements in section 10-9C-13-5 of this article and other requirements
in this code or that by their construction other adverse conditions are
mitigated. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-8: SLOPES THIRTY PERCENT OR GREATER:
All land having a slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater shall not be
disturbed. Slopes thirty percent (30%) or greater are to be preserved in their
natural state. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-9-9: REVEGETATION/RETENTION PLAN:
   A.   A revegetation/retention plan shall be submitted as part of the
preliminary plat.
   B.   The revegetation/retention plan shall show all areas that will be
disturbed, retained and revegetated. These areas include roads, utility
corridors, firebreaks, trails, and other proposed work that requires cuts and/
or fills, any grading or retention.
   C.   The slope, height, and depth of cuts and fills and/or retention walls
shall be included.
   D.   The plan shall show designated storage areas for debris, dirt, and
topsoil.
   E.   On slopes of twenty percent (20%) or greater, manmade or natural, plant
materials with deep rooting characteristics shall be selected for revegetation,
to minimize erosion and reduce surface runoff.
   F.   The revegetation/retention plan may not include landscaping or other
elements that conflict with the approved fire protection plan.
   G.   Disturbed areas must be revegetated as outlined in the revegetation
plan before any bonds are returned by the city.
   H.   A licensed civil engineer shall endorse the plan.
   I.   The city engineer, planning commission, and city council must approve
the plan. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-10: CUTS AND FILLS:
   A.   Development is required to conform to natural terrain conditions. At
the subdivision phase, cuts and fills should only be associated with the
construction of roads, trails, utilities, or other approved activities.
   B.   Cuts, fills, and any grading to a lot should be completed at the time
individual lot development occurs in the building process.
   C.   Benching or terracing to provide additional or larger building sites is
prohibited. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-11: PRESERVED NATURAL SPACE:
Preserved natural space is defined as areas that must be left in the
undisturbed natural state. This land can be publicly or privately held.
   A.   The following areas are to be designated as preserved open space:
      1.   All ravines and drainages.
      2.   All ridgelines.
      3.   Wildlife corridors.
      4.   All slopes thirty percent (30%) or greater.
      5.   All slopes twenty to twenty nine percent (20%-29%). The following
are allowed on the twenty percent to twenty nine percent (20%-29%) slopes.
      a.   Planting of additional vegetation and or the addition of sprinkler
irrigation systems is allowed on these slopes.
      b.   Roads, trails, firebreaks, utilities, retention walls, and driveways
can traverse these areas if it is demonstrated that they adhere to cuts and
fills requirements in section 10-9C-13-5 of this article and other requirements
in this code or that by their construction other adverse conditions are
mitigated.
   B.   These areas can only be distributed for the following reasons:
      1.   Fire mitigation.
      2.   Emergency services.
      3.   To remove invasive vegetation and replace with noninvasive species.
      4.   Other reasons as approved by the city council.
   C.   Preserved natural areas shall be shown on the plat map marked as
preserved natural space.
   D.   In the event an area falls into two (2) categories the more restrictive
will govern. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-12: UNBUILDABLE AREA:
Unbuildable area is defined as land that can be privately held and that does
not have to be left in its natural state. No structures can be erected in these
areas.
   A.   The following shall be designated as unbuildable areas:
      1.   Faultline.
      2.   Unstable soils.
      3.   Building setbacks.
   B.   Unbuildable areas shall be show on the plat map marked as unbuildable.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-13: OPEN SPACE:
Open space and preserving the natural conditions are a fundamental aspect of
the CE-3 zone. Open space is defined as land preserved in its natural state,
and is designated as unbuildable, except for those uses outlined in 10-9C-12-2.
   A.   Open spaces shall be shown on the plat map marked as open space.
   B.   Open spaces must remain in the natural state unless revegetation or
retention is needed to mitigate adverse conditions due to past uses or if the
city council approves an allowed use.
   C.   The city council must approve the locations of proposed open space and
any uses within them. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-13-1: PROTECTION OF DEDICATED OPEN SPACE OR PRESERVATION AREAS:
Development in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter will result in
the dedication of open space or undeveloped preservation areas. It is the
objective of the section to ensure that these areas remain unaltered and as
intended in the establishment of this Chapter and the creation of the open
space or preservation areas in perpetuity. Therefore, prior to the approval of
any development in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, the
applicant for development approval shall prepare an open space conservation
plan. The open space conservation plan shall be submitted prior to approval of
any development proposal and shall be in addition to any other requirements of
any development ordinance of Elk Ridge City. At a minimum, the open space
conservation and shall include the following:
   A.   A legal description of each parcel proposed to be preserved as open
space, park land or otherwise left in its natural state.
   B.   The proposed ownership of the open space or park land.
   C.   The proposed method to ensure that the open space or park land will
remain in its intended state in perpetuity which may include one or more of the
following:
      1.   A deed restriction upon the property indicating the allowable uses
of the property. The deed shall be recorded in the office of the Utah County
Recorder.
      2.   A conservation easement in favor of Elk Ridge City of another
qualified not for profit agency approved by Elk Ridge City indicating the
allowable uses of the property. The conservation easement shall be recorded in
the office of the Utah County Recorder.
      3.   Dedication or ownership to Elk Ridge City or another recipient
approved by Elk Ridge City.
      4.   Dedication or recordation of a conservation easement in favor of a
qualified land trust or other organization approved by Elk Ridge City.
   D.   A maintenance plan for the open space or park land. The maintenance
plan will need to include:
      1.   The anticipated needs for and proposed method of perpetual
maintenance of the open space or park land including fencing, irrigation,
restoration, fire protection, and any other issue determined by the City
Council to be a maintenance concern.
      2.   The proposed funding mechanism necessary to complete proper
maintenance of the open space or park land.
   In an effort to protect dedicated open space or preservation areas, it is
anticipated that more than one of the strategies listed above may be employed
by the applicant. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-13-2: ALLOWED USES WITHIN OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Roads, trails, utility corridors, and driveways can traverse open space
areas if it is demonstrated that they pose a minimal impact to the area or that
by their construction other adverse conditions are mitigated.
   B.   Cuts and fills for these activities shall be revegetated and shown on
the revegetation plan.
   C.   Developed parks with lawn and Xeriscape, play equipment, picnic areas,
pavilions, or other park facilities can be interspersed within open space
areas.
   D.   Open space can be linear along road corridors to allow for trails,
sidewalks, or entrance features. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-14: TRAILS:
   A.   All proposed development in CE-3 shall be consistent with the city's
General Plan regarding trails, parks, and trail access locations. A dedication
of private land may be required for public trails if the required dedication
complies with the exaction requirements set forth in Utah Code section 17-27a-
507(1).
   B.   All land offered for dedication for trails or public access to trails
must be verified by Planning Commission and City Council before approval of the
site plan. The city has the option of rejecting the applicant's offered land
dedication if the proposed dedication does not comply with the exaction
requirements set forth in Utah Code section 17-27a-507(1), or the requirements
set forth in subsection C below. The city may suggest more suitable land for
the applicant's consideration that does comply with each of these requirements.
   C.   Land offered for dedication for trails must be located so that:
      1.   Proposed trail construction and maintenance is feasible.
      2.   Side slopes do not exceed seventy percent (70%).
      3.   Rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions are
avoided.
   D.   Trails required along roadways shown on the city trail plan shall have
a ten foot (10') easement, surfaced as described within the trail plan, in
addition to the standard street right-of-way.
   E.   In addition to trails along roadways and as part of the city trail
plan, natural trails traversing and interconnecting open space areas throughout
the development, as identified on the trails map, are required.
   F.   Trail easement connecting roads through open space to adjoining
developments, public facilities, or adjacent cul-de-sacs shall be ten feet
(10') wide and paved. The planning commission can waive the paved trail
requirement in areas that a natural trail would be more appropriate to help
preserve natural conditions.
   G.   Public parking areas at major trailheads, that can also serve as
emergency staging areas, must be included in the proposed development.
   H.   Planning Commission and City Council can determine the required surface
for each trail. (For example, but not limited to: paved, natural, gravel.)
   I.   Trails-in-lieu of sidewalks do not count towards the percentage of open
space required for clustering. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-15: STREET DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
The varying slopes within the CE-3 zone make road designs complicated at best.
As with other requirements of the zone, minimal impact to the current slopes,
ravines, drainages, wildlife corridors, and vegetation is required. These
roadway regulations are required within all developments of the CE-3 zone.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-15-1: IMPROVEMENT REQUIRED:
All roads shall conform to city code
10-15C-2 Streets and Roads. All existing public streets and all streets
proposed to be dedicated to the public shall be improved in accordance with
city standards for public streets. All roads must be compliance with the city
traffic management code. Until that code is adopted, all streets will not
exceed one thousand (1,000) vehicles per day or one hundred (100) vehicles per
hour. Study showing compliance will be paid for by the developer. (Ord. 22-07,
11-8-2022)
10-9C-15-2: ROAD GRADE:
No major collector/arterial street shall have a grade of more than ten percent
(10%) and no local street shall have a grade of more than ten percent (10%),
except that the planning commission may recommend, and the city council
approve, up to an additional two percent (2%) grade for short straight
stretches of roadway under three hundred feet (300') in length.
   A.   City staff must conclude that the ten percent (10%) standard would
result in undesirable extra earthwork or circuitous routes and that the
proposed steep grade section will not result in the establishment of a
hazardous condition. It is the responsibility of the developer to present
evidence that the additional allowance in grade is desirable.
   B.   The city engineer shall provide recommendation regarding hazardous
conditions and any other concerns on the proposed steep grade section.
   C.   It must also be demonstrated that for dead end or temporary stubbed
streets constructed on grades over ten percent (10%), that the road shall not
be constructed in a manner that would make adjacent future development be out
of compliance with the three hundred foot (300') requirement. (Ord. 22-07, 11-
8-2022)
10-9C-15-3: STABILIZATION AND REVEGETATION:
   A.   All disturbed cut and fill slope areas shall be stabilized and
revegetated.
   B.   Submitted plans for the preliminary plat shall include a general
revegetation/retention plan showing the intended revegetation and retention
treatment for all cut and fill slope areas of roads. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-15-4: CUL-DE-SACS:
All cul-de-sacs shall conform to section
10-15C-5, "Cul-De-Sacs", of the city's general code.
   A.   Cul-De-Sac Turnaround Diameter: Each cul-de-sac shall be terminated
with a turnaround or loop road of not less than one hundred fifty feet (150')
in diameter at the property line. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-15-5: SNOW REMOVAL AND STORAGE:
   A.   The road system shall be designed to accommodate snow removal and
storage. Consideration shall also be given for snow storage.
   B.   Cul-de-sacs with diameters of one hundred fifty feet (150') or greater
are required to allow for essential use of emergency equipment and service
vehicles.
   C.   Plans for snow storage are required for all roads and cul-de-sacs.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-15-6: SECONDARY ACCESS:
   A.   All development in the CE-3 Zone shall have more than one access route
which provides simultaneous access for emergency equipment and civilian
evacuation.
   B.   The design of access routes shall take into consideration traffic
circulation and provide for looping of roads as required to ensure at least two
(2) access points. Looped roads with a single access are not allowed.
   C.   Specifications: All roads shall conform with the city development code,
subsection
10-15C-2 A of this title, streets and roads. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-15-7: GRADING PERMIT:
   A.   No grading, filling or excavation of any kind shall commence on land
within the CE-3 Zone without the developer first having obtained a grading
permit.
   B.   A revegetation/retention plan, endorsed by a licensed civil engineer,
must be approved by the city engineer prior to preliminary plat approval.
   C.   A grading permit for subdivisions shall not be issued and shall not
become active until the proposed development has final plat approval, all fees
have been paid, and the bonding has been posted, guaranteeing the construction
of all uncompleted required improvements.
   D.   Areas outside of approved grading areas shall be cordoned during the
grading and construction process and shall not be disturbed. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-
2022)
10-9C-16: LOT DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
The design of lots shall conform to the environmental constraints of the
property. The size, buildable areas and frontage to city streets are explained
in this section. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-1: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Four (4) acre (160,000 square foot) and larger lots are the allowed
base density of the zone for traditional methods of development.
   B.   Lot sizes of no less than sixty thousand (60,000) square feet are
allowed within a subdivision if open space requirements for sixty thousand
(60,000) square feet is adhered to. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-2: OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT:
Open space areas are required in the CE-3 Zone to preserve natural features
that sustain hillside stability. Open space areas shall conform to the
requirements listed under sections
10-9C-11 through 10-9C-11-8 of this article. Open space can be a part of
individual lots. Ravines, drainages, steep slopes, ridgelines, fault lines,
unstable soils, and wildlife habitat corridors all must be included within open
space areas. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-3: OPEN SPACE WITH 60,000 SQUARE FOOT LOTS:
The desired outcome of allowing homes to be sixty thousand (60,000) square feet
lots is to preserve open space and help mitigate fore damage. Therefore, a
development may subdivide to smaller lots of sixty thousand (60,000) square
feet or greater, on slopes of less than twenty percent (20%), if forty percent
(40%) of the development site is dedicated to public open space. Open space
areas shall conform to the requirements listed under sections
10-9C-12 through 10-9C-12-2 of this article. Sixty thousand (60,000) square
foot lot subdivisions shall include:
   A.   Sixty thousand (60,000) square foot lot subdivision that the Planning
Commission and the City Council determine meets the intent of this article.
   B.   Open space area for public access to trails which includes area for
trailheads.
   C.   Public parking at trailhead locations.
   D.   Fire Chief must approve that clustering has placed the home in lower
fire risk areas. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-4: BUILDING ENVELOPE:
The building envelope location shall conform to the natural terrain and remain
within the areas of least slope. This area could be considerably smaller than
the lot to accomplish this requirement. The minimum building envelope size is
four thousand (4,000) square feet. The front, side and rear setback
requirements must be met. No building envelope can be located within areas of
thirty percent (30%) or greater slopes, nor can these slopes be graded to
provide for a buildable area. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-5: STEEPER BUILDABLE SLOPES:
Lots that contain natural terrain with slopes between twenty percent (20%) and
twenty nine percent (29%) must be engineered. The city engineer must approve
lots incorporating these slopes. A building envelope can only contain a maximum
of fifty percent (50%) of its area of these steeper slopes. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-
2022)
10-9C-16-6: LOT FRONTAGE:
   A.   Frontage along a city street shall be a minimum of one hundred twenty
feet (120').
   B.   Each lot shall abut upon and have direct access to a city street.
   C.   The distance of said abutting side shall be not less than the minimum
width requirement of the zone, except that the length of the abutting side may
be reduced to not less than sixty feet (60') when the lot fronts upon a cul-de-
sac or curve in a designated city street and the lot lines radiate in such a
manner that the width of the lot will meet or exceed the minimum lot width
requirements as determined in accordance with city code. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-
2022)
10-9C-16-7: FRONT SETBACK:
All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set back not less than thirty
feet (30') from the front lot line which abuts on any existing or proposed
public street right of way. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-8: SIDE SETBACK:
All dwellings and other main buildings, including any attached garage or
similar structure, shall have side setbacks of one hundred feet (100') or
greater from any side property line. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-9: REAR SETBACK:
All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set back one hundred (100') or
greater from the rear lot line. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-10: LOT REQUIREMENT TABLE:
 
Lot size minimum  4 acres or greater
                  60,000 square feet w/ requirement
Lot frontage      120 feet
Front setback     30 feet
Side setback      100 feet
Rear setback      100 feet
Building envelope 4,000 square feet minimum
Envelope slope    50 percent under 20 percent slope
 
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-11: ACCESS:
Each lot shall front upon and have direct access to a designated city street.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-12: BUILDING WITH THE NATURAL TERRAIN:
The intent of the CE-3 Zone is to construct with the natural terrain. Some
grading can be approved if it is demonstrated that it is needed for safety,
erosion control, or that the alternative is less desirable. Dwellings on the
down slope side of a road should utilize the natural slope while designing the
grade around the structure to drain away from it. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-13: GRADING OF INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT:
All grading, removal of natural vegetation and retention on building lots
requires a revegetation/retention plan and a grading permit. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-
2022)
10-9C-16-14: REVEGETATION/RETENTION PLAN:
A revegetation/retention plan is required for each lot prior to any removal of
vegetation or the issuance of a grading permit. The plan must follow at a
minimum the IBC (International Building Code) standards. Areas requiring
retention over four feet (4') will require the plan to be approved by a
licensed civil engineer. The city engineer and planning commission shall
approve the revegetation/retention plan. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-15: REMOVAL OF NATURAL VEGETATION:
Natural vegetation including indigenous hardwood trees can be removed from the
portions of the lot to be committed to the dwelling, driveway, retention walls,
firebreaks and areas required to be modified as described within the urban
interface area requirements (section
9-3-9 of the city code). Areas with slopes twenty percent (20%) or greater that
are not a part of an approved building envelope, ravines, drainages, and
wildlife corridors shall remain in a natural state. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-16: CUTS AND FILLS:
Cut or fill slopes shall be no steeper than two feet (2') horizontal to one
foot (1') vertical and shall be designed with acceptable erosion control
systems. An erosion control system is generally composed of a combination of
long-term nondegradable erosion mat, structural geogrid and/or geotextile.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-17: GRADING PERMIT:
   A.   No grading, filling or excavation of any kind shall commence on a lot
within the CE-3 Zone without first having obtained a grading permit.
   B.   A revegetation/retention plan, endorsed by a licensed civil engineer,
must be approved by the city engineer and planning commission.
   C.   A grading permit is required for each individual lot prior to a
building permit being issued.
   D.   Areas outside of approved grading areas shall be cordoned off during
the grading and construction process and shall not be disturbed. (Ord. 22-07,
11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-18: DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
Each dwelling within any development in the CE-3 Zone shall conform to the
following requirements. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-19: BUILDING ENVELOPE:
All buildings shall be constructed within the building envelope. The building
envelope is identified on the approved subdivision plat and is located on the
lot detailing the front, side and rear setback requirements. The building area
must exclude all areas as defined in the Sensitive Areas Plan, the Slope
Analysis Plan, and the setbacks as outlined above. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-20: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings must be located within the building envelope in CE-3.
Accessory buildings must be located thirty feet (30') from any other building
on the property. For additional requirements, see supplemental regulations,
section
10-12-29 of this title. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-21: HEIGHT OF BUILDING:
For dwelling height requirements, see supplemental regulations, section
10-12-39 of this title. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-22: CONFORMANCE WITH SPECIAL DWELLING REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the requirements herein set forth, all dwellings shall conform
to the special provisions relating to dwellings set forth under section
10-12-27 of this title. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-23: DWELLING OCCUPANCY LIMIT:
The number of unrelated individuals residing in a dwelling unit shall not
exceed four (4). (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-24: OFF STREET PARKING AND DRIVEWAYS:
All dwellings within the CE-3 Zone shall adhere to the following parking and
driveway requirements. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-24-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required for each
dwelling unit. Each off street parking space shall be not less than ten feet by
twenty feet (10' x 20') per space and shall not be located within any portion
of a side setback area adjacent to a street. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-24-2: GARAGE:
A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces shall be enclosed within a
garage. A minimum of one off street parking space shall be enclosed within a
garage for an accessory dwelling. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-24-3: REVERSE SLOPE DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   No driveway providing access to a garage or off-street parking area
within a lot shall have a down slope grade from the adjacent street to the
garage or covered off street parking area.
   B.   Applicability: These provisions apply to all developments in CE-3, with
the following exceptions:   
      1.   The planning commission may approve a down slope driveway if:
         a.   The drainage of surface water will be adequately diverted from
entry into the dwelling, garage, or other covered parking area.
         b.   The proposed diversion of surface water will not impact adjacent
property. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-16-24-4: DRIVEWAY GRADE:
   A.   Any driveway providing access to a building envelope shall have a slope
of not more than twelve percent (12%) at any point.
   B.   A driveway grade up to fifteen percent (15%) is allowed if heated.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-17: FENCING:
   A.   No fence may be constructed or installed unless shown on an approved
site plan.
   B.   Fences are subject to the intersecting streets and clear visibility
restrictions of this code.
   C.   Fencing requirements will conform to the standards listed in section
10-12-13 of this title.
   D.   Fences in identified wildlife corridors are strongly discouraged, but
in no case may exceed forty-two inches (42") in height. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18: SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
10-9C-18-1: CONCEPT PLAN:
Conceptual work done before the extensive work needed to gain preliminary plat
approval can guide the applicant in a direction that can help make development
layout better, obtain approvals in a timely manner, and be overall less
expensive. A concept plan is not required but is highly recommended. (Ord. 22-
07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-2: APPLICATION AND FEE:
The concept stage requires an application and fee. Listed on the application
are the requirements that must be met to have a complete application along with
the fee schedule. There are recommended guidelines that can be followed to help
give the planning commission enough detail to adequately review a concept
proposal. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-3: VESTING:
Since a concept plan is not required, projects are not vested at concept. Any
advice or direction given by staff, or the City Council shall not be construed
as an approval. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-4: SENSITIVE AREAS PLAN:
A full sensitive areas plan is not required in the concept stage, but it is
recommended that a cursory plan be done to aid in designing the concept plan
layout. See section
10-9C-9-1 of this article for the requirements of a sensitive areas plan. (Ord.
22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-5: STAFF REVIEW:
City staff will review the concept plan and make comments that can guide the
applicant to design a development that meets the CE-3 zone intent and
regulations. Multiple reviews can occur. Staff review shall occur prior to a
public meeting and planning commission review. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT AND REQUIRED PLANS:
A preliminary plat is required and is the first official step toward gaining
approval of a development. With the plat being preliminary in nature, larger
developments and those being proposed on unique terrains can require multiple
renditions of the plat as prescribed by staff and the planning commission.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-7: APPLICATION AND FEE:
The preliminary plat stage requires an application and fee. Listed on the
application are the requirements that must be met to have a complete
application along with the fee schedule. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-8: VESTING:
Once an application is found complete and all fees paid, an applicant is vested
with all applicable development codes and standards. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-9: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The preliminary plat shall contain the following:
      1.   Delineate the location of designated setback areas.
      2.   The building envelope.
      3.   Areas of cuts and fills.
      4.   Retention.
      5.   Open space areas.
      6.   Conform to the requirements set forth in chapter 15, article B of
this title.
   B.   Plans that shall be submitted and approved in conjunction with the
preliminary plat:
      1.   Sensitive Areas Plan.
      2.   Slope Analysis Plan.
      3.   A Revegetation/Retention Plan.
      4.   Erosion Control Plan.
      5.   Geotechnical Report.
      6.   Fire Protection Plan.
      7.   Trails Plan.
      8.   Traffic Management Plan.
      9.   Open Space Conservation Plan if lots are less than four (4) acres.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-9-1: SENSITIVE AREAS PLAN:
Purpose: To promote safe, environmentally sensitive, development that balances
the rights and long-term interests of property owners and those of the general
public. The sensitive area plan shall contain the following:
   A.   A slope analysis and an aerial map as a base, showing the non-disturbed
conditions that exist prior to any grading or construction.
      1.   Map shall outline and have the following overlays: current
vegetation including clusters or groves of trees, natural features that include
ravines, drainages, steep slopes, ridgelines, fault lines, unique soil features
(collapsible soil or large rock features).
      2.   Wildlife habitat corridors and existing trails.
      3.   Proposed trails, lots, and open space, the building envelope, and
roads.
   B.   The plan shall be submitted and recommended by the planning commission
and approved by the city council with the submittal of the preliminary plat.
The commission can require redesigns of lots, roads, and other development
features to better implement the intent of this code.
   C.   Data from the sensitive areas plan shall be used to develop the
preliminary plat by locating areas that should be preserved to meet the intent
and regulations of the CE-3 Zone. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-9-2: SLOPE ANALYSIS PLAN:
   A.   A slope analysis plan shall be submitted in conjunction with the
sensitive areas plan and with the submittal of the preliminary plat.
   B.   Application:
      1.   The slope analysis shall show contour lines at two-foot (2')
intervals.
      2.   It will also identify by color the following slopes:
         a.   Under fifteen percent (15%).
         b.   Fifteen percent (15%) to nineteen percent (19%).
         c.   Twenty percent (20%) to twenty nine percent (29%).
         d.   Thirty percent (30%) to thirty nine percent (39%).
         e.   Forty percent (40%) and above.
      3.   It shall also contain the following:
         a.   Proposed lots.
         b.   Building envelopes.
         c.   Roads.
         d.   Trails.
         e.   Open space.
         f.   Area of disturbance.
      4.   The slope analysis shall aid the applicant, staff, and the planning
commission in determining that the intent and regulations of the CE-3 Zone are
met. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-9-3: REVEGETATION/RETENTION PLAN:
   A.   A revegetation/retention plan is required for each lot prior to any
removal of vegetation or the issuance of a grading permit.
   B.   The plan shall illustrate all areas proposed for removal of vegetative
materials and retention.
   C.   The plan may not include landscaping or other elements that conflict
with the approved fire protection plan.
   D.   Revegetation with natural plants is required for areas of cuts and
fills, around retention walls, and areas where previous activities have
disturbed natural conditions.
   E.   Areas requiring retention over four feet (4') will require the plan to
be approved by a licensed civil engineer.
   F.   The city engineer and planning commission shall approve the
revegetation/retention plan. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-9-4: SURFACEWATER AND EROSION CONTROL PLAN:
Must be submitted with the preliminary plat:
   A.   The plan shall detail the following:
      1.   Water runoff control to avoid flooding problems on neighboring
properties in accordance with section
10-15D-3.
      2.   Erosion control.
      3.   Debris and silt prevented from infiltrating storm water system
during construction.
      4.   Detail how erosion will be managed in cut and/or fill areas.
   B.   City Engineer must approve plan.
   C.   Planning Commission must recommend plan.
   D.   City Council must approve plan. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-9-5: PRELIMINARY GEOTECHNICAL REPORT:
   A.   A preliminary geotechnical report shall be completed and submitted as a
part of the preliminary plat.
   B.   The report shall consider and address all recommendations in any
reports prepared by the Utah geological survey (UGS) in relation to the subject
property.
   C.   If no prior reports have been prepared, the applicant shall consult
with the appropriate UGS official, obtain comments addressing the geologic
conditions affecting the area, and provide those comments.
   D.   If unsafe geologic conditions that may affect the property and the
probability that those conditions will detrimentally impact the proposed
development or surrounding properties within fifty (50) years from the date of
the statement, the environmental impact of the proposed action, including a
projected "worst case scenario" of the detrimental effects the proposed action
or development may have on the safety and environmental stability of the
property and adjacent properties shall be required.
   E.   Any adverse environmental effects that cannot be avoided, should the
proposal be implemented, as well as alternatives to the development to avoid
any unsafe geologic conditions, shall be documented.
   F.   The geotechnical report shall be stamped and signed by a licensed
professional geotechnical engineer registered in the state of Utah with
experience in preparing and rendering geotechnical reports.
   G.   The city can require that the report undergo a peer review by a
separate engineering firm selected by the city at the applicant's expense.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-9-6: FIRE PROTECTION PLAN:
A fire protection plan shall be submitted as part of the preliminary plat.
Approval by the city Fire Chief is required for preliminary and final. All
standards of the International Fire Code must be met with regards to fire flow
and structure size. Additional water source and supply may also be required to
meet the fire flow requirements for the use of the structure. Additional
requirements to recommendations for defensible space may also be required.
Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) will also need to be followed for all structures
within the CE-3 Zone. If clustering is part of the development plan, the Fire
Chief must approve the placement of all clustering. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-10: STAFF REVIEW:
City staff will review the preliminary plat and its associated plans and
reports and make comments that can guide the applicant to a development that
meets the CE-3 Zone intent and regulations. Multiple reviews can occur. Staff
review shall occur prior to the public hearing and planning commission review.
Staff shall make recommendations to the planning commission stating the general
plan, city code, and the development standards to support their
recommendations. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-11: PUBLIC HEARING:
A public hearing shall be held with the neighboring property owners in
accordance with subsection
10-11F-4D of this title. This is a formal meeting. Concerns and comments from
the public shall be taken. Staff and/or the commission shall address any
comments that cite code violations or health, safety, and welfare concerns.
Comments from this hearing can aid the applicant, staff, and the commission to
address design elements of the development. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-12: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
After staff reviews and comments from the public hearing have been addressed,
the planning commission shall review the preliminary plat and associated plans
and reports. The commission can require adjustments to the building envelope,
roadways, open space areas, and other elements of the development that better
accommodate the natural conditions present and ensure that location or
construction of such elements will not result in the creation of an adverse or
unsafe condition. The commission shall conclude that the development will
accomplish and preserve the intent and regulations of the zone. (Ord. 22-07,
11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-13: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
The commission can approve, approve with conditions, or deny the plat giving
findings drawn from the general plan, city codes, and development standards.
The motion shall be sent to the city council with the recommendation and
findings from the commission. If the commission finds that the plat is not
ready to be forwarded to the council, the commission can table the plat
requiring the applicant to supply additional information or make changes. (Ord.
22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-14: CITY COUNCIL REVIEW:
After staff reviews and comments from the public hearing have been addressed,
and the planning commission has approved, the city council shall review the
preliminary plat and associated plans and reports. The council can require
adjustments to the building envelope, roadways, open space areas, and other
elements of the development that better accommodate the natural conditions
present and ensure that location or construction of such elements will not
result in the creation of an adverse or unsafe condition. The council shall
conclude that the development will accomplish and preserve the intent and
regulations of the zone. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-15: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The city council can approve, approve with additional conditions, or deny the
plat basing their decision on the planning commission recommendations and their
findings. If the council denies or significantly changes the plat, it shall be
sent back to the planning commission for additional work. Significant changes
shall include adding or subtracting five (5) or more building lots, adding
development to sensitive lands (slopes over twenty percent (20%), drainages,
ravines, ridgelines, sensitive soils, fault lines, wildlife corridors), changes
to open space, or changes that require additional engineering work. Additional
public hearings could be required. Once a preliminary plat is approved, the
developer has one year to gain final approval. If final approval is not
obtained within the one-year period, the plat approval and vesting shall be
void. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-16: FINAL PLAT:
A final plat is required and is the last official step toward gaining approvals
of a development. Changes to the preliminary plat should be minimal. (Ord. 22-
07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-17: APPLICATION AND FEE:
The final plat stage requires an application and fee. Listed on the application
are the requirements that must be met to have a complete application and the
fee schedule. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-18: FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The final plat shall conform to the city development standards. (Ord. 22-07,
11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-19: FINAL GEOTECHNICAL REPORT:
All projects require a final geotechnical report. The geotechnical report shall
be stamped and signed by a licensed professional engineer registered in the
state of Utah with experience in preparing and rendering geotechnical reports.
The report shall include as a minimum the following: field investigation;
description and classification of site soils including boring and pit logs;
depth to ground water if applicable; depth to bedrock if applicable;
suitability of site soils for proposed project improvements including
foundations; identification of expansive/collapsible soils and remedial action
if required; liquefaction potential and remedial action if required; hazardous
geologic conditions not accounted for or identified in the preliminary
geotechnical report such as unstable soils, faults, etc.; stability of natural
slopes; slope and retaining recommendations for graded slopes; soil weights,
loads, and allowable bearing pressures; soil preparation recommendations;
seismic recommendations, subgrade and pavement recommendations; a percolation
test at the proposed stormwater basins, other recommendations applicable to the
project site. This report shall be completed and approved by staff prior to
planning commission review of the final plat. The city can require that the
report undergo a peer review by a separate engineering firm selected by the
city at the applicant's expense. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-20: OPTIONAL PUBLIC MEETING:
A public hearing is not required for the final plat though staff or the
planning commission can decide to hold one if substantial changes from the
preliminary plat would require additional comment. If a second hearing is not
desired, the planning commission meeting where the final plat shall be reviewed
is a public meeting. Staff can require an applicant to notify residents and
landowners in the area of the meeting where the final plat shall be reviewed.
(Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-21: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW/ACTION:
The commission can approve, approve with conditions, or deny the plat giving
findings drawn from the general plat, city codes, and development standards.
The motion shall be sent to the city council with the recommendation and
findings from the commission. If the commission deems that the plat is not
ready to be forwarded to the council, the commission can table the plat
requiring the applicant to supply additional information or make changes. (Ord.
22-07, 11-8-2022)
10-9C-18-22: CITY COUNCIL REVIEW/ACTION:
The city council can approve, approve with additional conditions, or deny the
plat basing their decision on the planning commission recommendations and their
findings. If the council denies or significantly changes the plat, it shall be
sent back to the planning commission for additional work. Once a final plat is
approved, the developer has six (6) months to record the development with the
county. If the final plat is not recorded with the county within the six (6)
month period, the plat approval and vesting shall be void.
Report Concept Preliminary Final
Report                       Concept Preliminary Final
Sensitive Area               Advised Mandatory
Slope Analysis               Advised Mandatory
Erosion Control Plan                 Mandatory
Revegetation Plan                    Mandatory
Retention Plan                       Mandatory
Geotechnical Report                  Mandatory
Limits of Disturbance                Mandatory
Fire Protection Plan                 Mandatory
Trails                               Mandatory
Open Space Conservation Plan Advised Mandatory
Traffic Management Plan      Advised Mandatory
 
Other reports may be required by code or due to unique circumstances found at
concept/preliminary review. (Ord. 22-07, 11-8-2022)
CHAPTER 10
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. C-1 RETAIL COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-10A-1: Legislative Intent
10-10A-2: Permitted And Conditional Uses
10-10A-3: Temporary Buildings For Housing Guards, Watchmen
10-10A-4: Area, Width, Location And Height
10-10A-5: Access
10-10A-6: Special Provisions
10-10A-7: Compliance With State And Federal Regulations
10-10A-8: Approval By Engineer And Fire Chief Required
10-10A-9: Site Plan Required
10-10A-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The C-1 retail commercial zone has been established for the primary
purpose of providing a place where retail and service facilities can be
established, where residents in the surrounding area can conveniently obtain
daily household necessities and where the traveling public may also obtain
goods and services. The commercial zone will also allow for the development of
fully integrated, mixed use pedestrian oriented commercial development.
   B.   In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this development
code and to stabilize and protect essential characteristics of this zone, the
following regulations shall apply in the C-1 retail commercial zone. (Ord. 02-
5-28-10, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002)
10-10A-2: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted or
conditional uses in the C-1 commercial zone upon compliance with requirements
as set forth in this title. P = permitted use, C = conditional use.
Land Use Classification
Land Use                                                         Classification
Assisted living facilities                                       C
Automobile parts sales, new or rebuilt, inside storage and sales P
only
                                                                 
Bank or financial institution                                    P
Beauty culture school                                            P
Boarding house or lodging house                                  C
Boat sales and service                                           C
Building materials, sales or yard                                C
                                                                 
Car wash                                                         C
Church                                                           C
Civic theaters and halls (public only)                           C
Clinics and medical facilities                                   P
                                                                 
Dance hall                                                       C
                                                                 
Eating establishments                                            P
Education facilities                                             P
                                                                 
Golf courses (public or private)                                 C
Government buildings or uses, noncorrectional                    C
                                                                 
Health club                                                      C
Hospitals                                                        C
Hotel                                                            C
                                                                 
Kennels                                                          C
                                                                 
Laboratory, dental and medical                                   C
Library                                                          P
Light manufacturing                                              C
Lodge or social hall                                             C
                                                                 
Museums                                                          C
                                                                 
Office, business and professional                                P
                                                                 
Park and playground                                              C
Pharmacy                                                         P
Physician or surgeon                                             P
Post office                                                      P
Private education institutions                                   C
Public utilities substation                                      C
                                                                 
Radio, television or FM broadcasting station                     C
Reception center or wedding chapel                               C
Recording and sound studios                                      C
Recreation center or facilities                                  C
Residential, second story only                                   P
Retail sales and services                                        P
                                                                 
Seasonal businesses                                              P
Self-service storage units                                       C
Service station, automobile, with or without rotating brush car  C
wash as accessory use
Shooting range, indoor only                                      C
Supermarket                                                      C
                                                                 
Taxidermist                                                      C
Theater, outdoor or indoor                                       C
Trade or industrial school                                       P
                                                                 
University, college, junior college, professional school         P
education
Utility transmission projects, minor                             P
                                                                 
Wells, water storage tanks and similar facilities and structures C
 
(Ord. 02-5-28-10, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 04-7, 8-17-
2004, eff. 9-17-2004; amd. Ord. 11-03, 4-12-2011, eff. 6-9-2011; Ord. 25-02, 3-
11-2025)
10-10A-3: TEMPORARY BUILDINGS FOR HOUSING GUARDS, WATCHMEN:
Temporary buildings, and other mobile units, incidental to construction,
including living quarters for a guard or night watchman, are permitted, but
must be removed upon completion or abandonment of construction work. (Ord. 02-
5-28-10, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002)
10-10A-4: AREA, WIDTH, LOCATION AND HEIGHT:
There shall be no area, width, location, height and size requirements, except
that all buildings shall be set back from public streets a distance of not less
than fifteen feet (15') nor more than thirty feet (30') from the right of way
line of any public street. Within the required setback area from the street,
there shall be only paved walks, driveways, lawns and landscaping. No parking
shall be allowed in this required setback. Maximum height of all buildings
shall be thirty five feet (35') as measured from the median grade level located
along the building to the highest point on the building. (Ord. 02-5-28-10, 5-
28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002)
10-10A-5: ACCESS:
Each lot occupied by a commercial structure shall abut upon and have direct
access to a city street. No access driveway shall be located closer than forty
feet (40') from the closest point of intersection of any two (2) city rights of
way boundaries. (Ord. 02-5-28-10, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002)
10-10A-6: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Parking: All off street parking shall be hard surfaced, of which ninety
five percent (95%) of all parking shall be located to the rear of the building.
Adjacent parking lots shall have vehicular connections by an alley or
internally. For off street parking requirements, see section
10-12-15 of this title.
   B.   Second Level Residential: Residential uses are encouraged on the second
level of all commercial structures. (Ord. 02-5-28-10, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-12-
2002)
10-10A-7: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
All proposals for approval shall comply with applicable state and federal
imposed requirements, and all applications for tanks for storage of flammable
liquids shall include written evidence of such compliance. (Ord. 02-5-28-10, 5-
28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002)
10-10A-8: APPROVAL BY ENGINEER AND FIRE CHIEF REQUIRED:
Any proposal which includes storage or sale of flammable liquids shall be
reviewed and approved by the city engineer and fire chief. (Ord. 02-5-28-10, 5-
28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002)
10-10A-9: SITE PLAN REQUIRED:
Any proposed development within the zone shall be required to submit a site
plan and building and architectural plans to the planning commission for
approval. A site plan shall be prepared in accordance with the provisions of
section
10-12-19 of this title. (Ord. 02-5-28-10, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002)
CHAPTER 11
OTHER ZONES
ARTICLE A. PF PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE
SECTION:
10-11A-1: Legislative Intent
10-11A-2: Permitted Uses
10-11A-3: Area, Yard And Height Regulations
10-11A-4: Lighting
10-11A-5: Approval Procedure
10-11A-6: Site Plan Required
10-11A-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   The PF public facilities zone is established to provide areas for the
location and establishment of facilities owned and maintained by public and
quasi-public entities.
B.   It is the intent of this zone district to provide for effective regulation
of the placement and construction of major public systems and facilities within
the city in order to ensure that said facilities will be consistent with the
purposes of the general plan and be located, constructed and maintained in a
manner that will further the interests of the city and its residents and
facilitate the implementation of Utah Code Annotated sections 10-9a-305 and 10-
9a-406, as amended.
(Ord. 08-7, 4-8-2008; amd. Ord. 19-4, 8-27-2019)
10-11A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Buildings shall be designed, erected, altered, moved or maintained in a public
facilities district only for land uses set forth as follows:
   Accessory buildings and uses (non-occupied): Public parking area, vehicle,
materials or equipment storage buildings, and maintenance and heating facility
and similar uses.
   Civic: Churches, libraries, places for public assembly, memorials,
monuments, cemeteries and similar public uses.
   Educational: Primary and secondary public, private or parochial schools and
similar public uses.
   Governmental: Municipal uses for administrative functions and uses by the
general public. Examples may include but are not limited to: municipal offices,
fire station, service district offices, public works administrative and
maintenance, and post offices.
   Public utility facilities: Public sewage treatment, water treatment, water
wells, reservoirs and storage tanks, electric substations and similar uses.
   Recreational: Parks, recreation fields and playgrounds, pools and public
gardens, public restrooms, open space and golf courses and similar public uses.
(Ord. 08-7, 4-8-2008; amd. Ord. 19-4, 8-27-2019)
10-11A-3: AREA, YARD, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The area or parcel of land for a permitted public facility shall be not less
than required to provide a site adequate for the main and accessory buildings,
off street parking and other accessory uses, yards and open spaces to
accommodate the facility and maintain the character of the neighborhood,
provided, however, churches shall have a minimum area of three (3) acres. The
area or parcel of land for a permitted public facility shall be approved by the
planning commission.
   A.   Yard Regulations:
      1.   The front yard setback shall be not less than the required front
yard setback for any adjacent district. If the parcel is surrounded by other
parcels zoned as Public Facilities the minimum front set back shall be thirty
feet (30’).
      2.   The side and rear yards for each public facility building shall be
not less than the criteria set forth in the following schedule when adjacent to
any residential district:
Use                          Side And Rear Yard (Feet)
                               
Accessory Buildings and Uses   12
                               
Use                          Side And Rear Yard (Feet)
                                                                         
Accessory Buildings and Uses                                             12
                                                                         
Civic                        Nonassembly buildings                        50
                            Assembly buildings                           75
                                                                         
Educational                  Public, private and parochial schools        75
                                                                         
Governmental                 Structures located in or adjacent to         30
                             residential areas
                             Structures requiring public parking, served
                             by truck and tractor traffic, or including
                             vehicle or equipment maintenance may be
                            required by planning commission to provide    
                             additional set back distance to allow for a
                             buffer between parking/ travel ways and
                             residential parcels
                            Structures adjacent to other Public          12
                             Facilities or Commercial Uses
                                                                         
Public Utility Facilities    Structures                                   12
                                                                         
Recreational                 Buildings                                    75
 
         3.   Planning commission may require buffering through the use of
landscaping, fencing, earthwork or other screening techniques that may entail
greater setback distances in order to minimize the aesthetic impact to the
surrounding neighborhood. Consideration of the impacts of characteristics such
as scale, traffic, noise, lighting, hours of operation and physical site
characteristics may necessitate buffering leading to greater setback distances.
         4.   Driveways and parking areas serving the public facility may be
located within the side or rear yard set forth in the above schedule, but
driveways shall be located not less than ten feet (10') and parking areas not
less than the side yard setback of the adjacent district, and play areas shall
not be located closer than fifty feet (50') from any adjacent boundary line of
a residential district.
         5.   Height Regulations: Chimneys, spires, cupolas, towers, flagpoles,
water tanks, monuments and other mechanical appurtenances located upon or
constituted as an integral part of the main building, shall not exceed a height
of fifty feet (50') above finished grade except for church spires which may
rise to seventy feet (70') above finished grade.
(Ord. 08-7, 4-8-2008; amd. Ord. 19-4, 8-27-2019)
10-11A-4: LIGHTING:
Lighting for public facilities shall conform to the guidelines found in
10-12-43 “Outdoor Lighting Requirements” of the city code.
(Ord. 08-7, 4-8-2008; amd. Ord. 19-4, 8-27-2019)
10-11A-5: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
Approval for the placement of the zone district and for the location and layout
of uses within this zone shall be obtained from the city council, following
recommendations of the planning commission in the manner required for an
amendment of the zoning ordinance. Final approval by the city council shall be
by adoption and publication of an ordinance amending the official zone map to
show and identify the area included with the development, together with a copy
of the site plan, required pursuant to section
10-11A-6 of this article, showing the improvements to be constructed thereon
and any conditions attached to said approval. Upon adoption and publication of
the ordinance, the specific requirements of the zone shall be as set forth upon
the plan and conditions of approval. Any subsequent modification of said plans
or conditions of approval shall require submittal and approval of an amended
plan in the same manner as required for the original approval.
(Ord. 08-7, 4-8-2008; amd. Ord. 19-4, 8- 27-2019)
10-11A-6: SITE PLAN REQUIRED:
To facilitate evaluation of the potential impact from the zoning of the
property and the placement of proposed uses thereon, a site plan showing the
area proposed to be included in the zone district, the proposed placement of
major buildings and facilities to be located on the site and provisions
intended to minimize adverse impacts resulting from the construction or
operation of said use shall be provided to the planning commission and city
council as part of the submittal materials.
(Ord. 08-7, 4-8-2008; amd. Ord. 19-4, 8-27-2019)
ARTICLE B. TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-11B-1: Legislative Intent; Purpose
10-11B-2: Transferable Development Rights; Creation; Sending Sites
10-11B-3: Transferable Development Rights; Receiving Sites
10-11B-4: Development Approval Procedure
10-11B-5: Easement Required
10-11B-6: Coordination With Other Provisions And Processes
10-11B-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT; PURPOSE:
The objective in establishing the transferable development rights overlay zone
is to provide locations in the city where the right to develop property may be
transferred from one property to another. Each property shall be denominated as
a sending site (TDR-S) or a receiving site (TDR-R) as set forth herein. The
purposes of the TDR overlay zone are to:
   A.   Allow development to occur on undeveloped property without impacting
the capacity of the city's current infrastructure;
   B.   Discourage development in areas deemed hazardous;
   C.   Encourage new connections to the city's culinary water and sanitary
sewer systems to provide for fees to reduce the city's bonds;
   D.   Provide a method whereby development rights may be transferred from
sending sites to receiving sites in order to accomplish the purposes set forth
in subsections A through C of this section. (Ord. 00-9-12-12, 9-12-2000, eff.
10-9-2000)
10-11B-2: TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS; CREATION; SENDING SITES:
   A.   Creation: Development rights shall be created and transferred only by
means of documents, including an easement, which meet the requirements of this
article.
   B.   Eligibility: In order to be eligible to transfer one or more
development rights from a parcel of property, such property shall be located in
a sending area. The property must be in a recorded subdivision within the
current corporate boundaries of the city. The owner of such property shall
apply for and receive approval to have the property placed in the TDR overlay
zone, pursuant to rezoning procedures set forth in this title.
      1.   Upon rezoning approval:
         a.   The property shall be shown on the official zoning map as a
sending site by denominating it as a TDR-S overlay zone;
         b.   A certificate shall be issued to the property owner by the city
recorder, pursuant to subsection B2 of this section, indicating the total
number of development rights which may be transferred from the property; and
         c.   The property owner shall be eligible, after complying with
subsection B2 of this section, to transfer development rights from the property
in accordance with the requirements of this article.
      2.   No transfer of development right certificate shall be issued, and no
development right shall be transferred, unless and until an easement is
recorded among the land records of Utah County, as required by section
10-11B-5 of this article on the property from which such right originates.
   C.   Expiration: If a TDR-S has not been used or renewed, it shall expire
five (5) years from the date of approval. (Ord. 00-9-12-12, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-
9-2000)
10-11B-3: TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS; RECEIVING SITES:
   A.   Conditions: In order to transfer one or more development rights to a
parcel of property, such parcel shall be located within a receiving area. The
property must be within the current corporate boundaries of the city. The owner
of such parcel shall apply for and receive approval to have the property placed
in the TDR overlay zone pursuant to rezoning procedures set forth in this
title. Upon rezoning approval:
      1.   The property shall be shown on the official zoning map as a
receiving site by denominating it as a TDR-R overlay zone;
      2.   The property owner shall be eligible to transfer development rights
to the property in accordance with the requirements of this article;
      3.   A certificate shall be issued to the property owner by the city
recorder indicating the total number of development rights which may be
transferred to the property.
   B.   Expiration: If a dwelling has not been constructed on a TDR-R site or
the TDR-R has not been renewed, it shall expire two (2) years from the date of
approval.
   C.   No Density Increase: A TDR-R may not be used to increase the density of
a parcel of property beyond what would normally be allowed under the current
provisions of this code. (Ord. 00-9-12-12, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-9-2000)
10-11B-4: DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Preliminary Subdivision Plan: A request to utilize development rights
on a receiving site shall be in the form of a preliminary subdivision plan
submitted in accordance with regulations contained in chapter 15 of this title.
When the request is made:
      1.   The TDR-S certificate shall be submitted to the city to hold until
the transfer request is either completed or withdrawn.
      2.   A temporary notice of interest shall be recorded on the sending
parcel stating the right to develop the parcel is in the process of being
transferred.
   B.   Approval By City Council: The city council, after receiving a
recommendation from the planning commission, shall approve a request to utilize
development rights on a receiving site if the request:
      1.   Does not exceed the density limitations permitted in this title for
the underlying zone;
      2.   Is in accordance with the provisions of this article;
      3.   Is in accordance with the subdivision regulations contained in
chapter 15 of this title;
      4.   Is consistent with other recommendations of the general plan; and
      5.   Achieves a desirable development compatible with both site
conditions and surrounding existing and proposed future development.
   C.   Final Plan: A final plan for a subdivision or a site plan which uses
transferred development rights shall contain a statement setting forth the
development proposed, the zoning classification of the property, the number of
development rights used, and a notation of the recordation of the easement
required by section
10-11B-5 of this article.
   D.   Approval: After the request to transfer a right has been approved by
the city council:
      1.   The city council shall cancel the TDR-S certificate.
      2.   The city council shall determine if all previously paid impact and
hookup fees associated with the sending parcel are transferred to the receiving
parcel.
      3.   The property owner of the receiving parcel shall pay all applicable
fees associated with the development. (Ord. 00-9-12-12, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-9-
2000)
10-11B-5: EASEMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Area Of Easement: An easement shall be established on each sending site
from which development rights are transferred.
      1.   In situations where all development rights attached to a sending
site are transferred, the easement shall cover the entire sending site.
      2.   If only a portion of the development rights attached to a sending
site are transferred, the area of the easement shall be the same as the total
area of all the lots which could otherwise be established on the site but for
the transfer of development rights.
   B.   Recordable Form; Terms: The easement required by this article shall be
in a recordable form approved by the city attorney and shall meet the
requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 57-18-1 et seq. The easement shall
also include the following terms:
      1.   The holder of the easement shall be the city;
      2.   The easement shall require that the property be maintained and kept
free of weeds and debris;
      3.   The easement shall include a reference to the extinguishment of the
development rights transferred from the sending site. If additional rights are
transferred after the recordation of an easement, the easement shall be amended
to reflect the extinguishment of those additional rights and shall be recorded
thereafter;
      4.   The easement shall include a reference to any impact or hookup fees
which were transferred with the development right;
      5.   All parties who have a declared interest in the property, recorded
on the books of the Utah County recorder, must consent to the granting of the
easement. (Ord. 00-9-12-12, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-9-2000)
10-11B-6: COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROVISIONS AND PROCESSES:
   A.   Review Necessary: If subdivision review and approval is necessary,
review of an application under this article shall be carried out
simultaneously, and under the same application, referral, notice and public
hearing procedural requirements as is provided for site plan review as set
forth in this title.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: In cases where a conditional use permit is
required for a proposed use, review of an application under this article shall
be carried out simultaneously with the conditional use permit review as set
forth in this title. (Ord. 00-9-12-12, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-9-2000)
ARTICLE C. HILLSIDE CLUSTER OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-11C-1: Legislative Intent
10-11C-2: Zone Requirements
10-11C-3: Hillside Residential 1 Zone Requirements
10-11C-4: Overlay Zone Approval
10-11C-5: Minimum Development Size
10-11C-6: Overall Density
10-11C-7: Subdivision Design Requirements
10-11C-7-1: Lot Size
10-11C-7-2: Clustering
10-11C-7-3: Lot Slopes
10-11C-7-4: Building Envelope
10-11C-7-5: Lot Frontage
10-11C-7-6: Front Setback
10-11C-7-7: Side Setback/Interior Lots
10-11C-7-8: Side Setback/Corner Lots
10-11C-7-9: Rear Setback
10-11C-7-10: Lot Requirement Table
10-11C-7-11: Open Space Requirement
10-11C-7-12: Cul-De-Sac Length
10-11C-8: Bonus Density For Amenities
10-11C-8-1: Flatter Open Space
10-11C-8-2: Park Space
10-11C-8-3: Development Theme
10-11C-8-4: Area Of Dwellings
10-11C-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
Clustering of lots on the flatter terrain and preserving open space is a
priority of the general plan. A hillside cluster overlay development can allow
for more density by allowing smaller lots on the flatter terrain in return for
more open space and amenities that preserve unique and steep terrains and add
usable open space amenities to the city. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-2: ZONE REQUIREMENTS:
Developments in utilizing the overlay zone are required to adhere to the
underlying zone requirements, gain council approval, and be larger in scale.
(Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-3: HILLSIDE RESIDENTIAL 1 ZONE REQUIREMENTS:
All developments utilizing the hillside cluster overlay zone must also adhere
to the requirements of the hillside residential 1 (HR-1) zone as well as other
codes applicable citywide. Exceptions include the requirements listed in the
hillside cluster overlay zone. These include lot size, lot slopes, and building
envelope setbacks. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-4: OVERLAY ZONE APPROVAL:
Use of the hillside cluster overlay zone must be approved by the city council.
If an applicant is denied the use of the overlay zone, the development will
revert back to the underlying HR-1 zone requirements. It shall be the city
council's sole discretion to decide if a project should be allowed to use the
hillside cluster overlay within the intent of the ordinance as noted above.
(Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-5: MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT SIZE:
A cluster development must include twenty (20) or more acres. The development
may include multiple phases to achieve the twenty (20) acres required. (Ord.
08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-6: OVERALL DENSITY:
The density for a development shall conform to the base density of the HR-
1 zone of forty thousand (40,000) square foot lots. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7: SUBDIVISION DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
When developing a cluster development the following should be considered. (Ord.
08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-1: LOT SIZE:
The minimum lot size shall be one-half (1/2) acre. One acre lots and larger are
not allowed within a cluster development. Larger size lots must be a part of a
separate plat outside of the cluster development and follow the requirements of
HR-1 zone forty thousand (40,000) square foot lot developments. (Ord. 08-5, 2-
26-2008)
10-11C-7-2: CLUSTERING:
The purpose of clustering is to allow smaller lots on flatter terrain
surrounded or interspersed by open space. The planning commission can deny a
cluster development if it is not demonstrated that the intent of the overlay
zone is being met. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-3: LOT SLOPES:
All lots within a cluster development must be platted on land with the current
natural slopes under twenty percent (20%). A clustered lot can include up to
ten percent (10%) of the total area incidental slopes of twenty percent (20%)
or greater. The planning commission must approve their inclusion. Their finding
should be that including these slopes would be more consistent with the intent
of this article rather than requiring them as open space. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-
2008)
10-11C-7-4: BUILDING ENVELOPE:
The building envelope location within a lot should conform to the natural
terrain and remain within the flattest areas of the lot. This area could be
considerably smaller than the lot to accomplish this requirement. The minimum
building envelope size is four thousand (4,000) square feet. The front, side
and rear setback requirements still must be met. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-5: LOT FRONTAGE:
Frontage along a city street shall be a minimum of one hundred ten feet (110').
(Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-6: FRONT SETBACK:
All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set back not less than thirty
feet (30') from the front lot line which abuts on any existing or proposed
public street right of way. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-7: SIDE SETBACK/INTERIOR LOTS:
All dwellings and other main buildings, including any attached garage or
similar structure, shall have side setbacks of fifteen feet (15') or greater
from any side property line not abutting a street. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-8: SIDE SETBACK/CORNER LOTS:
All dwellings and other main buildings, including any attached garage or
similar structure, shall have side setbacks of fifteen feet (15') or greater on
the side not abutting any existing or proposed road, and shall have a side
setback of thirty feet (30') or greater on the side which abuts on any existing
or proposed road. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-9: REAR SETBACK:
All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set back thirty feet (30') or
greater from the rear lot line. On corner lots for a garage that is attached to
the rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for the garage may be
reduced to fifteen feet (15') or greater from the rear lot line. No living area
can be included within the garage footprint in this reduced area. (Ord. 08-5,
2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-10: LOT REQUIREMENT TABLE:
 
Lot size           20,000 to less than 40,000 square feet
Lot frontage       110 feet
Front setback      30 feet
Front exception    20 feet
Side setback       15 feet
Rear setback       30 feet
Building envelope  4,000 square feet minimum
 
(Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-11: OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT:
It shall be required that at least forty percent (40%) of a cluster development
be dedicated as open space. Open space cannot be a part of individual lots.
Ravines, drainages, ridgelines, fault lines, unstable soils, and wildlife
habitat corridors all must be included within open space areas. All slopes of
twenty percent (20%) or greater (unless approved by the planning commission to
be included as part of a lot) must be included within open space areas. Unique
land features could require more than forty percent (40%) of the development be
dedicated as open space. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-7-12: CUL-DE-SAC LENGTH:
All cul-de-sacs shall conform to section
10-15C-5, "Cul-De-Sacs", of this title. (Ord. 16-2, 8-23-2016)
10-11C-8: BONUS DENSITY FOR AMENITIES:
Additional density up to thirty percent (30%) of the base density can be
allowed in return for amenities. The planning commission shall determine what
percentages to allow for the types of amenities proposed. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-
2008)
10-11C-8-1: FLATTER OPEN SPACE:
Up to ten percent (10%) additional density can be allowed for providing natural
open space areas on terrain on slopes under fifteen percent (15%). This type of
open space shall include a trail system. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-8-2: PARK SPACE:
Up to ten percent (10%) additional density can be allowed for providing park
space. This space shall intersperse the natural terrain with grass areas.
Amenities in the park can include play areas, fields, trails, benches, picnic
areas, pavilions, or gazebos. The planning commission shall determine the
appropriate mix of park amenities. (Ord. 08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-8-3: DEVELOPMENT THEME:
Up to ten percent (10%) additional density can be allowed for providing a
development theme. This can include upgraded signage, special curb, trail, or
sidewalk treatments, entrance monuments, or other proposed enhancements. (Ord.
08-5, 2-26-2008)
10-11C-8-4: AREA OF DWELLINGS:
For dwelling size requirements, see supplemental regulations, section
10-12-41 of this title. (Ord. 12-8, 12-11-2012)
ARTICLE D. SENIOR HOUSING OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-11D-1: Findings
10-11D-2: Elderly/Senior Definition
10-11D-3: Purpose
10-11D-4: Overlay Zone Created
10-11D-5: Uses
10-11D-6: Underlying Zone Development Standards And Regulations
10-11D-7: Overlay Zone Development Standards And Regulations
10-11D-8: Compliance With Subdivision Procedure
10-11D-9: Compliance With Overlay Zone
10-11D-10: Developer's Agreement
10-11D-1: FINDINGS:
The city council of Elk Ridge hereby finds that senior housing is a necessary
component of a well rounded and sustainable community. Further, the council
hereby finds that current demographic trends indicate a substantial increase in
the aging population and the city deems it necessary and desirable to address
such trends by providing proper housing to give seniors the opportunity to
socialize with one another and engage in minimal or no individual yard care by
providing for development of planned units with professional maintenance of
common areas in a parklike setting. Carefully planned developments shall
enhance the beauty of Elk Ridge. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008, eff. 6-17-2008)
10-11D-2: ELDERLY/SENIOR DEFINITION:
Housing that meets the fair housing act definition of housing for older persons
including housing specifically designed for and occupied by elderly persons
under a federal, state, or local government program; or housing that is
occupied solely by persons who are sixty two (62) or older; or housing that has
at least one person who is fifty five (55) or older in at least eighty percent
(80%) of the occupied units and adheres to a policy that demonstrates intent to
house persons who are fifty five (55) or older. For compliance with this zone,
the sixty two (62) or older rule shall be used. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008, eff. 6-
17-2008)
10-11D-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the senior housing overlay zone is to promote the public health,
safety and welfare by allowing increased land use flexibility through
specialized zoning techniques to assure that senior citizens can continue to
contribute to the community without having heavy yard care maintenance and
without ignoring legitimate concerns regarding impacts on surrounding
residential areas. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008, eff. 6-17-2008)
10-11D-4: OVERLAY ZONE CREATED:
To further the purposes stated herein, there is hereby established a senior
housing overlay zone within the city of Elk Ridge in the R-1-12,000 and R-1-
15,000 zones. In considering a request to rezone a parcel as a senior housing
overlay zone, the planning commission and city council shall consider the
following:
   A.   The harmony and compliance of the proposed location of the overlay zone
with the objectives and requirements of the city general plan and zoning
ordinances;
   B.   Whether or not the application of the overlay zone may be injurious to
potential or existing development within the vicinity;
   C.   The current development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed
location and the harmony of the proposed location with the existing uses in the
neighborhood;
   D.   The proposed location is in proximity to the arterial or major
collector streets;
   E.   The senior housing overlay zone can only be applied within the R-1-
12,000, R-1-15,000 zones;
   F.   The compatibility of the proposed location of the overlay zone with the
density analysis of the underlying zone and neighboring development;
   G.   The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
area;
   H.   A demonstrable need for senior housing in the area of the proposed
location.
It shall be the city council's sole discretion to decide if a project should be
allowed to use the senior housing overlay within the intent of this article as
noted above. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008, eff. 6-17-2008; amd. Ord. 10-1, 1-26-2010,
eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11D-5: USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in the senior housing overlay zone
containing one or a combination of both:
Accessory apartments are not permitted in the senior housing overlay zone.
Home occupations shall be permitted.
Single or attached dwellings (not more than 2 attached) intended to be used as
senior housing as defined herein by older or elderly persons using the allowed
definition of sixty two (62) years old or older. Also, caregivers eighteen (18)
years old and older can reside with the elderly person. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008,
eff. 6-17-2008)
10-11D-6: UNDERLYING ZONE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
All uses within the senior housing overlay zone shall be conducted within
buildings that conform to the requirements of the underlying zone unless
specifically specified within the senior housing overlay zone code. (Ord. 08-8,
5-27-2008, eff. 6-17-2008)
10-11D-7: OVERLAY ZONE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
The following development standards and regulations shall apply to all
developments within the senior housing overlay zone:
   A.   Parking: Parking for the senior housing overlay zone will be a minimum
of two (2) parking spaces per dwelling; additional parking will be determined
by specific review by the planning commission.
   B.   Private Building Lots To Conform To Building Footprint: Developments
shall have the private building lots conform to the building footprint of each
unit. An area behind each unit can be included within the private lot area to
allow for a private patio area, garden plot, etc. The planning commission must
approve the size of this area. Their finding shall recognize the intent of the
zone, being for senior housing, and keep the patio/garden area size to a
minimum.
   C.   Setback: Setback from main private building lot:
 
Front setback = 25 feet to road right of way
Side setback  = 20 feet to neighboring building lot
                30 feet to a neighboring development
                25 feet to road right of way (corner lot)
Rear setback  = 30 feet
 
   D.   Minimum Acreage: Minimum acreage for a senior housing project shall be
one acre and the maximum project area is six (6) acres.
   E.   Density: The maximum dwelling units per acre shall be four (4) with the
total units allowed in a development being twenty four (24).
   F.   Maintenance: Professional maintenance must be provided.
   G.   Restrictive Covenants: The developer of a development within the senior
housing overlay zone shall be required to establish restrictive covenants to
limit occupancy to elderly persons, and their caregivers eighteen (18) years
old and older, and to carry out the conditions of the permitted uses and to
assure that the uses approved for the development will be maintained. In
addition the covenants must also include professional maintenance for the
development. Such covenants shall be recorded to run with the land to ensure
against conversion to less desirable land uses.
   H.   Architectural Character: The planning commission may request the use of
an architectural style, exterior color, or material that would be most
compatible with the purpose of the underlying zone district, assure greater
compatibility with surrounding development, or create an aesthetically pleasing
visual theme for the project.
   I.   Landscaping: Adequate landscaping shall be designed. Landscaping shall
be of the same general character or better as yards in the neighborhood. Not
less than thirty percent (30%) of the project shall be landscaped for the use
and benefit of the residents. Land proposed to be used for parking, pedestrian
walkways, and driveways shall not be included in meeting this landscaping
requirement. A complete landscaping plan shall be provided at the time of
preliminary review of the project showing a minimum of two (2) trees with a
caliper of two inches (2") and ten (10) 1-gallon shrubs per dwelling unit.
Areas of the development that have steeper slopes (over 10 percent) with native
hardwood trees shall be included within the overall landscaping plan to
preserve this natural feature and to continue to stabilize the slope. The
planning commission can require additional plantings of native hardwood trees
to aid in stabilization.
   J.   Fencing: Fencing can be included surrounding the development, but the
planning commission must approve the type and location. Fencing on steeper
slopes should be avoided.
   K.   Development Grades: Since the development is for senior living, road,
driveway, and usable open space areas shall be designed with gradual slope. No
road, driveway, sidewalk, or trail shall have a grade over six percent (6%).
   L.   Development Amenities: Senior housing overlay zone developments shall
include enhancement amenities that can include pocket park, trail or walking
path, finish garden area, benches, picnic or pavilion area, central barbecue,
upgraded signage and street furniture, ornamental yard pole lighting, entrance
monuments and gates (gates cannot be closed across a public street, but can be
permanently secured open as an entrance feature). The decision of what
amenities to include shall be negotiated between the developer, the planning
commission, and the city council. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008, eff. 6-17-2008)
10-11D-8: COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE:
All proposed development within the senior housing overlay zone shall be
reviewed and approved in accordance with the city of Elk Ridge subdivision
ordinance and with the following additions for concept approval:
   A.   Once the planning commission has given a recommendation of the
applicant's concept plan and the proposed zone change, the concept plan and
zone change will be forwarded to the city council for review. After the city
council reviews the concept plan, if the applicant chooses to continue the
project the applicant will continue the planning process in accordance with the
city of Elk Ridge subdivision ordinance. The planning commission shall continue
to move forward with the applicable general plan and zone change. The actual
general plan and zone change will coincide with city council's approval of the
final plat. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008, eff. 6-17-2008)
10-11D-9: COMPLIANCE WITH OVERLAY ZONE:
All proposed development within the senior housing overlay zone shall go
through the general plan and zone change process to have the property zoned for
the senior housing overlay zone. The planning commission will review the
proposed zone change along with the concept plan and send a recommendation to
the city council. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-2008, eff. 6-17-2008)
10-11D-10: DEVELOPER'S AGREEMENT:
All developments in senior housing overlay zone shall have a developer's
agreement outlining the terms and conditions of approval. (Ord. 08-8, 5-27-
2008, eff. 6-17-2008)
ARTICLE E. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
(Rep. by Ord. 18-1, 1-23-2018)
ARTICLE F. PLANNED MOUNTAIN HOME DEVELOPMENTS (MHD)
SECTION:
10-11F-1: Intent; Application
10-11F-2: Permitted Uses
10-11F-3: Planning And Documentation
10-11F-4: Procedure For Approval
10-11F-5: Density
10-11F-6: Minimum Project Area
10-11F-7: Dwelling Clusters
10-11F-8: Streets And Travelways
10-11F-9: Water
10-11F-10: Sewage Disposal
10-11F-11: Fire Protection
10-11F-12: Open Space
10-11F-13: Improvements
10-11F-14: Documentation
10-11F-15: Review Guidelines And Standards Adopted
10-11F-16: Area Of Dwellings
10-11F-1: INTENT; APPLICATION:
Planned mountain home developments may be constructed in those zones in which
they are specifically listed as a conditional use, subject to compliance with
the following conditions and procedures. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land may be permitted within an
MHD:
Access streets and roads, water and sewer systems and facilities, picnic areas,
corrals and similar common recreation areas and facilities for the use and
enjoyment of the members of the development.
Any use permitted in the CE-2 zone.
Walls, fences. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-3: PLANNING AND DOCUMENTATION:
Review and approval of a proposed project by the city shall be carried out
through the submission of a preliminary and final application as follows:
   A.   Preliminary Application And Plan:
      1.   The preliminary application and plan for approval of a planned
mountain home development shall contain:
         a.   A preliminary layout plan showing:
            (1)   The proposed layout of the project, including the location of
each development cluster area and each existing and proposed lot or building
site within the cluster;
            (2)   Common areas and facilities;
            (3)   Areas to be designated for open space;
            (4)   Roads and travelways;
            (5)   Location and size of existing and proposed water lines and
other utility facilities and the easements appurtenant thereto.
         b.   A contour map of the proposed project area.
         c.   Profile and cross sections of existing and proposed streets and
travelways.
         d.   A statement indicating the availability of water rights (private
systems only).
         e.   A preliminary statement of approval of the proposed water and
sewer facilities.
         f.   Preliminary copies of proposed organizational documents and open
space preservation agreement.
         g.   Such other materials as may be reasonably required by the
planning commission.
      2.   The layout plan and supplementary materials shall be prepared in
substantial compliance with the standards required for a preliminary plan of a
subdivision.
   B.   Final Plan:
      1.   The application and plan for final approval of the project shall
contain the following:
         a.   A final layout plan (final plat) showing:
            (1)   The boundaries of the project;
            (2)   The boundary of each development cluster;
            (3)   The location of each lot or building site;
            (4)   The location of all areas proposed for use as common areas
and open space areas;
            (5)   The location of all building setback lines; and
            (6)   The location of all utility and travel easements.
         b.   Final copies of organizational documents and open space
preservation agreement.
         c.   Copies of water rights documents.
         d.   Evidence of approval of the water system plan by the state health
department.
         e.   Estimates of the cost of constructing the required improvements
and a bond guaranteeing the installation of the required improvements. The
content of the estimates and bond shall be the same as required under the city
subdivision ordinance.
         f.   Evidence of approval of the sewage disposal facilities by the
city-county health department.
      2.   The final layout plan required hereunder shall be considered as the
final plan of the project and shall be prepared in accordance with the
requirements for a final plat of a subdivision and be suitable for recording in
the office of the county recorder.
      3.   In the instance of a development where building sites are to be held
in common ownership, the individual building sites within a cluster shall be
identified on the final plan, but need not be individually described. In such
instance, each development cluster shall be described and shall be considered
as a separate parcel.
      4.   Upon final approval by the city council the final plat, describing
the outer boundary of the project, the boundary of each development cluster,
each lot within the cluster (where individual lots are to be sold), the
designated open space areas and all parcels and easements for roads and other
common purposes shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder. (Ord.
10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-4: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
The procedure to be followed in securing approval of a large scale development
project shall be as follows:
   A.   Acquire Submission Materials: Any person desiring to undertake a large
scale development project within the city shall first acquire copies of the
relevant application materials and regulations relating to the type of large
scale development proposed for development. The purpose of this requirement is
to ensure that the developer is fully aware of the approval procedure, the
requirements and standards for design and construction of the project and the
content of the required documents and statements.
   B.   Preapplication Conference:
      1.   The developer shall prepare and present to the planning commission,
or their designated representatives, where applicable:
         a.   A sketch plan and general written description of the project.
         b.   A statement indicating the present ownership status of the land.
      2.   The purpose of the conference is to provide informal assistance to
the developer in the preparation of the plans early in the process and in a
form which will facilitate the required reviews and action by the planning
commission and other approval agencies.
      3.   Members of the planning commission or the designated representative
may suggest changes in the proposed layout or other materials in order that the
project may be more fully consistent with the city's general plan and also with
the city's development regulations and policies.
      4.   The sole purpose in holding the conference shall be to aid the
developer in the preparation of his plans and documents. In no way shall the
conference or any of the suggestions made therein be construed to constitute
approval of the plan or a waiver of compliance with any requirement of this
development code.
   C.   Developer Prepares And Submits Preliminary Plans And Documents:
      1.   Following the preapplication conference, the developer shall prepare
and submit the required preliminary plans and documents to the planning
commission or its designated representative. The materials submitted shall
include:
         a.   Copies of all required preliminary plans, documents and
statements.
         b.   Evidence of payment of the required review fee.
         c.   Evidence of compliance with the water rights conveyance
requirements of this development code.
      2.   The number of copies of application materials, time of submittal
prior to meetings, place of delivery and other particulars relating to the
application process shall be as determined, from time to time, by the planning
commission.
      3.   All submissions shall be prepared in accordance with city standards.
In order for the development to be placed on the agenda, all plans, documents
and submittals must be submitted to the planning commission office in
accordance with the submittal procedures in effect at the time of the request.
   D.   Planning Commission Review; Action; Public Hearing:
      1.   The planning commission shall review the preliminary plans,
documents and submittal materials and shall advertise and hold a public hearing
on the proposed project. The hearing shall be called, noticed and conducted by
the planning commission in accordance with current law. Following the public
hearing, the planning commission shall act to approve or disapprove the
proposal, approve it subject to modification, or table action subject to
modification.
      2.   Approval by the planning commission shall not constitute approval of
the project but shall be deemed as a finding that the project plan and
documents conform with the minimum requirements and intent of the development
code provisions relating to the specific project and a recommendation to the
city council regarding approval of the proposed project.
   E.   City Council Review: The city council shall review the preliminary
plans, documents and submittal materials, as recommended by the planning
commission, and shall issue a decision regarding approval.
   F.   City Council Action:
      1.   Determination:
         a.   Following the public hearing, the city council shall act upon the
preliminary plans, documents and submittal materials to approve, disapprove, or
approve subject to modification. If disapproved, no further action is required.
If approved subject to significant modification, the plans, documents and
submittal materials shall be returned to the planning commission with
instructions that the developer modify the plans and/or documents in accordance
with required changes and to resubmit the modified proposal to the planning
commission for its further review and recommendation.
         b.   If approved or approved with incidental modification, the
preliminary plans and documents shall be returned to the planning commission
with instruction to authorize the developer to proceed to prepare and submit
the final plans and documents through the planning commission.
      2.   Project Vested Upon City Council Motion: Upon passage of a motion by
the city council to approve the preliminary plans and documents, the project
shall be considered to have vested and the city shall be committed to grant
final approval of the final plans and documents, subject to compliance with all
procedures, standards, requirements and any conditions attached to said
approval related to the applicable large scale development.
      3.   Validity: Approval of the preliminary plans and documents shall be
valid for twelve (12) months from the date of action by the city council. The
time limit may be extended for an additional year upon approval by the city
council, subject to the prior recommendation of the planning commission. Any
extension of time shall be officially requested in writing, and submitted to
the planning commission office thirty one (31) days prior to the end of the
twelve (12) month preliminary approval period.
      4.   Final Approval Prior To Construction: No construction shall be
permitted until final approval of the development has been obtained from the
city council, in accordance with the following provisions.
   G.   Final Plats, Plans And Documents:
      1.   After receiving preliminary approval from the city council, the
developer shall prepare and submit to the planning commission:
         a.   Application for final approval.
         b.   A reproducible tracing suitable for recording, where applicable.
         c.   Copies of the final plat, plans, documents, statements and
engineering drawings.
         d.   An itemized estimate of the cost of constructing the required
improvements.
         e.   Evidence of payment of review and recording fee.
         f.   Documents conveying evidence of compliance with water rights
requirements of the city.
      2.   The number of copies for each of the above items shall be as
determined, from time to time, by the planning commission.
      3.   All submissions shall be prepared in accordance with city standards.
In order for the development to be placed on the agenda, the final plans, plat
and documents must be submitted to the planning commission office in accordance
with the submittal procedures in effect at the time of the request.
   H.   Planning Commission Acts On Final Plat, Plans, Documents And
Statements:
      1.   When the plans, plat, documents, cost estimates, and other materials
required for approval have been completed in final form, the developer may make
application to the planning commission, and the planning commission will grant
final approval after reviewing the final plan and ascertaining that:
         a.   The final plans conform with the conditions of the preliminary
approval.
         b.   The final plat complies with the requirements and standards
relating to the applicable type of large scale development.
         c.   The dedications, documents and statements comply with the
standards relating to mountain home development zone.
         d.   The estimates of cost of constructing the required improvements
are acceptable.
         e.   Tax liabilities of the common open space (wherever a development
involves the reservation of common open space) have been determined.
         f.   The proposed performance guarantee is in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 16 of this title and is in an amount sufficient to cover
the cost of the outstanding required improvements.
      2.   Upon a finding of approval, the planning commission chair shall be
authorized to sign required final plats.
   I.   Developer Submits Performance Guarantees: Upon approval of the final
plat by the planning commission, the applicant shall proceed to make
arrangements suitable to the city for posting a bond or other financial
assurance guaranteeing construction of all uncompleted required improvements.
Said performance guarantee shall be in conformance with the provisions of
chapter 16 of this title.
   J.   City Council Acts On Final Plans, Plats And Documents:
      1.   After the planning commission has approved the final plans, plats,
documents and other materials, a copy of the same shall be submitted to the
city council for its approval. The city council will review said materials and
also the proposed performance guarantees and, subject to a properly presented
motion, may approve said plans; execute all appropriate documents, agreements
and final plats; and accept all public dedications.
      2.   Final approval shall be by adoption and publication of an "ordinance
of approval" by the city council. The ordinance of approval shall identify the
territory included in the project and shall incorporate, by reference, all
applicable documents and materials.
      3.   Upon adoption and publication of the ordinance of approval, the
ordinance, together with the referenced plats, documents and materials shall be
considered as an amendment of the official zone map and constitute the specific
lot area and width, setback, access and similar requirements applicable to the
project area.
   K.   City Records Plats And Documents: Upon acceptance of the performance
guarantees, compliance with any conditions of approval, receipt of all executed
documents and passage and publication of the amending ordinance, the city shall
record, or cause to be recorded, all final plats, documentation and agreements
in the office of the county recorder and shall notify the developer to proceed
with construction.
   L.   Amendments: The plans, plats, documents and statements may be amended
by following the same procedure required for initial approval. No change shall
be made which is contrary to the intent of the city land use plan or the
standards and requirements of this development code. Any amendment of a
recorded final plat which also qualifies as a subdivision (division of the
property into 2 or more separate parcels) shall not be approved or recorded
until the existing recorded plat has been amended in accordance with the then
applicable requirements and procedures for amendment of subdivision plats.
(Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-5: DENSITY:
The maximum number of lots or dwelling sites permitted within a proposed
mountain home development shall be as determined by the planning commission,
upon a detailed slope analysis of the proposed project area, in accordance with
the following schedule:
 
    Percent Of Slope     Density
0 percent to 15 percent  1 lot per acre
15 percent to 30 percent 1 lot per 10 acres
30 percent and greater   1 lot per 20 acres
 
(Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-6: MINIMUM PROJECT AREA:
The minimum base area required to qualify for a planned mountain home
development project shall be one hundred (100) acres. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010,
eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-7: DWELLING CLUSTERS:
   A.   Location: All lots and all designated dwelling sites (for projects
where the building area is to be retained in common ownership) shall be located
within a designated development cluster. A project may contain more than one
development cluster. Each cluster shall contain not less than five (5) separate
building sites (except for developments having fewer than 5 building sites for
the entire development).
   B.   Area: Each individual lot or designated dwelling site shall contain an
area not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or more than two and
one-half (21/2) acres.
   C.   Buildable Area:
      1.   Each individual lot or building site shall contain at least one area
of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet which qualifies as a
"buildable area", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title. The location of each buildable area shall be designated
on the preliminary and final plans for the project (designated buildable area)
and a notation placed on the recorded plat that all main and accessory
buildings shall be located within the designated buildable area.
      2.   For purposes of compliance with this subsection, the designated
buildable area shall be determined based on its current natural state. No
portion of any designated buildable area shall contain territory which has been
subject to artificial grading or which requires grading in order to comply,
except the city council, with the prior recommendation of the planning
commission, may approve minor inclusions of incidental areas having a slope of
twenty percent (20%) or greater as part of the designated buildable area upon a
finding that the requested area comprises an incidental part of the lot and
that the inclusion of the area will not be inimical to the intent of the
standard or the purpose of the zone.
   D.   Access: Each lot or building site shall abut upon and have direct
access to a city street or designated private travel way. The distance of the
abutting side shall be not less than one hundred feet (100'), except that the
length of the abutting side may be reduced to not less than seventy feet (70')
in instances where the lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac or sharp curve and the side
lot lines radiate in such a manner that the width of the lot measured at a
point not less than forty feet (40') from the front lot line will meet the
minimum width requirements of this section.
   E.   Setback: Each dwelling in the project shall be set back from the lot
boundary line in accordance with the setback line as shown on the approved
plat, except that where the dwelling sites are to remain in common ownership
and no setback lines are shown on the plan, no portion of any occupied
structure shall be located closer than eighty feet (80') to another occupied
structure.
   F.   Slope: Up to ten percent (10%) of the area of a lot or building site
may consist of territory having a slope in excess of thirty percent (30%), as
shown on the slope analysis map. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-8: STREETS AND TRAVELWAYS:
   A.   Access: Each development cluster and each lot or designated dwelling
site within a development cluster shall front upon and have direct access to a
designated city street or a private vehicular travelway. Where access is to be
provided over a private travelway, ownership of said travelways shall be held
by the homeowners' association from the point of connection to an existing
public street and throughout the project area.
   B.   Improvement Required: All existing public streets and all streets
proposed to be dedicated to the public shall be improved in accordance with
city standards for public streets. All vehicular travelways intended to remain
in private ownership shall be improved in accordance with city standards for
mountain home developments.
   C.   Road Slope: No street shall have a grade of more than eight percent
(8%), except that the planning commission may approve up to a ten percent (10%)
grade for short straight stretches of roadway under three hundred feet (300')
in length. The commission must conclude that the eight percent (8%) standard
would result in undesirable extra earthwork or circuitous routes and that the
proposed steep grade section will not result in the establishment of a
hazardous condition. It is the responsibility of the developer to present
evidence that the additional allowance in grade is desirable. The city engineer
and fire chief shall provide recommendation regarding hazardous conditions and
any other concerns on the proposed steep grade sections. It must also be
demonstrated that for dead end or temporary stubbed streets constructed on
grades over eight percent (8%), that the road shall not be constructed in a
manner that would make adjacent future development be out of compliance with
the three hundred foot (300') requirement.
   D.   Slope: No street or travelway providing access to a development cluster
shall be constructed in a location or in such a manner which results in the
creation of a slope face exceeding the critical angle of repose or a disturbed
cross section which exceeds the cut and fill slope standards for streets in the
city. Any driveway providing access to a buildable area shall have a slope of
not more than twelve percent (12%) and shall not result in any cut or fill
slopes greater than seven feet (7'). Any cut or fill between five (5) and seven
feet (7') shall be subject to planning commission and city council review.
   E.   Stabilization And Revegetation: All disturbed cut and fill slope areas
shall be stabilized and revegetated. The submittal materials for any planned
mountain development project shall include a detailed revegetation plan showing
the intended revegetation treatment for all cut and fill slope areas and the
performance guarantees amounts shall include the cost of revegetation. (Ord.
10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
   F.   Continuous Circulation; Cul-De-Sacs: To the maximum extent possible,
the design of the road/travelway system shall provide for continuous
circulation throughout the project. Cul-de-sacs (dead end roads) shall be
allowed only where unusual and extenuating circumstances exist. All cul-de-sacs
shall conform to section
10-15C-5, "Cul-De-Sacs", of this title. (Ord. 16-2, 8-23-2016)
   G.   Easement: An easement granting the city the right of access upon all
private travelways for city purposes shall be provided. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010,
eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-9: WATER:
   A.   Each lot or building site shall be served by the city water system;
provided, that the city may approve the use of a private system upon a finding
that connection to the city system is not reasonably feasible and that such
proposed private system will conform to the standards of a public water system
and be approved by the state health department.
   B.   Where a private system is to be used, documentation shall be submitted
with the application showing that the water supply shall be from a source
capable of providing an adequate flow to meet the needs of all lots or building
sites shown on the final plat and that the collection works, storage reservoirs
and distribution line shall be sufficient in size to provide a volume of flow
and level of pressure adequate for both culinary and fire protection in
accordance with that document entitled "Wildfire Hazards And Residential
Development" hereinafter adopted.
   C.   Where the requirements of the standards, relating to storage and flow
for firefighting purposes, adopted pursuant to section
10-11F-15 of this article, are at variance with the provisions of the city's
fire code, the provisions adopted by this article shall prevail.
   D.   Where a private water system is proposed, satisfactory evidence of an
entitlement to a permanent year round right to the use of water in an amount
adequate for all lots or building sites proposed for final approval shall be
submitted with the application. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-10: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
Each lot or dwelling site shall be served by a central sewage collection and
disposal system. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-11: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Spacing: Fire hydrant spacing shall conform to the standards adopted
pursuant to section
10-11F-15 of this article, except that in no case shall a lot or dwelling site
be more than two hundred fifty feet (250') from the closest hydrant.
   B.   State Recommendations: The proposed plan shall, to the maximum extent
practicable, incorporate the recommendations of the state department of natural
resources as contained within the document adopted under section
10-11F-15 of this article. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-12: OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Required: All areas of the project not included within lots or building
sites, used for roads or travelways and developed common facilities shall be
designated as common open space for the use and enjoyment of the occupants of
the development.
   B.   Preservation Agreement: To assure that the designated open space area
will remain as open space, the applicants/owners shall execute an open space
preservation agreement with the city in which the owner agrees to refrain from
excavating, making additional roadways, installing additional utilities or
constructing any dwellings or other structures within the designated open space
area without the prior approval of the city.
   C.   Included Area: The designated open space area shall include and contain
all 100-year floodplain areas, defined floodways, all avalanche and rock fall
hazard areas, all areas having a slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater
(except those portions included as part of a lot pursuant to section
10-11F-7 of this article), or any other area of known significant physical
hazard for development. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-13: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Required; Minimum Standards: The following improvements shall be
constructed in all developments. All required improvements shall meet minimum
city standards and any such improvements not in place prior to the approval of
the final plat by the city council shall be installed by the developer prior to
the October 1 next following the date of final plat approval; provided,
however, that upon a showing of good and sufficient cause (i.e., lateness of
the final approval date, unexpected delays, etc.), the city council may extend
the date of completion or authorize a longer period of time for completing
construction of part or all of the uncompleted improvements to a date not more
distant than July 1 of the next succeeding year.
   B.   Performance Guarantee: A performance guarantee securing the
installation of all required improvements which have not been completed and
accepted by the city council prior to final plat approval shall be required as
a condition of final plat approval. The performance guarantee shall be in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 16 of this title.
   C.   Included Minimum Improvements: The minimum improvements shall include:
      1.   Streets and travelways, and including provisions for stabilization
and revegetation of cut and fill slopes.
      2.   Water and sewerage mains and facilities.
      3.   Fire hydrants.
      4.   Any required drainage or flood control structures.
      5.   Any required restoration of cut and fill slopes.
      6.   The costs of installing landscaping and common facilities within any
common open space area.
      7.   Secondary irrigation water system. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-
2010)
10-11F-14: DOCUMENTATION:
The following documents and statements shall be submitted as part of the
application for approval:
   A.   Organizational documents (articles of incorporation, bylaws, etc.).
   B.   Open space preservation agreement.
   C.   Letters or other statements from health authority regarding approval of
water and sewer systems.
   D.   Water rights documents, service agreements from water company, as
applicable.
   E.   Conveyance to city of right of access on private travelways for city
purposes. (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-15: REVIEW GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS ADOPTED:
In conducting its review, the planning commission and the city council shall be
guided by the terms of this title and the recommendations contained within that
certain document entitled "Wildfire Hazards And Residential Development" as
prepared by the state department of natural resources, 1986 printing, which
document is by this reference adopted for use by the city; and also the terms
and conditions set forth under the urban/wildland interface ordinance (see
title 9, chapter 3 of the city code). (Ord. 10-3, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-11F-16: AREA OF DWELLINGS:
For dwelling size requirements, see supplemental regulations, section
10-12-41 of this title. (Ord. 12-8, 12-11-2012)
CHAPTER 12
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Intent
10-12-2: Yard Space For One Building Only
10-12-3: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space Prohibited
10-12-4: Each Dwelling To Be On A Zoning Lot
10-12-5: Accessory Building Regulations
10-12-6: Accessory Building Prohibited As Living Quarters
10-12-7: Storage Of Junk And Debris Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 10-4, 1-26-2010,
eff. 2-11-2010)
10-12-8: Yards To Be Unobstructed; Projections Excepted
10-12-9: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-12-10: Setback Of Buildings From Proposed Streets
10-12-11: Additional Height Allowed For Public Buildings
10-12-12: Drainage
10-12-13: Fences, Walls And Hedges
10-12-14: Utility Buildings And Structures Permitted In Residential Zones
10-12-15: Off Street Parking
10-12-16: Temporary Uses
10-12-17: Home Occupations
10-12-18: Public Buildings And Structures To Be Approved
10-12-19: Site Plan Review
10-12-20: Recreation Vehicles And Mobile Homes Prohibited As Dwellings
10-12-21: Connection To Utility Services Required
10-12-22: Residences For Persons With A Disability
10-12-23: Signs And Advertising Structures
10-12-24: Minimum Level Of Improvements Installed Before Issuance Of Building
Permit
10-12-25: Flag Lot Development (Rep. by Ord. 08-9, 7-8-2008)
10-12-26: Storage Of Commercial Vehicles And Equipment In Residential Zones
10-12-27: Special Provisions Relating To Dwellings
10-12-28: Low Power Radio Service Antenna Facilities (Cellular Phone
Transmission Towers And Facilities)
10-12-29: Accessory Apartments
10-12-30: Zone Development Standards; Exception
10-12-31: Assisted Living Facilities
10-12-32: Water Rights Conveyed To City; Exceptions
10-12-33: Conditional Use Permits
10-12-34: Development Of Sloped Land
10-12-35: Lot Orientation
10-12-36: Landscaping Requirements; Residential And Commercial
10-12-37: Approval Processes And Requirements
10-12-38: Fire Sprinkling Systems Requirements
10-12-39: Residential Building Height
10-12-40: Residential Facilities For Elderly Persons
10-12-41: Dwelling Size Requirements For Residential Zones
10-12-42: Reasonable Accommodation
10-12-43: Outdoor Lighting Requirements
10-12-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to provide for several miscellaneous land
development standards which are applicable in more than one zone. The
requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to development standards
contained within the various zones. Where the provisions of this chapter may be
in conflict with other provisions of this Development Code, the more stringent
shall prevail. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-12-2: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
All required yards (setback areas) shall be situated on the same lot as the
building or structure to which it applies. No required yard, area or other open
space around a building or use which is needed to comply with the area, setback
or open space requirements of this Development Code shall be considered as
providing the required area, yard, setback or open space for any other building
or use; nor shall any area, yard, setback or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing the area, setback or open space
requirement of a building or use. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-12-3: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE PROHIBITED:
No space needed to meet the area, frontage, width, coverage, off street
parking, frontage on a public street, or other requirement of this Development
Code for a lot or building may be sold, bequeathed or leased apart from such
lot or building unless other space so complying is provided, nor shall any land
be sold which will result in an existing or future lot that does not comply
with all of the provisions of this Development Code. Any lot or parcel created
in violation of this provision shall not acquire the status of a nonconforming
lot of record or otherwise be considered as a zoning lot. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-
1997)
10-12-4: EACH DWELLING TO BE ON A ZONING LOT:
Only one building which contains a dwelling shall be located and maintained on
each zoning lot. (Ord. 07-13, 9-25-2007, eff. 9-28-2007)
10-12-5: ACCESSORY BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following shall be
used as definitions:
    ACCESSORY BUILDING: An accessory building for both residential and
nonresidential development is defined as a building that:
      1.   Is detached from the principal building and is more than six feet
(6') away from the principal building.
      2.   Is clearly a supplementary use to the principal building. It may not
be a standalone dwelling unit.
      3.   Is not used as the primary dwelling or place of residence.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure that does not provide shelter from
elements. Examples may include swimming pools, pool screening and decking,
waterfalls, fountains and barbecue pits with concrete foundations, decorative
ponds, or decks. Not included in this section are driveways, fences, walls,
curbing, portable fountains, birdbaths, benches, or mobile barbecue pits.
   BUILDING: A permanent or semipermanent structure with a roof and walls
usually used as a place for people to live, work, play, do activities, or store
things.
   GARAGE, DETACHED: A permanent building with footings that is enclosed on all
sides by walls and/or doors and designed primarily for the shelter of motor
vehicles. A detached garage is an accessory building.
   PORTABLE ACCESSORY BUILDING:
      1.   A building that is two hundred (200) square feet or less.
      2.   A semipermanent structure with no concrete footings or concrete
floor and is on skids or some type of device that will allow for easy
relocation.
      3.   Does not exceed twelve feet (12') in height from the lowest part of
the structure to the top.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING: Also known as the main building on a lot where most of
the activity on that lot is performed. Garages, carports or other buildings
attached to the principal building or that are within six feet (6') of the
principal building shall be considered as part of that principal building.
   ROOF ONLY BUILDING: Consists of a roof and roof support structure. Up to
three (3) sides may be covered but the sides must not be part of the support
structures for the roof. A roof only building is an accessory building. A
conditional use permit is required if a roof only building is larger than seven
hundred (700) square feet.
   SIDE YARD FOR DETERMINING ANY ACCESSORY BUILDING COVERED AREA: The area
between the front wall plane of the principal building and the rear wall plane
of the principal building and the area between the side wall plane of the
principal building and the side yard property line.
   B.   Prohibited Accessory Building Uses:
      1.   The primary dwelling or place of residence.
      2.   Hazardous chemical storage unless specifically permitted by the
city.
      3.   Sleeping quarters or housing used for short term rentals.
   C.   Prohibited Accessory Buildings And Structures: The following are
prohibited:
      1.   Tents (when used more than 2 weeks in a 2 month period).
      2.   Trailers and mobile homes (when used as an accessory building).
      3.   Cargo containers, reefer containers, semitrailers of any type.
      4.   Any other object or enclosed space which its intended primary
function as constructed or manufactured differs from its proposed purpose as an
accessory building.
      5.   A prohibited item may be approved for use as an accessory building
by the planning commission if the item is modified in such a way that the
planning commission determines that the item is aesthetically consistent with
the principal building and surroundings and will continue to maintained as
such.
      6.   In a residential only zone, where no principal building exists on a
lot, an accessory building or roof only building is prohibited.
   D.   Accessory Building Coverage Area: Accessory buildings may not cover
more than fifteen percent (15%) of the combined total area of the rear and side
yards nor more than eight percent (8%) of the total area, whichever is less.
   E.    Accessory Building or Structure Setbacks: All accessory buildings or
structures shall be located in accordance with the following:
      1.   Front Setback:
         a.   Any accessory building portable or otherwise shall be placed
behind the front setback as defined for primary buildings in Chapter 10 of this
code.
         b.   Any accessory structure except for waterfalls, fountains, or
decorative ponds shall be placed behind the front setback as defined for
primary buildings in Chapter 10 of this code.
      2.   Side Setback; Corner Lot, Side Abutting Street:
         a.   Any accessory building portable or otherwise shall be placed
behind the side setback or the side yard street abutting setback if a corner
lot. Line of sight shall be maintained at all intersections in accordance with
section
10-12-9 of this chapter.
         b.   Any accessory structure except for waterfalls, fountains, or
decorative ponds shall be placed behind the side setback or the side yard
street abutting setback if a corner lot.
      3.   Side and Rear Setback; Interior Lot Line:
         a.   Any accessory building or an accessory structure shall be located
a minimum of eight feet (8') from the property line and not located on a public
utility easement.
         b.   Portable accessory buildings may be placed on a public utility
easement; but the owner or successor in interest shall be responsible for
moving and for any associated costs for moving the building in the event public
utilities need to do work within the public utility easement.
      4.   Setback From Principal Building: Accessory buildings which are
located six feet (6') or less from the principal building shall be considered
part of the main building. Setbacks shall be the same as those for the
principal building, and all current building codes shall apply.
   F.   Accessory Building Maximum Height: An accessory building is not to
exceed thirty feet (30') in height from the lowest part of the structure, which
is the bottom of the lowest sill plate or top of main floor (nearest ground
level), whichever is lower, to the highest point on the roof. Maximum portable
accessory building height is per subsection 3 of the definition of "portable
accessory building" of this section.
   G.   Building Permit Required:
      1.   Any accessory building or accessory structure not meeting the
definition of a "portable accessory building" as defined in this section shall
have a building permit issued before work commences.
      2.   A portable accessory building shall require a permit and inspection
if one or more of the following applies:
         a.   Solar panels are permanently installed.
         b.   One hundred twenty (120) volt or greater electrical system is
permanently installed.
         c.   Connected to any utility such as electric, natural gas,
telephone, cable, city culinary water or sanitary sewer system. The addition of
utilities may change the building status from portable accessory building to
accessory building and will depend on the utilities connected. The
determination of the building status will be made by Elk Ridge City staff.
   H.   Conditional Use Permit Required: A roof only building exceeding seven
hundred (700) square feet may be permitted following conditional use approval
by the Planning Commission in accordance with section
10-12-33 of this chapter. (In no case, shall the roof only building area exceed
the allowable areas in subsection D of this section.) The roof only building
shall conform to the setbacks found in the applicable building zone where it
will be located.
   I.   Drainage: No drainage from the roof of any accessory building or roof
only building may be discharged onto an adjacent lot, public street, or right-
of-way.
   J.   Nonconforming Uses: All accessory buildings not in compliance at the
time of adoption hereof are hereby grandfathered and are allowed to continue
undisturbed. Any subsequent modification to an accessory building or to the use
of that building shall require the prevailing code to be followed. (Ord. 16-5,
9-27-2016; amd. Ord. 20-01, 1-14-2020; Ord. 21-01, 2-9-2021; Ord. 21-11, 12-17-
2021; Ord. 22-03, 5-10-2022)
10-12-6: ACCESSORY BUILDING PROHIBITED AS LIVING QUARTERS:
Living and sleeping quarters shall not be permitted in any accessory building
unless the quarters are constructed and occupied as an accessory apartment in
accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 07-13, 9-25-2007, eff. 9-28-2007; Ord. 21-
11, 12-17-2021)
10-12-7: STORAGE OF JUNK AND DEBRIS PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 10-4, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
10-12-8: YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; PROJECTIONS EXCEPTED:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and unobstructed except
for permitted accessory buildings and except for ordinary and customary
projection of sills, belt courses, cornices, eaves, bay windows and fireplace
keys not wider than eight feet (8'), and other ornamental features and
unenclosed steps and unwalled stoops, and porches, which may project up to
three feet (3') into a required yard. No portion of any building shall be
closer than three feet (3') to any property line. (Ord. 01-4-10-7, 4-10-2001,
eff. 4-10-2001)
10-12-9: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all zones which require a front setback, no fence or structure in excess of
thirty six inches (36") in height which will prevent a clear view to automobile
drivers of approaching vehicles or pedestrians shall be placed on a corner lot
within a triangular area formed by the street right-of-way lines and a line
connecting them at points forty five feet (45') from the point of intersection
of said street lines (clear vision area). Trees and other landscaping plantings
are permitted within the clear vision area, provided they are pruned and
trimmed to a height of not more than thirty six inches (36") nor less than
seven feet (7') above the established grade so as to not obstruct the clear
view of motor vehicle drivers. Landscape earth berms shall also be permitted
within the clear vision area, provided they are not of such a height as to
obstruct the clear view of motor vehicle drivers. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-12-10: SETBACK OF BUILDINGS FROM PROPOSED STREETS:
The front or side setback for structures abutting on a proposed future street
or an existing street needing to be widened, as shown on the major street plan
as a future street, shall be measured from the planned street line. For
purposes of determining the setback requirement and similar location standards,
said planned street line shall be considered as the property line. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-12-11: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
Public buildings and churches in residential zones may be erected to any
height, provided the building is set back from required building setback lines
a distance of at least one foot (1') for each additional foot of building
height above the maximum height otherwise permitted in the zone in which the
building is located. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-12-12: DRAINAGE:
Surface water from rooftops shall not be allowed to drain onto adjacent lots or
streets, except after written agreement between the two (2) parties. Surface
drainage from corrals, pens or coops shall not be permitted to drain into a
waterway that drains into a natural stream. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-12-13: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   A.   No fence or wall shall be placed in a manner that would deter the fire
department from immediately discerning and gaining access to any fire hydrant
or other fire protection device. Fences and walls shall be located to maintain
a minimum of three feet of clearance around the circumference of any fire
hydrant.
   B.   Retaining Walls Not Included: For the purpose of this section, the term
"wall" shall not include retaining walls.
   C.   Height: The maximum height for fencing, walls, hedges, and similarly
enclosing planting, whether or not sight obscuring, shall be eight feet (8')
above finished grade level. Fences may be permitted in excess of eight feet
(8') in accordance with any subsection listed here after. A building permit is
required for any fence over seven (7) feet in height, as required by Utah State
Code, or as required by the currently adopted Building Code. Fences in excess
of eight (8') feet may require Engineer approval. No fence, wall, hedge or
similarly enclosing planting or structure shall be permitted in the front
setback and/or clear view area of a lot at a height greater than thirty-six
inches (36") above the finished grade level.
   D.   Retaining Walls: All retaining walls shall be designed in accordance
with accepted engineering and building practices as per the applicable
International Building Code (IBC), the International Residential Code (IRC),
state code, and current city building code. Retaining walls over four (4") feet
in height, measured from the bottom of the final finished grade of the exposed
wall, require a building permit. Retaining walls with an exposed face of
greater than ten (10) feet in height shall be terraced with each segment being
no greater than ten(10) feet in height. Terracing shall not be required when in
the case of retaining walls constructed for the purpose of providing support
for external basement stairways. Fencing atop retaining walls shall adhere to
the fencing section of this code.
   E.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, a sight obscuring fence, wall, hedge and
similarly enclosing planting or structure having a height of more than thirty
six inches (36") may not extend into the front setback area and clear vision
area of the lot as defined under section
10-12-9 of this chapter. Placement of a fence, wall or hedge in the location
proposed shall not result in the establishment of a hazardous condition as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   F.   Double Frontage Lots: On double frontage lots, a sight obscuring fence,
wall, hedge and similarly enclosing planting or structure may be placed along
the rear property line with the exception of the clear vision area provided
that the placement will not result in the establishment of a hazardous
condition to adjacent properties, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   G.   Material, Design And Construction: All fences and walls shall be of
appropriate design and construction and the design and construction should be
consistent with the nature, type, and aesthetics of other such improvements
within the surrounding area.
   H.   Nonconforming; Referral; Appeal: Where, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, a proposed or existing fence, wall, hedge and similarly
enclosing planting or structure does not conform to the above criteria, he or
she shall immediately pursue the removal of the planting or structure or the
correction of issues that may exist causing violation of the provisions herein
or refer the application back to the applicant for correction, as applicable.
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Administrator may appeal said
decision to the Appeal Authority, who shall have the authority, as an appeal
under the terms of the Utah State Code, to reverse or affirm any decision of
the Zoning Administrator.
   I.   Tennis Courts, Sport Courts, Batting Cages, Etc.: Fence type enclosures
for uses such as tennis courts, sport courts, swimming pools, ball diamond
backstops, batting cages, etc., may be erected to a height not greater than
twelve feet (12'), including any retaining walls, provided:
      1.   Any enclosure or part of an enclosure over seven feet (7') in height
will require engineering and a building permit as defined by Utah State Code,
or as required by the currently adopted Building Code, and may require Engineer
approval.
      2.   Portions of the enclosure may be located within the rear and/or side
area of the lot.
      3.   No part of the enclosure shall be placed in the front yard setback
area of a lot.
      4.   All portions of the enclosure above a height of eight feet (8')
shall be non-sight obscuring.
      5.   On corner lots, the enclosure shall not be located in the front
setback area and clear vision area of the lot as defined under section
10-12-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-6, 5-8-2018; amd. Ord. 22-01, 3-8-2022; Ord.
22-08, 10-11-2022; Ord. 24-2, 1-9-2024)
10-12-14: UTILITY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
Utility buildings and structures such as electric buildings and substations may
be constructed in all residential zones, but only after the Appeal Authority
has approved as a special exception. The Appeal Authority may require
conditions which are reasonably necessary to protect surrounding property
values and residential amenities. (Ord. 01-11-27-17, 11-27-2001, eff. 12-27-
2001; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
10-12-15: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Intent: Regulations relating to off street parking have been
established to increase safety and lessen congestion in the public streets, to
provide adequately for parking needs associated with the development of land
and increased automobile usage, to set standards for off street parking
according to the amount of traffic generated by each use, and to reduce the on
street storage of vehicles. (Ord. 01-11-27-17, 11-27-2001, eff. 12-27-2001)
   B.   Number Of Off Street Parking Spaces:
      1.   One- And Two-Family Dwellings: Not less than two (2) off street
parking spaces shall be required for each dwelling unit. Each off street
parking space shall be not less than ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') per
space and shall not be located within any portion of the required setback area
adjacent to a street. Not less than two (2) of the off street parking spaces
appurtenant to a dwelling shall be enclosed within a garage.
      2.   Multiple-Family Dwellings: Not less than three (3) off street
parking spaces shall be required for each dwelling unit. Each off street
parking space shall be not less than ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') per
space. Not less than two (2) of the off street parking spaces appurtenant to a
dwelling shall be enclosed within a garage. (Ord. 07-14, 9-25-2007, eff. 9-28-
2007)
      3.   Commercial Zones And Public Facilities Within Residential Areas:
         a.   Any such development shall provide a minimum of five (5) spaces
per one thousand (1,000) square feet of the facility. Parking spaces must be a
minimum of ten feet (10') wide and twenty feet (20') long, allowing a minimum
of twenty four feet (24') for any aisle between rows of parking spaces. Off
street parking will not be permitted in any fire lane or aisle space.
Additionally, each facility shall provide handicapped accessible parking in
accordance to the following minimums and meet the Americans With Disabilities
Act (ADA) requirements. All parking must be hard surfaced.
Total Parking Spaces Present Handicapped Accessible
Total Parking Spaces Present Handicapped Accessible
   1 to 25                1
   26 to 50               2
   51 to 75               3
   76 to 100              4
   101 to 150             5
   151 to 200             6
   201 to 300             7
   301 to 400             8
   401 to 500             9
   501 to 1,000           2 percent
   1,001 and over         20 plus 1 space for every 100 spaces over 1,000
 
         b.   The lighting used to illuminate parking areas shall be such that
it reflects light downward and away from adjacent properties. Landscaping for
such developments shall provide a buffer from streets and adjoining properties,
measuring a distance deemed suitable by the Planning Commission and City
Council. All such landscaping should be consistent with the standards of the
zone and that of adjoining properties, unless otherwise stipulated by the
Planning Commission and City Council.
      4.   Public Facilities Within Residential Areas:
         a.   Such facilities include dentist and doctor offices, City
buildings, libraries, schools, churches and other such developments, as
determined by the Planning Commission and/or City Council. Any such development
shall provide a minimum of three and one-half (31/2) spaces per one thousand
(1,000) square feet of the facility. Parking spaces must be a minimum of ten
feet (10') wide and twenty feet (20') long, allowing a minimum of twenty four
feet (24') for any aisle between rows of parking spaces. Off street parking
will not be permitted in any fire lane or aisle space. Additionally, each
facility shall provide handicapped accessible parking in accordance to the
minimums specified in subsection B3a of this section and meet the Americans
With Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements. All parking must be hard surfaced.
         b.   The lighting used to illuminate parking areas shall be such that
it reflects light downward and away from adjacent properties. Landscaping for
such developments shall provide a buffer from streets and adjoining properties,
measuring a distance deemed suitable by the Planning Commission and City
Council. All such landscaping should be consistent with the standards of the
zone and that of adjoining properties, unless otherwise stipulated by the
Planning Commission and City Council. (Ord. 01-11-27-17, 11-27-2001, eff. 12-
27-2001; amd. Ord. 07-14, 9-25-2007, eff. 9-28-2007)
10-12-16: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Intent: The following regulations are provided to accommodate certain
uses which are temporary or seasonal in nature.
   B.   Permitted Temporary Uses: Certain uses may be permitted on a temporary
basis in any zone when approved by the City Administration:
      Short term special event - less than ten (10) days
      Extended temporary/Seasonal - not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days
at the discretion of city administration.
   C.   Application For Temporary Use: Prior to the establishment of any
temporary use, an application for a temporary use permit shall be submitted to
and approved by the City Administration. Said application shall contain the
following information:
      1.   Applicant information.
      2.   A description of the proposed use.
      3.   A description of the property to be used, for the temporary use,
including all information necessary to accurately portray the property.
      4.   Sufficient information to determine the yard requirements, sanitary
facilities, and availability of parking space to service the proposed use.
      5.   A copy of the lease agreement or other evidence of the right of the
applicant to occupy the proposed site.
      6.   Indemnity and Hold Harmless Clause signed by applicant.
   D.   Approval Required: The city administration may approve said
application, provided the city administration finds that:
      1.   The proposed use is legal in nature, meets the requirement of the
application and is of reasonable request.
      2.   The proposed use will not create excessive traffic hazards or other
unsafe conditions in the area, and that if traffic control is required, it will
be provided at the expense of the applicant.
      3.   The proposed use shall occupy the site for a period as defined in
the application which shall be in accordance with any constraints as set forth
in state law.
      4.   The applicant will have applicable licenses and permits, applicable
insurance and potential bonding for the requested use or event.
      5.   The applicant shall provide, at their own expense, for the
restoration of the site to its original condition, including cleanup and
replacement of facilities as may be necessary.
      6.   Accessibility to sanitation, solid waste disposal, and other
required services of the proposed use.
      7.   The proposed use is not a prohibited use or specifically called out
in another section of Elk Ridge City Code as restricted or not permitted.
      8.   All required fees have been paid.
   E.   City Administration Authority To Cancel The Permit.
      1.   In granting approval, the city administration may attach additional
conditions as they deem appropriate to ensure that the use will not pose any
detriment to persons or property. The city administration if deemed necessary
may require public comment and City Council approval.
      2.   City administration has the authority to cancel a permit if
applicant does not follow the conditions of the application. City
administration has the authority to cancel the permit if the event has been
misrepresented.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 19-07, 10-8-2019; Ord. 25-01, 3-11-2025)
10-12-17: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Intent: The following regulations have been established to provide
minimum standards for the establishment and operation of home occupations
within residential zones.
   B.   Application And Approval Required: Home occupations may be permitted by
the zoning administrator, or such other person or board (hereafter referred to
as "designated approval authority"), as may be delegated by the city council,
following receipt of an application and subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Home occupations are listed as a permitted use in the zone.
      2.   The home occupation is conducted entirely within a dwelling.
      3.   The home occupation does not involve the use of any accessory
buildings or yard space for storage or activities outside of the dwelling.
      4.   The home occupation shall contain no facilities for the display of
goods. Any sale of goods and services shall constitute a clearly incidental
part of the operation of the home occupation.
      5.   No commercial vehicles are used except one delivery truck which does
not exceed three-fourths (3/4) ton rated capacity.
      6.   The home occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character of the
building from that of a dwelling.
      7.   Signs shall be limited to one identification nameplate, constructed
and installed in accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-12-23B1c of this chapter.
      8.   Not more than the equivalent of twenty five percent (25%) of the
ground floor area of the dwelling is devoted to the home occupation.
      9.   The home occupation shall obtain a business license from the city.
      10.   Entrance to the home occupation from outside shall be the same
entrance normally used by the residing family except when required otherwise by
regulation of the state health department or other public agency.
      11.   The physical appearance, traffic, parking space and other
activities in connection with the home occupation are not contrary to the
intent of the zone in which the home occupation is located and do not
depreciate surrounding values as determined by the zoning administrator.
      12.   Business activity may be conducted by the residing family and not
more than three (3) persons not residing in the dwelling where the home
occupation takes place, subject to the following:
         a.   The individual holding the business license must make a statement
on the business renewal application regarding the number of employees working
in the home and if the nature of the business has changed in any manner. All
business licenses are subject to this provision upon renewal.
         b.   The holder of a home occupation business license is responsible
to comply with all county, state and federal regulations, such as, but not
limited to, fire codes, building codes, OSHA safety requirements, EPA, FICA,
the Americans with disabilities act (ADA), etc., which are applicable to their
business.
   C.   Conditions May Be Attached: In order to achieve the objectives of this
development code and to protect the health, safety and quality of life in the
community, the designated approval authority may attach conditions to the
granting of a home occupation consistent with the standards hereinabove stated.
   D.   Review; Appeal:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by a determination of the designated approval
authority may request a review before the city council who shall have the
authority to reverse, affirm or modify any decision of the approval authority.
Any such request for review shall be filed with the city recorder within ten
(10) days of the determination of the designated approval authority. (2003
Code)
      2.   Any person aggrieved by a determination of the city council may
request a hearing before the appeal authority who shall have the authority to
reverse, affirm or modify any decision of the city council. Any such appeal
shall be filed with the city recorder within ten (10) days of the determination
of the city council.
   E.   Continuing Obligation; Business License Required:
      1.   All home occupations shall be operated in compliance with the
conditions hereinabove set forth and any conditions which may be attached as
part of the approval. Upon approval of a home occupation, the applicant shall
be eligible to acquire a business license to operate. Issuance of the business
license shall be conditioned upon continued performance of the conditions of
approval and said license shall be refused or revoked upon failure of the owner
and/or operator to maintain or operate the home occupation in accordance
therewith.
      2.   The approval shall be valid two (2) years from the date of issuance.
Thereafter, the approval will be extended for successive two (2) year periods,
upon renewal; provided, that: a) the home occupation remains substantially the
same as initially approved; and b) the home occupation has remained active as
evidenced by the acquisition of a valid business license for the previous two-
year period.
   F.   Termination Of Approval Permitted; Procedure: The city may revoke the
approval of the home occupation or refuse renewal of the business license upon
a determination made by the city council, following notice and hearing on the
matter, that the home occupation is not in compliance with the provisions of
this section or the conditions attached at the time of approval. The zoning
administrator shall have a reasonable right of entry for the purpose of
inspection of the premises to determine compliance with the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 98-12-8-13, 12-8-1998; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007; Ord. 20-05, - -2020)
10-12-18: PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES TO BE APPROVED:
Prior to the construction of any building or other structure by a local
governmental entity (i.e., school district, county, special service district)
within the city, a site plan for the same shall be submitted to and approved by
the city in accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-12-19: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Wherever the terms of this title require submission and approval of a site
plan, such review shall be conducted in accordance with the following
provisions:
   A.   Application Required: Application for site plan approval shall be
submitted and reviewed in accordance with section
10-12-37 of this chapter. (Ord. 04-6, 7-13-2004, eff. 8-13-2004)
   B.   Approval Of Site Plan; Appeals Permitted: All reviewing bodies shall
review all proposed site plans and shall issue all decisions within a
reasonable time. Any person aggrieved by a determination of any reviewing body
may request in writing a hearing before the appeal authority who shall have the
authority to reverse, affirm, or modify any decision of the reviewing body. Any
such appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the determination of the
reviewing body. (Ord. 04-6, 7-13-2004, eff. 8-13-2004; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-
2007)
   C.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued for any use,
building, structure or external alterations thereto which requires site plan
approval until the provisions of section
10-12-37 of this chapter have been complied with. Any construction not in
conformance with an approved site plan shall be considered a violation of this
title.
   D.   Business License Not To Be Issued Without Site Plan Approval: No
business license shall be issued for any use requiring site plan approval until
such approval has been obtained in accordance with the terms of section
10-12-37 of this chapter. Any license issued prior to site plan approval shall
be null and void. (Ord. 02-5-28-12, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-12-2002; amd. Ord. 04-6,
7-13-2004, eff. 8-13-2004)
10-12-20: RECREATION VEHICLES AND MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED AS DWELLINGS:
It shall be unlawful to place any recreation vehicle or mobile home on any lot
or parcel of land and to use the same for human habitation, except as provided
for in section
10-10A-3 of this title. (Ord. 01-11-13-16, 11-13-2001, eff. 12-14-2001)
10-12-21: CONNECTION TO UTILITY SERVICES REQUIRED:
   A.   Culinary Water System 1 : All dwellings and other buildings used for
human occupancy shall be served by the city water system or by an existing
private central water system which is approved by the appropriate state
approval authority and which is capable of providing and delivering adequate
supplies for both culinary and firefighting purposes.
   B.   Fire Hydrants: Each dwelling or other structure used for human
occupancy shall be located not more than two hundred fifty feet (250') from the
closest fire hydrant. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
   C.   Domestic Sewage Disposal 2 :
      1.   All dwellings and other buildings intended for human occupancy shall
be served by the city central sewage collection and disposal system.
      2.   Existing dwellings and other buildings of human use and occupancy
currently serviced through a septic system must connect to the city sanitary
sewer system at the point in time in which the availability of said system
extends to within three hundred feet (300') of the property, pursuant to the
Utah Code Annotated section 10-8-38, and subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Should a property owner connect to the city sanitary sewer system
within one year of the date of said availability, the following shall apply:
            (1) The sewer hookup fee shall be waived.
            (2) The full sewer impact fee shall be paid by the property owner,
except that said fee may be financed over thirty six (36) months without
interest.
         b.   Should a property owner not connect to the city sanitary sewer
system within one year of the date of said availability, the following shall
apply:
            (1) The full sewer hookup fee shall be paid in full by the property
owner.
            (2) The full sewer impact fee shall be paid in full by the property
owner.
            (3) Neither the hookup fee nor the full sewer impact fee may be
financed by the city.
            (4) Following the expiration of one year from the date of said
availability, if the property owner has not connected to the city sanitary
sewer system, the property owner shall be responsible for payment of a monthly
fee equal to the amount of the monthly sewer fee until a connection is
established, at which time the property owner shall assume normal billings for
sewer services from the city.
            (5) Any fees or charges, as outlined above, which are not kept
current, shall fall under the city's normal procedure for such situations.
(Ord. 01-12-11-19, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 1 of this code and subsection
  10-12-24A of this chapter.
  2. See also section
2 8-3-2 of the city code and subsection
  10-12-24B of this chapter for distance requirement.
10-12-22: RESIDENCES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY:
   A.   Applicability: This section shall govern any facility, residence, or
other circumstance that constitutes a "residential facility for persons with a
disability" as defined in this title. The requirements of this section shall
govern and control any contrary provisions of this title or the city code.
Except as provided herein, the requirements of this section shall not be
construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this title, the
city code or other laws.
   B.   Legislative Intent: The intent of this section is:
      1.   To comply with Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-520, as amended; and
      2.   To allow persons with disabilities the same rights and privileges to
live in the city's residential areas as those persons who are not disabled by
implementing the policies and goals provided in the Utah fair housing act and
the federal fair housing amendments act of 1988, 42 USC section 3601 et seq.,
as interpreted by the courts having jurisdiction over the city of Elk Ridge.
   C.   Permitted Use:
      1.   Permitted Use: Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this title,
a residential facility for persons with a disability shall be a permitted use
in any zone in the city where similar residential dwellings that are not
residential facilities for persons with a disability are allowed as a permitted
or conditional use, subject to the same land use regulations applied to single-
family residential dwellings in the zone in which the facility is proposed to
be located, except as may be specifically modified in this section.
      2.   Termination: A use permitted by this section is nontransferable and
shall terminate if:
         a.   The facility is devoted to a use other than a residential
facility for persons with a disability; or
         b.   Any license or certification issued by the Utah department of
health or the department of human services for such a facility terminates or is
revoked; or
         c.   The facility fails to comply with the requirements set forth in
this section.
   D.   Development Standards: The development standards set forth in this
section shall apply to any residential facility for persons with a disability.
      1.   Building, Safety And Health Regulations:
         a.   The facility shall comply with all building, safety and health
regulations applicable to similar uses in the same zone that are not
residential facilities for persons with a disability.
         b.   The landscaping and structures located on site of the residential
facility shall maintain the residential character of other similar single-
family residences located within the same zone. Facilities utilizing existing
residential structures shall not make alterations to the landscaping or
structure that would change the structure's residential character. Landscaping
shall be established and well maintained in a manner consistent with the
standard of maintenance for yards and landscaping of other homes in the
immediate neighborhood.
         c.   In order to properly provide for staff and visitor parking, the
facility shall include a minimum of one on site parking stall for each resident
of the facility including staff, or comply with the parking standards of the
zone in which the facility is proposed to reside if the minimum number of
parking stalls required in the zone is greater. A pick up and delivery area may
be provided if appropriate but shall be designed to maintain the residential
character of the property. A parking plan and improvement schedule shall be
submitted including:
            (1) A parking stall count; and
            (2) Landscaping to screen parking and drive areas that are larger
than or out of character with the typical residential parking facilities
residing in the same zone; and
            (3) A schedule for completion of the additional parking and
landscaping.
         d.   Residential facilities for persons with disabilities that are
substance abuse facilities and are located within five hundred feet (500') of a
school shall provide, in accordance with rules established by the department of
human services under title 62a, chapter 2, licensure of program and facilities:
            (1) A security plan satisfactory to local law enforcement
authorities; and
            (2) Twenty four (24) hour supervision for residents; and
            (3) Other twenty four (24) hour security measures as may be
recommended by the local law enforcement authorities.
      2.   No Dangerous Persons Permitted: No facility shall be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would:
         a.   Constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals; or
         b.   Result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
      3.   License And Certification: Prior to occupancy of any facility, the
person or entity operating the facility shall:
         a.   Apply for and hold a current city business license; and
         b.   Provide the city with a copy of any license or certification
required by the Utah state department of health or the Utah state department of
human services; and
         c.   Evidence that the applicable state agency has approved the
specific structure proposed for occupancy and that it meets the agency's
criteria for size, number, and amenities related to bedrooms, bathrooms, and
other living areas to adequately provide accommodations for the proposed number
of residents and staff members; and
         d.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted that no person will
reside or remain in the facility whose prior or current behavior, actions and/
or criminal incidents or convictions, have demonstrated that such person is or
may be a substantial risk or direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals, or whose said behavior, actions and/or incidents or convictions
have resulted in or may result in substantial physical damage to the property
of others. Such affidavit shall be updated at the time of the application for
renewal of the business license. (Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
      4.   Separation Required: In order to preserve the residential character
of the neighborhoods of Elk Ridge, and the residential nature of the
residential facilities for persons with a disability, and to see that such
facilities are reasonably dispersed throughout the city, no residential
facility for persons with a disability shall be located within three thousand
nine hundred sixty feet (3,960') (3/4 mile) from an existing residential
facility for persons with a disability. The distance shall be measured from the
property line of the existing facility to the property line of the proposed
facility. (Ord. 13-3, 4-9-2013)
      5.   Number Of Occupants: Occupancy of a residential facility for persons
with a disability shall be limited to no more than four (4) unrelated persons.
For purposes of determining the number of occupants of a facility, persons
engaged to provide services to the residents of the facility shall be counted
if they reside at the residence.
      6.   Facility To Serve Only As A Residence For Persons With A Disability:
No professional counseling, therapy or other treatment shall be provided in the
facility for any person other than a resident or invited guest of the resident.
(Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
   E.   Reasonable Accommodation: None of the requirements of this section
shall be interpreted to limit any reasonable accommodation necessary to allow
the establishment or occupancy of a residential facility for persons with a
disability. A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any
individual with a disability, his or her representative, or a developer or
provider of housing for individuals with disabilities, when the application of
a land use, zoning or building regulation, policy, practice or procedure acts
as a barrier to fair housing opportunities. Refer to section
10-12-42, "Reasonable Accommodation", of this chapter for the processes and
procedures required to request and review a request for reasonable
accommodation. (Ord. 13-4, 4-9-2013)
10-12-23: SIGNS AND ADVERTISING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to provide standards and
requirements relating to the location and design of signs and similar
advertising structures.
   B.   Permitted Signs In All Zones: The following accessory signs shall be
permitted in all zones, subject to the terms and conditions as may be stated;
and provided, that no sign shall be positioned in such a manner as to result in
the creation of an unsafe visual clearance at any driveway location or
intersection:
      1.   Signs Not Requiring Permit: The following signs shall be permitted
without the necessity of obtaining a permit from the city: (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-
1997)
         a.   Real estate sales; one sign per street frontage advertising the
sale, lease or rental of the premises; provided, that such signs shall not
exceed six (6) square feet in residential zones and eight (8) square feet in
other zones. All such signs shall be removed within six (6) months from the
date of installation. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
         b.   Political signs; signs for the purpose of announcing the
candidacy of any person seeking public office; provided, that such signs shall
be removed not more than seven (7) days following the election.
         c.   Identification nameplates; accessory nameplates for professional
persons or home occupations. Said signs shall be not more than two (2) square
feet in area, be unlighted, and contain no advertising material.
         d.   Institutional identification signs; one sign or bulletin board
per street front denoting the name of any public, charitable or religious
institution when located on the premises of the main structure, and provided
such sign shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet in area.
         e.   Governmental signs; signs erected by a governmental unit for
regulatory or informational purposes such as traffic signs, street signs and
public notices.
         f.   Public signs; signs of a nonadvertising nature intended to
identify a condition or provide information to the public, such as public
utility information signs, safety and danger signs, trespass signs, entrance
and exit markers, provided, no sign shall exceed four (4) square feet in area.
      2.   Signs Requiring Permit: The following signs shall be permitted upon
acquisition of a permit therefor:
         a.   Building and development project identification signs; one sign
for each parcel upon which a building or development project is being
constructed announcing the character of the activity or the purpose for which
the building is intended, including the names of the contractor, engineers,
architects, financial providers, etc., and provided the area of the sign shall
not exceed thirty two (32) square feet. All such signs shall be removed prior
to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         b.   Directional and public service signs; signs which identify or
provide direction to scenic or historic sites, sports facilities or signs which
serve as community entrance signs or which convey community service
information; provided, that the area of the sign shall not exceed sixteen (16)
square feet. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-12-24: MINIMUM LEVEL OF IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLED BEFORE ISSUANCE OF BUILDING
PERMIT:
No building permit for the construction of a dwelling or other structure
intended for human occupancy shall be issued unless and until the lot upon
which said structure is proposed to be constructed is served by the following
minimum level of improvements:
   A.   Culinary Water Main 1 :
      1.   A culinary water main which connects to an existing city water main
having sufficient capacity to serve both culinary and fire flow requirements,
and which extends from the point of connection to the existing main to and
across the full width of the adjacent lot (except in the area serviced by the
Goosenest Water Company located west of 1600 West, where there is presently no
extension, but where a future extension as a result of contiguous development
may be anticipated). Also a permanent water service lateral, extending from the
main to the property line and including the service tap, lateral pipe,
constructed in accordance with city standards.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of the permit, said water main shall have
been:
         a.   Tested and sanitized;
         b.   Inspected and approved by the city engineer;
         c.   Charged; and
         d.   Capable of delivery of the water for both culinary and fire flow
purposes to the premises.
   B.   Sanitary Sewage 2 : A sanitary sewage collection main which connects to
an existing adequate city sewer main at the most appropriate location, as
determined by the city. Said sewer main extension shall run from the point of
connection to the existing main, to and across the full width of the adjacent
lot (except in the area serviced by the Goosenest Water Company located west of
1600 West, and the Loafer Canyon recreation area south of the private gate on
Loafer Canyon Road, where there are presently no extensions, but where future
extensions as a result of contiguous development may be anticipated). Also, the
premises shall connect to the main through a permanent sewage service lateral
extending from the main line to the property line.
   C.   Street Improvements:
      1.   A hard surfaced city street having a right of way width which
conforms to the minimum city standards. The hard surfaced street shall extend
from the point of connection to an existing hard surfaced street to and across
the full width of the lot seeking approval. The city may allow a building
permit to be issued on a lot in a subdivision without asphalt surfacing, if the
applicant agrees in writing that a certificate of occupancy for the structure
will not be issued until asphalt surfacing is complete. All other requirements
of this section shall be met prior to the issuance of a building permit. If
building permits are issued before asphalt surfacing is in place, it is the
applicant's responsibility to:
         a.   Clear and maintain the roads to allow fire and emergency vehicle
access to the building site.
         b.   Strip the road base after winter months.
         c.   Replace and recompact the road base prior to installation of
asphalt to meet city requirements.
      2.   For purposes of compliance with this requirement, the term "hard
surfacing" shall mean and include the installation of road subbase, gravel base
and asphalt surfacing, all in accordance with city standards.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection C shall not be applicable to
approved projects which shall have been approved in accordance with the
applicable provisions of this title for which vehicular access to individual
units is from private streets.
   D.   Drainage: All required drainage requirements shall be met. (Ord. 07-17,
11-13-2007, eff. 12-13-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 1 of this code and subsection
  10-12-21A of this chapter.
  2. See also section
2 8-3-2 of this code and subsection
  10-12-21C of this chapter for distance requirements.
10-12-25: FLAG LOT DEVELOPMENT:
(Rep. by Ord. 08-9, 7-8-2008)
10-12-26: STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following shall be
used as definitions:
 
                    A commercial vehicle is defined as truck tractors, motor
                    trucks, semi-trailers, or combinations of them, where the
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating is twenty-six
                    thousand (26,000) pounds or more, with or without business
                    markings.
EQUIPMENT:          Any machinery that by design or purpose is that other than
                    a motorized vehicle.
 
   B.   Prohibited and limited uses:
      1.   Unattended parking of commercial vehicles or equipment are not
permitted on the street or within any public right of way.
      2.   Equipment requiring the use of commercial vehicles for transport,
generally over fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds, are not permitted for parking
or storage within residential zones.
      3.   Parking of Commercial vehicles in residential only zones shall be
limited to (1) per lot, providing there is adequate property to do so safely.
   C.   Commercial vehicles and equipment, not prohibited or limited by section
10-12-26 B of this code, may be parked on residential property providing the
following:
      1.   Must be maintained in operating condition, be current on
registration and insurance, as required by law.
      2.   The parking of vehicles or equipment shall not hinder visibility for
vehicle or pedestrian traffic. Clear view areas for corners, streets and
sidewalks must be maintained.
      3.   Be placed on a prepared surface (gravel, concrete, etc.) as to
prevent any track-out (mud or debris) onto any city or neighboring property.
      4.   All applicable nuisance laws shall be maintained.
   D.   The provisions of the section shall not allow for the accumulation of
junk and unsightly items.
   E.   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
owner/occupant of a lot containing a dwelling from parking his/her recreation
vehicle on the lot, providing the sections on safe parking, placement and
visibility are maintained. (Ord. 99-7-13-5, 7-13-1999; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-9-
2021; Ord. 21-08, 9-14-2021)
10-12-27: SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO DWELLINGS:
   A.   Building, HUD Code Compliance: The dwelling shall meet the requirements
of the current edition of the building code as adopted by the city or, in the
instance of a manufactured housing unit, the current version of the HUD code.
   B.   Prior Occupancy: In the event that the dwelling has had prior
occupancy, the dwelling shall meet the requirements of the existing applicable
code.
   C.   Utility Connection: The dwelling shall be approved for permanent
connection to all required utilities.
   D.   Foundation:
      1.   Each dwelling shall have a code approved site built foundation
capable of transferring design dead loads and live loads and any other design
loads unique to local homes (i.e., wind, seismic or water conditions, etc.),
that are imposed by or upon the structure into the underlying soil or bedrock
without failure, and shall be adequately tied to the foundation.
      2.   All foundations and all tie down devices shall be in accordance with
the city adopted building codes, the manufacturer's recommendations, or an
approved engineered design.
   E.   Perimeter Foundation, Skirting: The space beneath the structure shall
be enclosed at the perimeter with a foundation which meets the requirements of
the building code or, in the instance of a manufactured housing unit, a
concrete or masonry skirting wall. The perimeter foundation or skirting wall
shall be continuous, except for the placement of doors, windows or access
openings and shall be placed upon footings which are not less than thirty
inches (30") below grade, as measured to the bottom of the footing, for frost
protection.
   F.   Transportation Devices: In the instance of a factory built dwelling or
moved structure, any tongues, axles, wheels or other devices required for the
transportation of a dwelling and not required to retain the structural
integrity of the building shall be removed at the time of installation.
   G.   Roof Surface: The roof surface shall consist of fire retardant roofing
materials conforming to the applicable standards of the building code and
urban/wildland interface ordinance (see title 9, chapter 3 of this code).
   H.   Roof Pitch: Where the design provides for a pitched roof, the pitch
shall be not less than 2.5:12. There shall be a roof overhang at the eaves and
gable ends of not less than six inches (6"), excluding the rain gutters, as
measured from the outer surface of the adjacent vertical wall. The roof
overhang requirement shall not apply to areas above porches, alcoves and
similar appendages, which together do not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the
length of the structure.
   I.   Exterior Siding Material: Dwellings shall have exterior siding material
consisting of wood, hardboard, brick, concrete, stucco, glass, metal or vinyl
lap, tile or stone.
   J.   Garage: Each dwelling shall be provided with a two (2) car garage.
   K.   Exit Landing: At each exit door there must be a landing that is a
minimum of thirty six inches by thirty six inches (36" x 36") and constructed
to meet the requirements of the building code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd.
2003 Code)
   L.   Deviations: The planning commission may approve deviations from one or
more of the developmental or architectural standards set forth above, upon
receipt of an application from the owner and a finding that: 1) the proposed
deviation provides compensating features meeting the intent of the standard
appealed from; and 2) the appearance of the proposed dwelling, including any
proposed deviation, will be compatible and harmonious with existing structures
in the vicinity. A determination made by the planning commission may be
appealed to the appeal authority. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. 2003 Code;
Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
10-12-28: LOW POWER RADIO SERVICE ANTENNA FACILITIES (CELLULAR PHONE
TRANSMISSION TOWERS AND FACILITIES):
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to establish an approval
procedure and placement standards and criteria to more adequately address the
various planning issues relating to the placement of low power radio service
antenna facilities within the city, including issues of demand, visual
mitigation, noise, engineering, residential impacts, health, safety and
facility sites, while ensuring that such procedure, standards and/or criteria
do not unreasonably discriminate among competing wireless telecommunications
service providers. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
   B.   Procedure For Approval: Same as required for approval of a large scale
development (see subsection
10-11F-4 of this title). (Ord. 11-02, 4-12-2011, eff. 6-8-2011)
   C.   Standards And Criteria; Definitions: For purpose of facilitating
regulation, low power radio service antenna facilities are divided into three
(3) categories. The characteristics of each category and the specific standards
and criteria applicable to each shall be as hereinafter set forth: (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997)
      1.   Monopole Antenna: A "monopole antenna" is defined as a single
cylindrical steel or wooden pole attached directly to the ground that acts as
the support structure for the antenna and antennas.
         a.   Location: Monopole antennas shall be permitted in any zone or
development project in which minor utility transmission projects are listed as
a permitted or conditional use. The pole may be placed on a separate site owned
by the user and dedicated exclusively as an antenna or may be "collocated" on a
site occupied by a primary or "host" structure and occupied on a lease basis.
The placement site shall have adequate access, and in the instance of a lease
site shall not have the effect of reducing the requirements applicable to the
host structure or use in violation of the development code or an approved
development plan.
         b.   Height: The maximum height of any monopole structure shall be
sixty feet (60') as measured from the prevailing ground surface in the vicinity
of the pole. Each monopole structure shall be freestanding and shall not
require the use of guy wires for support.
         c.   Antenna: The size, type and placement of the actual antenna
structure attached to the monopole shall be in accordance with the standards
for antenna type as set forth on figures 1 and 2 of this section. Not more than
one antenna structure shall be placed on each monopole, except that the
monopole may contain one whip type antenna in addition to any of the antenna
structures identified under figures 1 and 2 of this section.
         d.   Spacing: No monopole structure shall be located closer than one-
half (1/2) mile from any other monopole structure.
         e.   Distance From Residences: No monopole structure shall be located
closer than three hundred feet (300') from any residence when the pole is
located in a residential zone, or three hundred feet (300') from any
residential zone boundary when proposed for placement in a professional office,
commercial or industrial zone.
         f.   Placement On Undeveloped Parcels Not Permitted: Monopoles
proposed to be located within a residential zone shall be placed only upon
property currently developed, e.g., park, golf course, and school campus
property. No such facility shall be permitted on lands which are currently
vacant, used for agriculture, or otherwise considered probable for development
for residential purposes.
         g.   Lighting: No portion of the antenna or structure shall be
lighted; and no such structure shall be permitted in a location which requires
the use of flashing or other warning lights.
         h.   Color: The color of the monopole and antenna structure shall be
white, or such other color as will blend with the surrounding environment, as
approved by the approval authority.
         i.   On Site Placement: Collocated monopole structures shall be placed
in the interior yard area of the host lot. Such structures shall not be placed
in required landscape areas or required parking spaces.
         j.   Accessory Facilities: Appurtenant buildings or facilities shall
comply with the setback requirements of the zone or development plan. Monopoles
shall be protected from unauthorized access through the use of an enclosure
fence having a height of six feet (6'), and by ensuring that the climbing pegs
are removed from the lower twenty feet (20') of the pole. All electric power
lines leading to any freestanding accessory building or structure shall be
underground.
         k.   Exception To Height And Lighting Restrictions: The height and
light restrictions of subsections C1b and C1g of this section may be waived by
the approval authority where the low power radio service antenna facility is to
be mounted on an existing pole that lawfully exists under current law and was
placed for a purpose other than that of providing telecommunications service
(e.g., park lighting at a ballpark), where: 1) no lighting is placed thereon
that further illuminates, advertises or draws attention to the pole, the low
power radio service antenna facility, or the provider of any telecommunications
service; and 2) the mounting of such facility complies in all respects with all
other provisions of this section.
      2.   Wall Mounted Antenna: A "wall mounted antenna" is defined as an
antenna or series of individual antennas mounted against the vertical wall of a
building.
         a.   Location: Wall mounted antennas shall be permitted in any zone or
development project in which minor utility transmission projects are listed as
a permitted or conditional use.
         b.   Placement: The size, type and placement of antenna structure
shall be in accordance with the standards for antenna type as set forth on
figure 3 following this section. No portion of the antenna shall project above
the wall to which it is attached.
         c.   Color, Architectural Compatibility: Antennas, equipment and
supporting structure shall be painted or otherwise colored to match the
building facade, structure or background against which they are most commonly
seen, and shall be architecturally compatible with the building to which they
are attached.
         d.   Accessory Facilities: All facilities and equipment for the
operation of the antenna shall be located within the structure to which the
antenna is attached.
      3.   Roof Mounted Antenna: A "roof mounted antenna" is defined as an
antenna or series of individual antenna mounted on a flat roof, mechanical room
or penthouse of a building.
         a.   Location: Roof mounted antennas shall be permitted in any zone or
development project in which minor utility transmission projects are listed as
a permitted or conditional use.
         b.   Placement: The size, type and placement of antenna structure
shall be in accordance with the standards for antenna type as set forth on
figure 4 following this section and shall be located within the placement
envelop as defined therein.
         c.   Roof Placement: Roof mounted antennas shall be permitted only on
a flat roof, and shall be screened, constructed and/or colored to match the
structure to which they are attached.
   D.   Review Criteria; Additional Requirements May Be Attached: In conducting
its review and/or making its determination, the approval authority and/or
reviewing body shall, in addition to any other matters it may choose to
consider, consider the following:
      1.   Compatibility: Compatibility of the proposed structure with the
height and mass of existing buildings in the area.
      2.   Placement: Whether placement of the structure in the proposed
location will result in a significant impact to other uses or the reception or
transmission of existing facilities.
      3.   Location: The location of the antenna in relation to existing
vegetation, topography and buildings to obtain the best visual screening.
      4.   Impacts: Visual and economic impacts upon the adjacent properties.
      5.   Compliance: Compliance with federal communications commission (FCC)
emission standards.
The approval authority may deny placement of a low power radio service antenna
facility which does not conform to the required standards and criteria, or
which is inconsistent with the review criteria of this subsection; or it may
require changes or additional measures in order to more fully protect the
interests of adjacent properties and the public and to accomplish the purposes
of this section.
   E.   Denial:
      1.   Requirements: The approval authority may not deny a request for
approval of a proposed low power radio service antenna facility unless it
satisfies the requirements of this subsection:
         a.   Evidence, facts, arguments, comments, advice and/or
recommendations, not otherwise protected from disclosure by law or legally
recognized privilege, which are relied upon by the approval authority in
denying the request, must be reduced to written form.
         b.   The approval authority shall prepare and issue its findings,
conclusions, final decision or determination, and supporting reasons therefor,
in writing.
      2.   Written Submissions: The approval authority, or any recommending
governmental body or officer, may require the applicant, city staff members
and/or interested members of the public to prepare their comments and arguments
in the form of written submissions to the approval authority.
      3.   Minutes: Written minutes of any public meeting of the city wherein a
request made under this section results in a denial shall be kept in accordance
with the Utah open meetings act.
      4.   Written Record: The official minutes of the public meeting, along
with the written submissions and documentation referenced above in this
subsection, shall constitute the approval authority's written record as
required by provisions of the telecommunications act of 1996; shall be made
available upon request to the applicant and the public pursuant to the Utah
government records access and management act; and shall constitute the official
written record for the purpose of any legal, equitable or administrative review
of said denial.
   F.   Continuing Obligation; Business License Required:
      1.   Maintenance: Every antenna, pole or support structure, and all
ancillary facilities, comprising a low power radio service antenna facility,
shall at all times be maintained in good structural and aesthetic condition.
The owner of any property on which any such antenna, pole, support structure or
ancillary facility or facilities, is located, and those responsible for or
receiving benefit from its placement, shall keep the area clean and free from
noxious or offensive substances, rubbish and/or flammable waste material.
      2.   Compliance: In addition to complying with any and all standards and
criteria, review criteria, conditions and requirements of the city under this
section, a low power radio service antenna facility is expected to and shall
fully comply with all other applicable ordinances of this city, and with all
applicable state and federal laws and regulations, including, but not limited
to, the regulations of the FCC (including emissions standards of any radio
frequency emissions emitted, discharged or otherwise radiating from such
facility); the federal aviation administration (FAA), and the environmental
protection agency (EPA).
      3.   Use Separate: Each separate low power radio service antenna facility
shall be considered as a separate use; and an annual business license shall be
required for each such facility.
      4.   Failure; Abandonment:
         a.   Failure to properly maintain the low power radio service antenna
facility, or the premises upon which it is located, as set forth in subsections
F1 and F2 of this section; or
         b.   Failure to secure and maintain the required business license for
a continuous period of one year, shall be considered an abandonment of said low
power radio service antenna facility.
      5.   Revocation Of License: Failure to comply with any of the
requirements of this section, any applicable ordinance of the city, or any
state or federal law or regulation, may constitute grounds to revoke the
business license of and pertaining to the low power radio service antenna
facility. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1524.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1526.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1528.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1530.gif]
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997
10-12-29: ACCESSORY APARTMENTS:
   A.   Intent: The following regulations have been established to:
      1.   Provide minimum standards for the establishment and operation of
accessory apartments within the city. (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-1999)
      2.   To facilitate the implementation of the affordable housing element
of the general plan by adopting provisions allowing the construction and
operation of accessory apartments within single-family dwellings or permanent
accessory buildings as defined in
10-12-5(A).
   B.   Application And Approval Required:
      1.   Accessory apartments situated within single-family dwellings or
permanent accessory buildings may be approved by city administration, following
receipt of an application and subject to a finding that the primary dwelling or
permanent accessory building and proposed accessory apartment conforms to the
conditions and standards hereinafter set forth.
      2.   Any person constructing or causing the construction of any building
as defined in
10-12-5(A) containing an accessory apartment, or any person remodeling or
causing the remodeling of a single-family dwelling or building intended to
include an accessory apartment shall first obtain an accessory apartment
permit. Before the permit is issued the applicant shall: (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-
1999; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
         a.   Submit the following materials relating to the proposed accessory
apartment:
            (1)   An application for approval of an accessory apartment.
            (2)   A site plan, drawn accurately to scale, that shows property
lines and dimensions, the location of all existing buildings, the location of
existing and proposed entrances, and the location of existing and proposed off
street parking stalls.
            (3)   A detailed floor plan of the dwelling, drawn to scale, and
showing the use of each room and the location of the rooms included in the
accessory apartment.
            (4)   All plans and other submittal shall conform with the
standards set forth in this section. (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-1999)
         b.   (Rep. by Ord. 15-1, 1-10-2015)
         c.   Make payment of such fees as are required for the processing of
the application.
   C.   Standards And Design Criteria: Any proposal for the establishment of an
accessory apartment shall comply with the following standards and criteria:
      1.   Accessory apartments are specifically listed as a permitted or
conditional use within the zone.
      2.   Accessory apartments shall be permitted only in the instance where
the primary dwelling is owner occupied. (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-1999)
      3.   A single-family dwelling may include not more than one (1) accessory
apartment located within the dwelling or not more than one (1) accessory
apartment located in an accessory building associated with the dwelling. More
than one accessory apartment of any kind associated with a single-family
dwelling is prohibited.
      4.   An accessory apartment located within a single-family dwelling shall
include not less than two (2) off street parking spaces in addition to all
spaces required for the principal dwelling unit, and an accessory apartment
located in an accessory building shall not include less than two (2) off street
parking spaces in addition to all spaces required for the principal dwelling
unit. All parking spaces that are reduced or removed due to the creation of the
accessory apartment must be replaced with other off-street parking. No portion
of the required off street parking for an accessory apartment shall be situated
within the front setback area located directly in front of the principal
building or the clear view area of an intersecting street as defined in section
10-12-9 of this chapter with the exception of a driveway, which may be used for
off-street parking even if located within the front setback. All off street
parking areas shall be paved with concrete, asphalt, masonry or concrete
pavers.
      5.   Accessory apartments associated with single-family dwellings shall
be served by the same utility connections as the principal building. (Ord. 99-
6-22-4, 6-22-1999; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
      6.   An accessory apartment shall contain not less than three hundred
(300) square feet. The primary dwelling shall conform to the building area
requirements of the zone, not including the portion devoted to the accessory
apartment.
      7.   All construction and remodeling to accommodate the accessory
apartment shall conform to the building code in effect at the time of
construction or remodeling. (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-1999)
      8.   The exterior entrance for an accessory apartment shall be separate
from the primary single-family dwelling entrance.
      9.   The exterior entrance for an accessory apartment approved as part of
a new single-family dwelling or and accessory building shall not be located at
the front of the dwelling adjacent to a street.
      10.   Where the proposed accessory apartment is to be located in an
existing single-family dwelling, the entrance shall: a) conform to the
requirements applicable to a new dwelling; or b) where the separate entrance is
an existing entrance facing the street, the style of the entrance door shall be
the same as the entrance door for the primary dwelling. The purpose of this
requirement is to preserve the single-family residential look of the structure.
      11.   The primary dwelling shall either: a) be served by the city
sanitary sewer system; or b) if served by septic tank disposal system, provide
written evidence from the county health department, or its successor agency,
that the septic tank and drainfield system is adequate to accommodate the
additional demand from the accessory apartment. (Ord. 15-1, 1-10-2015)
      12.   Accessory apartments located in an accessory building must contain
at least one (1) bathroom, one (1) kitchen area with facilities to properly
prepare food, and a separate area for sleeping.
   D.   Duration Of Permit; Continuing Obligation: An accessory apartment
permit shall be valid for the year in which it is first issued and until July 1
of the year following its issuance. Thereafter, the accessory apartment permit
shall be automatically renewed for the next succeeding year upon receipt of all
of the following:
      1.   payment of an annual accessory apartment permit fee; and
      2.   evidence that the primary dwelling is occupied by the owner; and
      3.   a determination by the city that all conditions of approval remain
in effect. (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-1999)
   E.   Preexisting Accessory Apartments: Where an existing single-family
dwelling contains an accessory apartment, the city will issue a permit for
continued operation of the accessory apartment existing at the time of the
adoption hereof if all the following conditions are met: (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-
1999; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
      1.   Accessory apartments are permitted within the zone in which the
dwelling is located; and
      2.   The primary dwelling and the portion intended for use as an
accessory apartment shall have been inspected by the building inspector and
certified as being safe for occupancy; and
      3.   The owner of the primary dwelling shall have submitted an
application to continue operation of the accessory apartment within ninety (90)
days of the adoption of this section; and (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-1999)
      4.   The city shall have received payment of processing fees required as
a condition of approval of an accessory apartment. (Ord. 15-1, 1-10-2015)
   F.   Penalty: Failure to secure approval of an accessory apartment as
provided in this section or to operate an accessory apartment in accordance
with the terms of this section shall be considered a violation of this
development code and punishable as provided herein. (Ord. 99-6-22-4, 6-22-1999;
amd. Ord. 21-11, 12-17-2021)
10-12-30: ZONE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; EXCEPTION:
The planning commission may approve, following a public hearing, a subdivision
with a lot that has a width, side setbacks and/or area less than that required
by this title, provided the following conditions are met:
   A.   The proposed lot width, side setbacks and/or area in the R-1-20,000 and
R-1-15,000 zones shall be at least eighty percent (80%) of the minimum lot
width, side setbacks and/or area required by these zones or at least the same
width, side setbacks and/or area as eighty percent (80%) of the lots within
four hundred feet (400') of the property fronting on the same street.
   B.   The proposed subdivision shall contain no more than two (2) lots.
   C.   The proposed subdivision shall meet all other subdivision and zoning
ordinance requirements, including front and rear setbacks.
   D.   Any person requesting a subdivision under this exception shall submit a
plan showing compliance with the setback, driveway slope and buildable area
requirements for the lot that has a width or area less than that required by
this title. (Ord. 06-16, 11-14-2006)
10-12-31: ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES:
   A.   "Assisted living facility" means:
      1.   A type I assisted living facility, which is a residential facility
that provides assistance with activities of daily living and social care to two
(2) or more residents who:
         a.   Require protected living arrangements; and
         b.   Are capable of achieving mobility sufficient to exit the facility
without the assistance of another person; and
      2.   A type II assisted living facility, which is a residential facility
with a homelike setting that provides an array of coordinated supportive
personal and health care services available twenty four (24) hours per day to
residents who have been assessed under department rule to need any of these
services.
   B.   Each resident in a type I or type II assisted living facility shall
have a service plan based on the assessment, which may include:
      1.   Specified services of intermittent nursing care;
      2.   Administration of medication; and
      3.   Supportive services promoting residents' independence and self-
sufficiency. (Ord. 11-03, 4-12-2011, eff. 6-9-2011)
   C.   Assisted living facilities are a conditional use in the C-1 retail
commercial zone based on the following conditions and standards:
      1.   The facility conforms to all applicable standards and requirements
of the Utah state department of human services.
      2.   No person being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse shall be placed
in an assisted living facility.
      3.   Placement in an assisted living facility shall be on a strictly
voluntary basis and not part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation or
treatment in a correctional facility.
      4.   The facility conforms to all building, safety, health and zoning
requirements of this code applicable to structures in the zone in which it is
located.
      5.   The facility shall be of a size, scale and design such that it is in
harmony with other residential uses in the vicinity.
      6.   All required yard areas and all other nonpaved or nonbuilt areas
shall be landscaped.
      7.   The facility may be required to have a rear and side yard sight
obscuring fence when adjacent to incompatible commercial uses. A six foot (6')
masonry fence shall be required when located adjacent to a residential zone or
use.
      8.   The facility shall be allowed one wall or monument sign, which shall
not exceed twelve (12) square feet and which shall have no internal
illumination. All signage shall be approved by the planning commission at the
same time as the facility site plan.
      9.   The facility shall have no more than two (2) stories or thirty six
feet (36') above grade, as measured from the highest point of finished grade of
the ground adjacent to the foundation of the structure to the top of the
roofline.
      10.   There shall be at least three (3) parking spaces for the first two
(2) beds and one additional parking space for each additional three (3) beds.
All parking shall meet current Americans with disabilities act requirements.
(Ord. 16-4, 9-13-2016)
10-12-32: WATER RIGHTS CONVEYED TO CITY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Amount Of Water Right: As a condition of approval of a building permit
for a dwelling or other use which proposes to obtain water service from the
city water system, the applicant shall convey to the city title to water rights
in the amount shown in the water rights table in the "Elk Ridge City
Development And Construction Standards Manual". The exact amount required
varies with the size of the lot or if the intended use will require more than
the amount shown on the table. In the special case of large common areas in a
development or commercial developments, the city may require the conveyance of
additional water rights to accommodate the anticipated additional demand for
water. In no case shall less than one acre-foot for each dwelling be conveyed
to the city.
   B.   Prior Approved Lots: Where an application for building permit is
requested for construction on a lot for which water rights have been previously
conveyed, the amount of water rights previously conveyed shall be construed as
a credit toward satisfaction of the water rights conveyance requirement
required pursuant to this section.
   C.   Type Of Water Rights: The water rights proposed for conveyance to the
city shall: 1) be of a type which is capable of ready conversion for municipal
purposes from an existing city supply source (i.e., domestic well, natural flow
right); 2) have received approval by the state engineer of a change application
permitting the use of the water for municipal sources; and 3) the owner thereof
shall have executed a warranty deed and certificate of title search to the city
providing for the actual conveyance of the water right to the city at the time
of final plat approval.
   D.   Water Rights Conveyance Classified As Project Improvement: For purposes
of compliance with the terms of the Utah impact fee act, the conveyance of the
water right shall be construed as a project improvement.
   E.   Acceptance Of Cash In Lieu Of Water Rights: The city may at its
discretion, accept cash in lieu of water rights at any time, based on competent
engineering advice, and the city has deeded water rights in its name properly
permitted for municipal use, in excess of the quantity required to meet the
"peak day demand and average yearly demand" of the current connections plus
platted lots, as defined in the Utah administrative code R309-510-7. The amount
of cash in lieu shall be based on the water quantity per lot shown in the water
rights table in the "Elk Ridge City Development And Construction Standards
Manual", or as determined under special case calculations, multiplied by the
current fair market value of the water right. Fair market value shall be set by
the city council after periodic review and shall be based on comparable market
values of water rights of similar type and quality. (Ord. 06-8, 5-9-2006, eff.
5-29-2006)
10-12-33: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: Uses designated as conditional uses require special
consideration from the planning commission or administration as detailed
elsewhere in this code. These uses may or may not be appropriate for a specific
piece of property. The purpose of this section is to allow the planning
commission or administration to evaluate the appropriateness of designated
conditional uses on a case by case basis. The conditional use permit procedure
allows the planning commission or administration to approve, deny or
conditionally approve any request for a conditional use permit.
   B.   Permit Required: No person or entity shall operate or conduct a use
designated as a conditional use within the applicable zone without first
obtaining a conditional use permit from the city.
   C.   Procedure For Approval: The applicant for a conditional use permit
shall submit a completed application form and a site plan with sufficient
information to allow the planning commission or administration as detailed
elsewhere in this code to make a well informed decision. The applicant shall
also pay a fee in an amount established by resolution of the city council with
the application.
   D.   Notice: Notification shall be performed by the applicant in conformance
with the terms of section
10-12-37 of this chapter.
   E.    Planning Commission or Administrative Review: Planning Commission or
Administrative review shall be performed by the applicant in conformance with
the terms of section
10-12-37 of this chapter
   F.   Criteria And Factors To Be Considered: The following factors shall be
weighed and considered when determining whether a conditional use permit
application should be approved, approved with conditions or denied:
      1.   Harmony of the request with the general objectives of the general
plan, the zoning ordinance, the subdivision ordinance, any other city ordinance
and/or master plan and the particular zone in which the request is located.
      2.   Harmony of the request with existing uses in the neighborhood.
      3.   Development or lack of development adjacent to the site.
      4.   Whether or not the request may be injurious to potential development
in the vicinity.
      5.   Present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water,
sewer and other utilities.
      6.   Suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.
      7.   Number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public
need for the conditional use.
      8.   Economic impact on the neighborhood.
      9.   Aesthetic impact on the neighborhood.
      10.   Safeguards to prevent noxious or offensive omissions such as noise,
glare, dust, pollutants and odor.
      11.   Attempts by the applicant to minimize other adverse effects on
people and property in the area.
      12.   Impact of the proposed use on the health, safety and welfare of the
city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
   G.   Duration: Unless otherwise specified by the planning commission or
administration as detailed elsewhere in this code, and subject to the
provisions of this section relating to the amendment or revocation of a
conditional use permit, a conditional use permit shall run with the land and be
valid until such use expressed in the conditional use permit changes or is
abandoned for a period of six (6) months or more. The planning commission or
administration may grant a conditional use permit for a limited period of time
if it finds that a limited permit is reasonable to protect the health, safety,
or welfare of the community or to ensure compliance with the terms of permit
approval.
   H.   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by the city council
by resolution, and shall be assessed as a condition of the submission of any
conditional use permit application. Conditional use permit fees are
nonrefundable.
   I.    Other Requirements: An applicant or user of a conditional use permit
shall be held to all of the requirements relating to site plan approval,
improvements, bonding, maintenance and completion. The conditional use permit
shall not be valid until a bond guaranteeing all required and proposed
improvements has been posted. Bonding is not required for permitting of hobby
animals unless the conditional use permit also includes physical improvements
such as: the installation of new utility services, off site construction
encroachment, or construction typically requiring a building permit. Nothing in
this section shall be interpreted to waive the bonding, licensing or permit
requirements set forth in other city ordinances.
   J.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by or affected by any decision of the
planning commission or administration as detailed elsewhere in this code may
appeal the decision to the city council. Any person aggrieved by or affected by
any decision of the appeal by the city council may appeal the decision to the
appeal authority, subject to the provisions of the Utah state code, section 10-
9-704.
   K.   Implementation: A conditional use permit shall expire and become null
and void if the permit has not been implemented by the recipient within one
year of the date of approval. The permit shall be considered implemented if the
recipient either engages or participates in the conditional use or completes
substantial construction on the project for which the permit was granted.
   L.   Amendment Or Revocation: Any interested party may apply to the city for
the amendment or revocation of a conditional use permit. Any person or entity,
other than the city, seeking to amend or revoke a conditional use permit, shall
pay a fee in an amount established by resolution of the city council. For
purposes of this section, "any interested party" shall include the following
persons or entities:
      1.   The owner or lessee of the property for which the conditional use
was granted.
      2.   The city.
      3.   Any owner or lessee of property that lies within two hundred feet
(200') of the property for which the conditional use permit was granted.
      4.   Any person that can show that the conditional use has a direct
impact upon his or her health, safety or welfare.
   M.   Procedure For Amendment Or Revoking Of Permit: The procedure for
amending or revoking a conditional use permit shall be the same as the original
application procedure set forth in this section. A conditional use permit may
be amended at the request of the holder of the permit upon showing of good
cause. A conditional use permit may be amended or revoked at the request of any
other interested party if the planning commission or administration as detailed
elsewhere in this code finds one or more of the following:
      1.   The conditional use permit was obtained by misrepresentation or
fraud.
      2.   The use for which the permit was granted has ceased or has been
suspended for six (6) months.
      3.   The holder or user of the conditional use permit has failed to
comply with any of the conditions placed on the issuance of the permit.
      4.   The holder or user of permit has failed to comply with any city
regulation governing the conduct of the use.
      5.   The holder or user of the conditional use permit has failed to
construct or maintain the approved site as shown on the approved site plan.
      6.   The operation of the use or the character of the site has been found
to be a nuisance or a public nuisance by a court of competent jurisdiction in
any civil or criminal proceeding.
   N.   Revocation: No conditional use permit shall be amended or revoked
against the wishes of the applicant for the permit without first giving the
applicant an opportunity to appear before the city council and show cause as to
why the permit should not be amended or revoked. Amendment or revocation of the
permit shall not limit the city's ability to initiate or complete other legal
proceedings against the holder or user of the permit.
   O.   Violation: A violation of any terms of this section or any conditions
imposed as part of a conditional use permit shall be unlawful, and may be
remedied or punished as allowed by law.
(Ord. 01-6-26-12, 6-26-2001, eff. 6-26-2001; amd. Ord. 04-6, 7-13-2004, eff. 8-
13-2004; Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007; Ord. 14-6, 10-14-2014; Ord. 19-01, 1-8-2019)
10-12-34: DEVELOPMENT OF SLOPED LAND:
No property of thirty percent (30%) or more slope shall be incorporated as part
of the designated building area of any building lot. All development on land of
twenty percent (20%) or more slope shall be designed and stamped by a licensed
engineer prior to submitting plans to any city body or official for review.
(Ord. 01-12-11-21, 2-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
10-12-35: LOT ORIENTATION:
   A.   Corner Lots: For all existing, undeveloped corner lot properties not to
be subdivided, vehicular access and egress routes, upon development, shall be
oriented toward a street of minor collector class or lower. In addition, the
following shall apply:
      1.   In the instance that such a property abuts two (2) streets of minor
collector class or lower, the access and egress routes shall be oriented toward
the street of lowest classification.
      2.   In the instance that such a property abuts two (2) streets of major
collector class or higher, the access and egress routes shall be oriented
toward the street of lowest classification. In addition, one of the following
shall be installed as a part of the access or egress route:
         a.   Circular driveway.
         b.   Hammerhead driveway.
      3.   When access or egress onto the street of lesser classification is
thought to be inconsistent with the planned development for the property, the
applicant may petition the planning commission requesting access or egress onto
the street of higher classification. (Ord. 02-4-9-7, 4-9-2002, eff. 4-25-2002)
      4.   Upon a decision being rendered by the planning commission, the
applicant may petition the city council for review of the planning commission's
decision. Upon a decision being rendered by the city council, an applicant
feeling aggrieved by said decision may appeal to the appeal authority as
stipulated in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9-704. (Ord. 02-4-9-7, 4-9-2002,
eff. 4-25-2002; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
   B.   Interior Lots: For all existing, undeveloped interior lot properties
not to be subdivided where the property has frontage on a street of major
collector class or higher, vehicular access and egress routes, upon
development, shall be provided in one of the following manners in order to
allow for safe access onto a major collector class, or higher, street, without
doing so with a vehicle moving in reverse:
      1.   Circular driveway.
      2.   Hammerhead driveway. (Ord. 02-4-9-7, 4-9-2002, eff. 4-25-2002)
10-12-36: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS; RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety,
and general welfare of the public and to enhance the aesthetic features of the
city; to protect property values, trap and filter dust and pollutants, reduce
soil erosion, protect and conserve city water supplies; and to facilitate the
orderly development of an attractive and harmonious community.
   B.   Definitions: As applied to this chapter:
FRONT YARD: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, between the
front lot line and the front wall plane of the main building.
PLANTER STRIP: The area between the street and the sidewalk.
REAR YARD: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, between the rear
lot line and the rear wall plane of the main building.
SIDE YARD: A yard extending from the side lot line to the side wall plane of
the main building, and extending from the front wall plane to the rear wall
plane of the building.
SIDE YARD - CORNER LOT: A yard extending from the front lot line to the rear
lot line, between the side lot line and the side wall plane of the main
building.
STREET TREES: Trees located in a planter strip.
XERISCAPE: Reduced water usage landscape achieved using good planning and
design, limited turf areas, soil improvements, efficient irrigation, mulching,
low water use plants, and appropriate trees, shrubs, and ground cover. Failure
of an owner to install and maintain landscaping within the front yard under the
guise that the vegetation and bare ground that occur naturally on the site
constitutes xeriscaping shall not qualify as conforming to the provisions of
this section.
ZEROSCAPE: Dirt and weeds are not permitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1532.jpg]
   C.   Single-Family:
      1.   All single-family residential lots must have the front yard, side
yard - corner lot, or side yard center lot landscaped to the rear wall plane of
the dwelling. If there is a sight obscuring fence, on a center lot, landscaping
can end at the front of the fence. Planter strips must be landscaped. All
landscaping should be completed within three (3) years of receiving a
certificate of occupancy or the purchase of an existing home. The applicant
must be responsible for the landscaping.
      2.   Required landscaping may be comprised of an irrigation system,
trees, bushes, Xeriscape improvements, other manicured vegetative ground cover,
or a combination of them.
         a.   An irrigation system connected to the Elk Ridge City water system
must include the installation of a backflow prevention device (specifically an
RPZ valve), a pressure reducing valve (PRV), a rain or soil moisture sensor,
low loss heads and/or drip systems as applicable, and an automatic drain
system.
      3.   Water is a precious commodity that should be protected and
conserved. The following pertains to those parts of the lot as described in 10-
12-36-C-1.
         a.   Lawn shall not be less than 8 feet at its narrowest point.
         b.   Lawn shall not exceed 35% of the total landscaped area.
            (1)   Total Landscaped area: Improved areas of the property that
incorporate all the completed features of the landscape. The landscape area
does not include footprints of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways,
and other non-irrigated areas intentionally left undeveloped.
         c.   Lawns shall not be installed in park strips, paths, or on slopes
greater than 25%.
      4.   In order to ensure landscaping requirements are met, Elk Ridge City
must require applicants to provide a deposit with the construction of new
homes. The deposit amount is set and may be adjusted from time to time by the
city council. The deposit will be returned to the property owner when the
required landscaping has been installed. In the event that the required
landscaping is not installed within three (3) years after the certificate of
occupancy has been issued, the deposit is forfeited to the city.
   D.   Multiple-Family Dwellings:
      1.   A development with common areas must have a landscaping plan shown
as part of the preliminary application package.
      2.   A landscaping plan must be designed, drawn, and certified by a
licensed landscape architect and submitted to the Elk Ridge City planning
commission for their approval. The plan must show street trees, planting
materials, irrigation, water runoff controls and containment, structural
features, playgrounds, sport fields, building locations, and hard surfaces
(streets, driveways, sidewalks, trails, etc.). It must also show grading with
contours and spot elevations before construction and anticipated contours and
elevations after completion.
      a.   Lawn shall not be less than 8 feet at its narrowest point.
      b.   Lawn shall not exceed 35% of the total landscaped area.
         i.    Total Landscaped area: Improved areas of the property that
incorporate all the completed features of the landscape. The landscape area
does not include footprints of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways,
and other non-irrigated areas intentionally left undeveloped.
      c.   Lawns shall not be installed in park strips, paths, or on slopes
greater than 25%.
      d.   In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multifamily
development common area landscapes, lawn area shall not exceed 20% of the total
landscaped area, outside of active recreation areas.
      3.   A cash bond of one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated
landscaping costs of the common area(s) must be posted prior to the recording
whether the landscaped area is proposed to be in city ownership or in a private
homeowners' association. Once the city building inspector inspects any
irrigation systems connected to the city water system and verifies the
landscaping work for all phases is completed, the cash bond is returned to the
cash bond holder.
   E.   Zones With Animal Rights:
      1.   Properties within zones that have animal rights may use the property
for raising of livestock and for other agriculture uses. This may include as
examples the use of corrals, pastures, coops, barns, barnyards, or feed
storage.
      2.   Corrals and pasture are permitted in the front yard except corrals
and pasture are not allowed in the planter strip area. Approval by the Elk
Ridge City planning commission is required for corrals or pasture in the front
yard. Coops, barns, barnyards, feed storage, hay bales, loading chutes, water
storage tanks, shall and must not be located in the front yard. Corrals,
pastures, coops, barns, barnyards, feed storage, hay bales, loading chutes,
water storage tanks, and the like, located in the front yard and existing prior
to the effective date of this paragraph, shall be grandfathered.
      3.   Weed control must be maintained in corral, pasture, coop, barn, and
barnyard areas. Noxious weeds and native grasses must be kept less than four
inches (4") tall within thirty feet (30') of a structure. Noxious weeds must be
kept less than twelve inches (12") tall for all other areas.
   F.   City Trees: Trees greatly enhance the aesthetic features of the city.
Tree lined streets increase property values, reduce summertime temperatures,
improve air quality, protect from solar glare, reduce UV rays, reduce
stormwater runoff, and reduce noise. The addition of trees in any landscaping
plan is encouraged. Trees planted in planter strips are known as street trees
and must meet certain requirements. The requirements for street trees are:
      1.   Single-Family New Construction: Each lot can have street trees. When
street trees are planted on a corner lot, the required sight distance at
intersections must be maintained in accordance with section
10-12-9 of this chapter. The trunk caliper of each tree should be approximately
one and one-half inches (1 1/2") to insure survival of the tree in the harsher
planter strip environment. The applicant shall be responsible for the
installation of street trees.
      2.   Multiple-Family Dwellings, Commercial Zones New Construction: Each
lot shall have a minimum of two (2) trees in a planter strip. If the lot is a
corner lot, there must be a minimum of two (2) additional trees in the planter
strip of the side yard. If the lot is a corner lot, the required sight distance
at intersections must be maintained in accordance with section
10-12-9 of this chapter. Street trees must have a trunk caliper of two inches
(2"). The applicant is responsible for the installation of the required street
trees.
      3.   Automatic Watering: The applicant must provide the street trees with
an adequate automatic watering system.
      4.   Tree Variety: At the time a multiple-family or commercial
development is constructed each street should have the same type of tree
planted along that street within the planter strip. The type of tree should
vary from one named street to the next. A variety of trees from street to
street in a development discourages disease and is encouraged.
      5.   Spacing: Lots with considerable frontage must have a maximum tree
spacing of fifty feet (50').
      6.   Approved Street Trees: All street trees must be approved by
resolution or the tree committee.
   G.   Landscape Maintenance:
      1.   Landscaped areas must be maintained in a neat, clean, and orderly
condition. This is meant to include proper pruning, lawn mowing, weeding,
removing of litter, fertilizing, replacing of dead plants, and regular watering
of all landscaped areas.
      2.   Maintenance of the planter strip and street trees in the planter
strip must be performed by the adjacent property owner.
      3.   Newly developed landscaped areas must be maintained with an
automatic sprinkler system or other appropriate irrigation systems.
      4.   All landscaping and/or nonlandscaped rear yards will be kept free
from noxious weeds and other nonnative volunteer plants that have the potential
to spread, by either growth or seed, beyond the containing yard or common area.
For fire safety, noxious weeds and native grasses must be kept less than four
inches (4") tall within thirty feet (30') of a structure. Noxious weeds must be
kept less than twelve inches (12") tall for all other areas and not allow to
reseed.
   H.   Landscaping Hazards: Landscaping must be maintained to prevent property
damage to sidewalks, roads, trails, or other public improvements and to avoid
public safety hazards. This may include the removal/replacement of dead or
decaying plant material and removal of low hanging branches obstructing
sidewalks and traffic sight distance requirements. In the event a tree, shrub,
or other plant causes damage to streets, sidewalks, trails, or other public
improvements, the city may order the removal of the offending vegetation and/or
other landscape features and may require the repair or replacement of the
damaged city property at the landowner's expense.
(Ord. 16-1, 5-24-2016; amd. Ord. 19-3, 9-24-2019; Ord. 23-03, 5-23-2023)
10-12-37: APPROVAL PROCESSES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intent And Purpose: It is the intent and purpose of this section to
develop and establish approval processes by which all new developments and
project proposals are approved within Elk Ridge City. It is also the intent of
this section to promote orderly growth and development within Elk Ridge City.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   Projects That Necessitate Such Action: All proposed development
projects within the city shall adhere to the regulations and requirements of
this section with the exception of the construction of signs and those projects
which require only a building permit. Planned mountain home developments,
planned unit developments, and all other similar development types are also
required to follow the provisions set forth herein, as applicable.
      2.   Reviewing Bodies:
         a.   City Council: The city council is a body of elected officials, as
provided in the city code, who shall review proposed developments as provided
in this section.
         b.   Planning Commission: The planning commission is a body of
appointed officials, as provided in the city code, who shall review proposed
developments as provided in this section.
         c.   Technical Review Committee: The technical review committee shall
be composed of city staff, elected officials, and others, as determined by the
city. The technical review committee shall review proposed developments, as
provided in this section and the city code.
      3.   Process: The process by which proposed projects shall be approved
shall be in accordance with this section, and in harmony with this development
code, building and construction standards, and the Elk Ridge City general plan
and appropriate master plans.
      4.   Simultaneous Approvals: Any development requiring annexation and
development approval may receive preliminary approval from the planning
commission and city council along with final annexation approval subject to the
following:
         a.   No project shall receive preliminary development approval before
receiving final annexation approval;
         b.   No proposed project shall submit final plans or have final plans
reviewed by any city body until any and all annexation approval has been
granted and preliminary approval has been given by the city council;
         c.   Planning commission or city council approval of an annexation
proposal does not equate to preliminary project approval for any such
development unless specifically stated by motion of the reviewing body; and
         d.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to submit
preliminary plans to be reviewed simultaneously with an annexation proposal
including, but not limited to, the payment of all nonrefundable application
fees.
      5.   Scheduling: No reviewing body shall review any application within
four (4) calendar days of another reviewing body's review of the same
application. Furthermore, no project shall receive any preliminary or final
approval from any city body, except as explicitly outlined in this section or
without proper review as part of an adequately noticed agenda as per the Utah
state code.
      6.   Fees: All required development application, review and processing
fees, as outlined in this section, shall be established by resolution of the
city council.
      7.   Plan Submittal Deadlines: All project submittals to be reviewed by
any reviewing body must be submitted in whole, as described herein, according
to the following deadline schedule:
         a.   City Council: In order to be eligible to be placed on a city
council agenda following the receipt of a planning commission recommendation, a
complete submittal, including all required plans, application forms, and fees
must be submitted to the Elk Ridge City recorder by the end of business hours
on the Thursday before the meeting in question.
         b.   Planning Commission: In order to be eligible to be placed on a
planning commission agenda, a complete submittal, including all required plans,
application forms, and fees must be submitted to the Elk Ridge City planning
department by the end of business hours on Thursday, one week before the
meeting in question.
         c.   Technical Review Committee: In order to be eligible to be placed
on a technical review committee agenda, a complete submittal, including all
required plans, application forms, and fees must be submitted to the Elk Ridge
City office by the end of business hours on Thursday, one week before the
meeting in question.
         d.   Holidays: In the event that a submittal deadline date, as
determined in this section, falls on a city observed holiday, the deadline
submittal date shall be determined to be the last regular workday before the
city observed holiday.
      8.   Notice: All agendas for meetings of any city reviewing body shall be
noticed in accordance with the Utah state code.
      9.   Conditional Uses: All proposed projects containing a conditional
use, as provided for in this development code, shall receive conditional use
approval by the planning commission or administration as detailed elsewhere in
this code prior to any development review submittal.
      10.   Public Hearings: All public hearings shall be held in accordance
with the provisions of the Utah state code.
      11.   Development Requirements: The development plan checklists detail
the requirements of a complete submittal of plans. All submittals requiring
staff review shall be required to have no more than two (2) checklist items
absent or obviously out of compliance from the combined total of all plans in
order to be accepted as a complete submittal. Checklists for all development
and review types shall be made available in the Elk Ridge City office.
   C.   Annexations: All proposed annexations shall conform to the process
depicted in exhibit A located at the end of this section and those outlined in
the Utah state code.
   D.   Subdivisions:
      1.   Projects That Apply: All residential subdivision projects resulting
in three (3) or more lots shall be required to conform to the provisions set
forth herein. Developments which results in a total of two (2) lots or less
shall adhere to the provisions set forth in subsection D4 of this section.
      2.   Subdivision Approval Process: Proposed subdivision proposals shall
conform to the review processes depicted in exhibits B and C located at the end
of this section.
      3.   Notification To Public Utility Companies: At least fourteen (14)
days prior to planning commission preliminary review of any proposed
subdivision, the subdivider shall provide the city with a notification packet
as proof that notice of the proposed subdivision has been issued to each public
utility company. The city may, at its discretion, maintain the contact
information of the necessary utility companies, although it shall remain the
sole responsibility of the subdivider to ensure that all public utility
companies have been properly notified. The notification packet shall be in
accordance with the following:
         a.   A copy of the signed notification letter sent to the utility
companies including any and all maps and attachments and at least the
following:
            (1)   The date of the notice;
            (2)   The exact time, location and place of the planning
commission's preliminary review of the proposed subdivision, as determined and
scheduled by the city;
            (3)   That the utility company has the right to be present at each
review of the proposal, or provide input by other means, in order to express
any comments or concerns they may have regarding the proposed subdivision;
            (4)   The approximate address of the property on which the proposed
subdivision would occur;
            (5)   A detailed description of the proposal including copies of
maps, plans or graphics;
            (6)   A description of the requirement for notification;
            (7)   The zoning of the property on which the proposed subdivision
would occur;
            (8)   A statement declaring the planning commission's preliminary
review is to be the first in a series of reviews of the proposed subdivision;
            (9)   Contact information for the applicant and the city; and
            (10)   The signature of the applicant;
         b.   A complete list of names and addresses of the utility companies
to which the notices have been sent, including the individual of attention; and
         c.   Photocopy(ies) of all receipts from an office of the United
States post office which clearly displays at least the following:
            (1)   The stamped date of mailing through U.S. certified mail; and
            (2)   The names and addresses of each intended recipient, as
displayed on the notification list.
      4.   Minor Subdivisions: Residential developments which results in no
more than two (2) total lots shall be reviewed in accordance with the
following:
         a.   Application Requirements: Submission materials and accompanying
maps and drawings shall conform to the requirements of a final subdivision plat
submittal. In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for the payment of
fees for the submittal as established in the Elk Ridge City fee schedule.
         b.   Technical Review Committee Review: Prior to review by the
planning commission, applications for a single lot split shall be subject to
the review and approval of the technical review committee to ensure that the
application materials and accompanying maps and drawings conform to the
requirements of this title, construction standards, and any other applicable
city or state requirements.
         c.   Planning Commission Review: After proper review by and
recommendation from the technical review committee, the planning commission
shall review all such submittals for compliance with this title, general plan,
and all applicable master plans of Elk Ridge City. Following adequate and
sufficient review, the planning commission shall recommend the application for
approval, approval with conditions or denial to the city council.
         d.   City Council Review: Upon receipt of a recommendation from the
planning commission, the city council shall review such applications for
compliance with the general plan and the health, safety, and general welfare of
the citizens of Elk Ridge. Following review of such applications, the city
council shall render a decision of approval, approval with conditions or denial
for the application within a reasonable time period. Any party aggrieved by the
decision of the city council may file a written appeal of the decision with the
appeal authority within thirty (30) days of the decision.
         e.   Recording: After receiving all required approvals, the applicant
shall prepare a plat of the lot split with any and all conditions of approval
to be recorded in the office of the Utah County recorder. Said plat shall first
be submitted to the city office for the necessary stamps and signatures of city
officials. Once completed and properly stamped and signed, it shall be the sole
responsibility of the applicant to pick up the plat from the city office and
submit said plat, including the payment of all required recording fees, to the
office of the Utah County recorder.
   E.   Plat Vacation:
      1.   Planning Commission Recommendation Required: Prior to any city
council review, with or without a petition, of a proposed vacation, alteration,
or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision plat, or any
street, lot, or alley contained in a subdivision plat, the proposal shall be
referred to the planning commission for its recommendation. The planning
commission shall hold a public hearing, following appropriate public notice,
and shall give its recommendation to the city council with regard to the
proposal within thirty (30) days after the proposed vacation, alteration, or
amendment is referred to it. The city council shall issue a decision regarding
the proposal.
      2.   File Petition: Any citizen wishing to vacate, alter, or amend a
subdivision plat may file a petition to do so with the planning commission and
the planning commission shall then hold a public hearing. The city council
shall issue a decision regarding the proposal within forty five (45) days after
receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission regarding the
petition.
      3.   Petition Contents: A petition to vacate, alter, or amend a
subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision plat, or a street, lot, or alley
contained in a subdivision plat shall include:
         a.   The name and address of all owners of record of real property
contained in the entire plat;
         b.   The name and address of all owners of record of real property
located within four hundred feet (400') of any street that is proposed to be
vacated, altered, or amended; and
         c.   The signature of each property owner who consents to the
petition.
      4.   Public Hearing: When the city council proposes to vacate, alter, or
amend a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision plat, or a street, lot,
or alley contained in a subdivision plat, they shall consider the
recommendation of the planning commission given following a public hearing
after giving the notice required by this chapter.
      5.   Notice Of Hearing For Plat Change:
         a.   The applicant shall notify each owner of real property located
within three hundred feet (300') of the property that is the subject of the
proposed plat change, addressed to the owner's mailing address appearing on the
most recent assessment rolls of the Utah County assessor.
         b.   The notice shall include the date, place, and time when the
hearing will be held to consider such proposed plat change, as well as a
description of the desired change.
         c.   If the proposed change involves the vacation, alteration, or
amendment of a street, the city council shall also cause notice of the date,
place, and time of the hearing regarding the matter to be given by publishing
the notice for at least four (4) consecutive weeks prior to such hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city and posting a notice in three (3)
public places in the city for at least four (4) consecutive weeks prior to such
hearing.
      6.   Grounds For Vacating Or Changing A Plat:
         a.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing required by this
chapter, the city council shall consider the petition.
         b.   If the city council is satisfied that neither the public nor any
person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation, alteration, or
amendment, and that there is good cause for the vacation, alteration, or
amendment, then the city council may take action to vacate, alter or amend the
plat, any portion of the plat, or any street or lot.
         c.   The city council may ensure that the vacation, alteration, or
amendment is recorded in the office of the Utah County recorder, as applicable.
         d.   Any aggrieved party may appeal to a court of competent
jurisdiction as detailed within Utah state code section 10-9-1001.
   F.   Lot Line Adjustments: Petitions to adjust lot lines between adjacent
properties, whether or not in a recorded subdivision, shall be reviewed in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Application Requirements: Submission materials and accompanying maps
and drawings shall conform to the requirements of a final subdivision plat
submittal. In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for the payment of
fees for the submittal as established in the Elk Ridge City fee schedule.
      2.   Technical Review Committee Review: Prior to review by the planning
commission, applications for a lot line adjustment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the technical review committee to ensure that the
application materials and accompanying maps and drawings conform to the
requirements of this title, and construction standards. The technical review
committee shall also ensure that the application is in complete compliance with
the following:
         a.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit results from the lot line
adjustment;
         b.   The adjoining property owners consent to the lot line adjustment;
         c.   The lot line adjustment does not result in remnant land that did
not previously exist;
         d.   The adjustment does not result in violation of the city code;
         e.   The proposal has been reviewed and/or approved by all appropriate
utility companies, as determined by the zoning administrator, to ensure the
integrity of a public utility easement; and
         f.   Any and all other provisions of the Utah state code.
      3.   Planning Commission Review: After proper review by and
recommendation from the technical review committee, the planning commission
shall review all such submittals for compliance with this title, general plan,
and all applicable master plans of Elk Ridge City. Following adequate and
sufficient review, the planning commission shall recommend the application for
approval, approval with conditions or denial to the city council.
      4.   City Council Review: Upon receipt of a recommendation from the
planning commission, the city council shall review such applications for
compliance with the general plan and the health, safety, and general welfare of
the citizens of Elk Ridge. Following review of such applications, the city
council shall render a decision of approval, approval with conditions or denial
for the application within a reasonable time period. Any party aggrieved by the
decision of the city council may file a written appeal of the decision with the
appeal authority within thirty (30) days of the decision.
      5.   Recording: After receiving all required approvals, the applicant
shall prepare a plat of the lot line adjustment with any and all conditions of
approval to be recorded in the office of the Utah County recorder. Said plat
shall first be submitted to the city office for the necessary stamps and
signatures of city officials. Once completed and properly stamped and signed,
it shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant to pick up the plat from
the city office and submit said plat, including the payment of all required
recording fees, to the office of the Utah County recorder.
   G.   Commercial Site Plans:
      1.   Projects That Apply: Site plan review shall be required of all new
and expanding commercial development projects in accordance with this section.
Development shall occur according to the following standards and requirements.
      2.   Plan Reviews: Site plan reviews must be completed prior to an
application for a building permit.
      3.   Submission Requirements: The following items shall be submitted for
design review of all commercial site plan proposals:
         a.   Five (5) twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") sets of
the site plan;
         b.   Eight (8) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") sets of the
site plan; and
         c.   Application fees, as determined in the Elk Ridge City fee
schedule.
      4.   Site Plan Requirements: The following shall be included on site plan
drawings (as they apply):
         a.   A vicinity map accurately locating the property within the city;
         b.   The names and addresses of property owner(s), the developer, and
the surveyor and/or engineer;
         c.   Adjacent property lines and names of property owners;
         d.   Boundary lines of the site and sufficient information to define
their location, length, and bearing;
         e.   Dimensions and square footage of the site;
         f.   Names and locations of adjacent streets;
         g.   Locations and dimensions of existing and proposed on and off site
improvements, showing and including the following information:
            (1) Buildings, including a notation as to whether they will remain,
be modified, or be demolished and showing their finished floor elevations;
            (2) Building elevation showing dimensions and materials present or
proposed;
            (3) Vehicular accesses and egresses;
            (4) Parking facilities showing the dimensions of stalls and aisles,
the number of stalls present and proposed, compliance with ADA requirements and
this development code, and surfacing type;
            (5) Spot elevations on the asphalt surface, as will be needed for
construction, showing the direction and magnitude of slopes;
            (6) Curb and gutter with spot elevations and slopes in plan view;
            (7) Sidewalk location, width, and spot elevations in plan view;
            (8) The location, size, and elevations of storm water detention
areas, locations, sizes, flow line, and grate elevations of storm water
improvements, the locations, sizes, types, lengths, slopes, and flow line
elevations of storm water pipes, the maximum water surface contour in detention
areas, and details of any special structures, including outlet control
structures such as orifice plates;
            (9) The locations and sizes of existing and proposed utility mains
and laterals;
            (10) The location of fire hydrants with valves to be placed at the
main line connection, subject to fire department approval;
            (11) The location and size of water meters which are to be placed
behind sidewalk or curb, as applicable, with vaults being required when the
meter is in asphalt or concrete;
            (12) Backflow prevention devices;
            (13) Pressure reducing valves;
            (14) Landscaping, showing compliance with all applicable city
landscaping ordinances and regulations, and details on specific types and
locations of landscaping features, including materials to be used;
            (15) Detailed description and design of the irrigation system to be
used for landscaping purposes;
            (16) The location, heights, and type of materials used for fencing
(a 6 foot masonry fence may be required when commercial development is adjacent
to a residential zone or use);
            (17) The locations, sizes, and descriptions of signs;
            (18) The size, direction of flow, and any proposed changes to
irrigation ditches;
            (19) The location of solid waste disposal dumpsters and details of
the required sight obscuring enclosure;
            (20) Loading and unloading areas for products to be used or sold in
the development;
            (21) Floor drains within buildings or a note on the plans
indicating that there will be no floor drains;
            (22) The location, size, and elevation of manholes; and
            (23) The location, nature and detail drawings of any grease traps.
         h.   Tabulations showing square footage of the following:
            (1) The total site;
            (2) Landscaping;
            (3) Impervious and other hard surfaced areas;
            (4) Undeveloped area, if applicable; and
            (5) Footprint area of all proposed and/or remaining buildings.
         i.   Existing contours at two foot (2') intervals in areas of slope
less than thirty percent (30%), and at ten foot (10') intervals in areas of
slope greater than thirty percent (30%);
         j.   Proposed finished grade contours at two foot (2') intervals;
         k.   The location of any areas of potential flood hazard within the
site or within three hundred feet (300') of the site;
         l.   Storm drainage calculations, as applicable, including:
            (1) Hydrologic calculations showing peak flow calculations for the
site with all input data, calculations, and results being submitted;
            (2) Hydrologic calculations and capacity calculations for each
segment of the system; and
            (3) Detention calculations, including:
               (A) An analysis of the detention volume requirements that
identifies the storm whose duration creates the greatest detention volume
requirement, given storm duration, stage storage curve, and outlet discharge
curve; and
               (B) Orifice calculations showing the maximum release rate is not
exceeded.
         m.   Notes on all site plans and site plan amendments addressing at
least the following:
            (1) The applicant is responsible for compliance with all
requirements of the Americans with disabilities act (ADA);
            (2) Detailed fire protection plans shall be submitted and approved
with the building permit plans;
            (3) Additional requirements may be identified during the plan
review by the fire department, which may be mandated by the international fire
code, or subsequently adopted code;
            (4) All landscaped areas shall have an automatic, underground
sprinkling system with a backflow prevention device and a backflow prevention
device to the building;
            (5) All improvements and work to be done on site shall be done in
accordance with city standards; and
            (6) Water meters are to be located behind the sidewalk or behind
the curb in an area that is accessible, not located behind fenced areas, or
under covered parking.
      5.   Approval Process: Site plans, as required by this section, shall be
approved according to the process depicted in exhibit D located at the end of
this section. The planning commission and/or city council shall have the
ability to require any such submittal to conform to the approval process as
depicted in exhibits B and/or C located at the end of this section if it finds
that:
         a.   The site includes areas of environmental sensitivity that
necessitates extra cautious review;
         b.   The site contains oddities that may require added or special
attention;
         c.   The site plan is deemed too complex and necessitates additional
review time and attention;
         d.   The review time for the site plan becomes cumbersome;
         e.   The review of the site plans is contested by one or more citizens
of Elk Ridge; or
         f.   Compliance with the provisions of the application or approval
requirements are sufficiently lacking or not met.
   H.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Projects That Apply: Any use of land or development proposed which
is determined within the city code to be a conditional use shall comply with
the requirements of this section prior to seeking any other approval necessary
to permit the proposed activity or use.
   2.   Notification To Property Owners: At least ten (10) days prior to the
planning commission or administrative review meeting at which the permit
request will be first considered, the city shall mail notice of the pending
review to all adjacent property owners, as they appear on the official current
rolls of the Utah County assessor, within three hundred feet (300') of the
outermost boundary of the property on which the conditional use is proposed to
occur. The notice shall advise the property owner that he or she has the right
to be present at the meeting and to express any comments or concerns they may
have regarding the proposed conditional use.
   3.   Planning Commission Or Administrative Approval: The planning commission
or administrative approval, as detailed elsewhere in this code shall be the
final approving authority, subject to the right of appeal for applications for
conditional use permits. The planning commission or administration shall review
the proposed conditional use permit application while considering the criteria
and factors set forth in this section and subsection
10-12-33F of this chapter. An application for a conditional use permit shall be
approved, approved with conditions, or denied. Because every application is
unique and different, planning commission or administrative review, approval,
or denial, for a conditional use permit application shall take into
consideration only those facts and information pertaining to the application
specifically and may not take into consideration information or base decisions
upon other similar projects or uses, or denial thereof, within the city. The
validity of the permit shall be conditioned upon strict compliance with
applicable city ordinances, the approved site plan, and any additional
conditions of approval handed down by the planning commission.
   I.   Residential Site Plans:
      1.   Projects That Apply: At any time that a site plan is required within
this code for a single lot residential construction, the subject development
shall conform to the regulations as stipulated herein.
      2.   Plan Reviews: Site plan reviews must be completed prior to an
application for a building permit.
      3.   Submission Requirements: The following items shall be submitted for
design review of all residential site plan proposals:
         a.   Five (5) twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") sets of
the site plan;
         b.   Eight (8) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") sets of the
site plan; and
         c.   Application fees, as determined in the Elk Ridge City fee
schedule.
      4.   Site Plan Requirements: At least the following information shall be
included on site plan drawings (as they apply):
         a.   The name of the property owner and address of the property being
depicted, as well as proof of ownership of the property which is to accompany
the drawings and not be depicted;
         b.   The scale at which the site plan is drawn with the scale being of
a reasonable, traditional engineering type scale of no greater than one inch to
fifty feet (1":50');
         c.   The date on which the drawings were produced, as well as the date
of any subsequent revisions;
         d.   A north arrow;
         e.   The name and address of the professional and/or firm producing
the plans;
         f.   A vicinity map showing the location of major streets, city
boundaries, and the rough location of the property within the city;
         g.   The legal description of the property;
         h.   The size of the property in square feet with lots of greater than
one acre showing lot size in acres and square feet;
         i.   All lot or property lines, including bearing and distance, and
the buildable area boundaries;
         j.   The location and nature of any and all existing and proposed
structures to be built or placed on the lot;
         k.   The location, size, and type of all existing and proposed drives,
sidewalks, curb and gutter, curb cuts, signs, parking facilities, recreation
areas, common use areas, and areas to be dedicated to the city for public use;
         l.   The location, dimension, and type of all rights of way,
easements, streets, alleys, or roads on or abutting the lot or property;
         m.   The existing zoning of the property;
         n.   Contours for the entire lot or property at no more than two foot
(2') intervals for areas of less than thirty percent (30%) slope and ten foot
(10') intervals for areas of greater than thirty percent (30%) slope;
         o.   Random natural state spot elevations, in an amount deemed
sufficient by the city engineer, with corresponding elevations for finished
grade, including spot elevations for finished floor elevation of the main floor
of the primary structure;
         p.   The general location and type of landscaping or vegetation
anticipated to be installed, as well as the description and general location of
any part of the lot or property to be left native;
         q.   The location, type, and size of any and all existing, proposed,
or anticipated fencing, walls, or retaining walls (all retaining walls are to
be engineered as required within the international building code);
         r.   The location of the nearest fire hydrant to the property and the
location of any fire hydrant to be installed as a part of or associated with
the development depicted on the site plan;
         s.   The location, type, and size of any and all existing and proposed
utility mains and service laterals, including, but not limited to, water,
sewer, natural gas, and electricity, and storm drainage facilities;
         t.   An original stamp, on each twenty four inch by thirty six inch
(24" x 36") drawing of the professional engineer and/or surveyor preparing the
site plan; stamps may be photocopies on eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x
17") drawings;
         u.   Notes on all site plans and site plan amendments addressing at
least the following:
            (1) The applicant is responsible for compliance with all
requirements of the Americans with disabilities act (ADA);
            (2) Detailed fire protection plans shall be submitted and approved
with the building permit plans;
            (3) Additional requirements may be identified during the plan
review by the fire department, which may be mandated by the international fire
code, or subsequently adopted code;
            (4) All landscaped areas shall have an automatic, underground
sprinkling system with a backflow prevention device and a backflow prevention
device to the building;
            (5) All improvements and work to be done on site shall be done in
accordance with city standards; and
            (6) Water meters are to be located behind the sidewalk or behind
the curb in an area that is accessible, not located behind fenced areas, or
under covered parking.
      5.   Approval Process: Site plans, as required by this section, shall be
approved according to the process depicted in exhibit D located at the end of
this section. The planning commission and/or city council shall have the
ability to require any such submittal to conform to the approval process as
depicted in exhibit B located at the end of this section if it finds that:
         a.   The site includes areas of environmental sensitivity that
necessitates extra cautious review;
         b.   The site contains oddities that may require added or special
attention;
         c.   The site plan is deemed too complex and necessitates additional
review time and attention;
         d.   The review time for the site plan becomes cumbersome;
         e.   The review of the site plans is contested by one or more citizens
of Elk Ridge; or
         f.   Compliance with the provisions of the application or approval
requirements is sufficiently lacking or not met.
   J.   Building Lots: A lot of record which meets the minimum lot standards
for the zoning classification in which it is located and which, according to
the records of Elk Ridge City, has not been approved as a building lot may be
approved for construction on the site following application to the city council
for review. The city council, based on the lot's compliance with the general
intent of the city code and evidence of the availability of municipal services
to the lot, may approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application for a
lot of record to be considered buildable. Nonconforming lots of record shall
comply with the terms of section
10-13-8 of this title. Following approval of a buildable lot, the owner of said
lot shall be required to fulfill all application, process and fee requirements
for any desired construction on the lot.
(Ord. 04-6, 7-13-2004, eff. 8-13-2004; amd. Ord. 06-3, 2-10-2006; Ord. 06-7, 4-
25-2006; Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-4, 2-26-2008; Ord. 08-9, 7-8-2008; Ord.
10-5, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010; Ord. 19-01, 1-8-2019; Ord. 22-06, 9-13-2022)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1534.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1536.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1538.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1540.gif]
10-12-38: FIRE SPRINKLING SYSTEMS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Automatic fire sprinkler systems are required to be installed in any
new residential building serviced by the Elk Ridge City water system or,
Goosenest Water Company water systems, or within the Elk Ridge City boundaries,
if any of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The structure:
         a.   Is located in an urban-wildlife interface area as provided in the
Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted as a Construction Code under the
State Construction Code; and
         b.   Does not meet the requirements described in Utah Code, subsection
65A-8-203(4)(a) and Utah Administrative Code, R652-122-200, Minimum Standards
for Wildland Fire Ordinance;
      2.   The structure is in an area where a public water distribution system
with fire hydrants does not exist as required in Utah Administrative Code R309-
550-5, Water Main Design;
      3.   The only fire apparatus access road has a grade greater than ten
percent (10%) for more than five hundred (500) continual feet;
      4.   The total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls
of the dwelling unit exceeds ten thousand (10,000) square feet; or
      5.   The total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls
of the dwelling unit is double the average of the total floor area of all floor
levels of unsprinkled homes in the subdivision that are no larger than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.
This requirement is for new construction of any heated structure or
construction that constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) expansion of any
dwelling unit and shall include any attached garage. The fire sprinkler system
shall comply with the Fire Code and related regulations and the National Fire
Protection Association article 13D standards adopted by the City. Sprinklers
shall be provided with an exterior inspector's test port that complies with the
following specifications or other material approved by the Fire Chief: a wall
hydrant that is a Woodford model 65 (exposed type) or B65. (Ord. 17-7, 8-22-
2017)
10-12-39: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Building Height: The maximum main building height in a residential zone
shall be thirty five feet (35'). Building height shall be the vertical height,
as measured from the average elevation of the natural grade of the four (4)
major corners where the structure is to be located, to the roofline. For a home
that steps down a slope, the four (4) major corners of each step of the main
structure can be used. If the measurements used for building height are
questioned by City staff, the Planning Commission will review and make a
determination.
   B.   Determining Roofline: The roofline of the structure shall be as
follows:
      1.   Flat Roof: The highest of a flat roof or top of any adjacent parapet
wall, whichever is higher.
      2.   Mansard Type Roof: The deck line.
      3.   Gable, Hip Or Gambrel Roof: The elevation measured at the midpoint
between the highest part of the roof ridgeline and the lowest elevation of the
eaves of the main roof structure (not including independent, incidental roof
structures over porches, garages and similar add on portions of the structure).
      4.   Individual Heights: For a home that steps down a slope, individual
heights for each step of the main structure roofline can be used.
   C.   Structures Not Calculated In Height: Chimneys, flagpoles, television
antennas, satellite dishes, and similar ancillary structures not used for human
occupancy shall be excluded in determining height provided that no such
structure shall extend over fifteen feet (15') above the building.
   D.   Building Design On Hillsides: Single-family residences constructed on
hillsides should step down the hillside rather than regrading the hillside into
a flat site. A simple box form will stand out from the natural, complex
undulations of hillsides more than a building form that is broken into smaller
elements. A building can be broken up by raising and lowering the roofline,
varying the face of the building, adding balconies and overhangs, etc. These
elements create shadow patterns that are similar to shadows cast by rocks,
trees and cliffs on hillsides and tend to lessen the apparent size of the
building.
   E.   Building With Natural Terrain: To the maximum extent feasible,
buildings shall be sited in locations that are sympathetic to existing contours
rather than those that require a building solution that would dominate the
site. Buildings shall be designed to follow natural contours rather than
modifying the land to accept a building design not tailored to the site. Cuts
and fills shall be kept to a minimum and be used to allow for proper drainage
away from dwellings and neighboring properties.
   F.   Exception To Building Height/Building With Natural Terrain: The
planning commission can grant an exception to the average height and the strict
compliance of building with the natural contours if the commission finds the
following to apply:
      1.   The building design is better suited for the site than what can be
achieved by strict compliance to these regulations.
      2.   The topography of the lot presents practical difficulties for
construction when the height/cutting and filling/grading limitations are
applied.
      3.   The structure has been designed for the topographic conditions
existing on the particular lot.
      4.   The impact of additional height on neighboring properties has been
identified and reasonably mitigated.
      5.   Additional cuts or fills are needed to allow for development of the
lot and are not being used just to achieve a better view.
      6.   Additional fill is needed due to the location of sewer lines.
      7.   If the front side of the structure is proposed for additional
height, the fire chief shall give approval.
   G.   Minimum Height: The minimum height of any building shall be not less
than eight feet (8') above the natural grade. (Ord. 08-15, 9-23-2008, eff. 9-
24-2008)
10-12-40: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS:
   A.   A residential facility for elderly persons may not operate as a
business;
   B.   A residential facility for elderly persons shall:
      1.   Be owned by one of the residents or by an immediate family member of
one of the residents or be a facility for which the title has been placed in
trust for a resident;
      2.   Be consistent with any existing, applicable land use ordinance
affecting the desired location; and
      3.   Be occupied on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis by eight (8) or
fewer elderly persons in a family type arrangement.
   C.   A residential facility for elderly persons may not be considered a
business because a fee is charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of
operation and maintenance of the facility. (Ord. 11-04, 4-12-2011, eff. 6-9-
2011)
10-12-41: DWELLING SIZE REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
   A.   All dwellings must provide a minimum finished living space area as
outlined in table 1 of this section. For purposes of calculating required
finished area, square footage in basements shall not qualify. For multi-story
houses, finished area on floors that are at least fifty percent (50%) below the
finished grade of the lot shall not count toward the required finished area.
   TABLE 1
   DWELLING SIZE REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL ZONES
        Minimum Lot    Rambler     Multi-Story
   ZoSize        No       With     No       With
                    Basement Basement Basement Basement
                 Minimum Lot    Rambler       Multi-Story
   Zone       Size        No       With       No       With
                             Basement Basement   Basement Basement
R-1-15,000       15,000 sf   1,800 sf 1,600 sf   2,200 sf 2,000 sf
R-1-20,000       20,000 sf   2,000 sf 1,800 sf   2,400 sf 2,200 sf
R-1-12,000       12,000 sf   1,600 sf 1,400 sf   2,000 sf 1,800 sf
RR-1             20,000 sf   2,000 sf 1,800 sf   2,400 sf 2,200 sf
R&L-1-20,000     20,000 sf   2,000 sf 1,800 sf   2,400 sf 2,200 sf
HR-1             40,000 sf   2,500 sf 2,200 sf   2,800 sf 2,400 sf
CE-2             5 acres     2,000 sf 1,800 sf   2,400 sf 2,200 sf
Hillside Cluster 20,000 sf   As approved by City As approved by City Council
Overlay                      Council
Mountain Home    20,000 sf   As approved by City As approved by City Council
Developments                 Council
 
(Ord. 12-8, 12-11-2012; amd. Ord. 18-1, 1-23-2018)
10-12-42: REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION:
   A.   Applicability: This section shall apply to those situations where
strict adherence to the land use, zoning and building regulations, policies,
practices and procedures may create barriers to housing opportunities for
persons with a disability or conflict with State and Federal Fair Housing Laws.
   B.   Legislative Intent: The intent of this section is:
      1.   To allow persons with disabilities the same rights and privileges to
live in the City's residential areas as those persons who are not disabled by
providing a secondary review mechanism to allow flexibility in the application
of land use, zoning and building regulations, policies, practices and
procedures, or even waiving certain requirements, where necessary to eliminate
barriers to housing opportunities and comply with Fair Housing Laws; and
      2.   To outline the processes and procedures for requesting, and review
of requests for reasonable accommodation in compliance with State and Federal
Fair Housing Laws.
   C.   Reasonable Accommodation: A request for reasonable accommodation may be
made by any individual with a disability, his or her representative, or a
developer or provider of housing for individuals with disabilities, when the
application of a land use, zoning or building regulation, policy, practice or
procedure acts as a barrier to fair housing opportunities.
      1.   Application: Any person or entity who wishes to request a reasonable
accommodation shall make request to the City Zoning Administrator in writing,
and shall provide the following information:
         a.   The name, mailing address, and phone number of the individual(s)
requesting the reasonable accommodation; and
         b.   The name, mailing address of the property owner(s); and
         c.   The address of the property for which the request is desired; and
         d.   A description of the requested accommodation including statement
of the regulation(s), policy or procedure for which the accommodation is
sought; and
         e.   The reason that the requested accommodation may be necessary for
the individual(s) with the disability to use and enjoy the dwelling.
   D.   Timing: Requests for reasonable accommodation will be reviewed by the
City Zoning Administrator within seven (7) days for completeness. Once the
request is deemed complete it will be scheduled on the next open agenda for a
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting. If the regularly scheduled
meeting is scheduled for more than thirty (30) days out, a special Planning
Commission meeting will be scheduled to accommodate the request. Once the
request is scheduled on the Planning Commission agenda, excepting the Planning
Commission or the City Council requires additional information from the
individual making the request, that is consistent with the Fair Housing Laws,
the City Council shall provide a written decision in thirty (30) days. If
additional information is required of the individual making the request, the
thirty (30) day period shall be stayed until the next available meeting
following the receipt of the requested information.
   E.   Decision: The request for reasonable accommodation shall be reviewed
and recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the City Council
including, but not limited to, consideration of the following criteria:
      1.   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation is necessary to
afford a person with a disability equal opportunity to use and enjoy a
dwelling;
      2.   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would fundamentally
alter the City's land use and zoning regulations or likely create a fundamental
change in the character of a residential neighborhood;
      3.   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would impose an undue
administrative or financial burden on the City.
   F.   Appeals: If a reasonable accommodation request is denied, the decision
may be appealed to the City Appeal Authority which will consider the grounds
for the appeal. The appeal must be filed with the City Appeal Authority no more
than ten (10) days after the date of the City Council written decision. All
appeals shall state the reason for the appeal and provide supporting
documentation. The appeal process shall follow the guidelines set in title 2,
chapter 2, "Appeal Authority", of the City Code. (Ord. 13-4, 4-9-2013)
10-12-43: OUTDOOR LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of this section is to
protect and preserve the existing dark sky characteristics of Elk Ridge, as
provided for in the general plan by:
      1.   Reducing, eliminating, or preventing light trespass;
      2.   Reducing, eliminating, or preventing unnecessary or inappropriate
outdoor lighting;
      3.   Reducing, eliminating, or preventing the effects of outdoor lighting
on wildlife;
      4.   Preventing unsightly and unsafe glare;
      5.   Promoting energy conservation;
      6.   Maintaining nighttime safety, utility, and security;
      7.   Encouraging a minimal light footprint of land uses in order to
reduce light pollution.
   B.   General Requirements:
      1.   Conformance With All Applicable Codes: All outdoor lighting shall be
installed in conformance with the provisions of this section, applicable
Electrical Codes, and applicable sections of the Building Code.
      2.   Applicability: Except as described below, all outdoor lighting
installed after the effective date of this section, shall comply with these
requirements.
The following are not regulated by this section:
         a.   Lighting for public monuments and statuary.
         b.   Temporary lighting for theatrical performances, projection
screens, performance areas, and construction sites.
         c.   Underwater lighting used for illumination of swimming pools and
decorative water fountains.
         d.   Temporary lighting and seasonal lighting provided that individual
lamps are less than seventy (70) lumens.
         e.   Emergency lighting used by police, firefighting, medical
personnel, and maintenance of utilities and public infrastructure may be used
under emergency conditions.
         f.   Residential construction permitted prior to March 27, 2018.
      3.   Exceptions: The following shall take precedence over this section:
         a.   Lighting specifically required by Federal, State, or County laws
or regulations.
         b.   Lighting allowed by special use permit.
   C.   Residential Lighting: New residential construction shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Exterior Lighting: All exterior structure lighting shall be fully
shielded either by the design of the light fixture or by the architectural
features of the structure. Lighting that results in light trespass is
prohibited.
      2.   Upward Lighting: Upward lighting illuminating a structure may
illuminate the walls and under the eaves but shall not be directed to
illuminate beyond the eaves.
      3.   Eave Lighting: Eave lighting shall be fully shielded and downward
directed. Angled eave lighting that directs light beyond the face of the eave
is prohibited. Eave lighting shall not create excessive glare due to reflective
surfaces on the structure.
      4.   Flood Lighting: Flood lighting is permitted meeting the following
requirements:
         a.   Shall be downward directed targeting a specific area on the
subject property, with no light extending beyond the subject property boundary.
         b.   Flood lighting luminaires shall be shielded and aimed so that
direct glare is not visible from adjacent properties.
         c.   Flood lighting shall be installed with a motion or vacancy
sensor, where lights shut off no more than fifteen (15) minutes after an area
is vacated.
      5.   Landscape Lighting: Landscape lighting is permitted meeting the
following requirements:
         a.   Landscape lighting shall be directed inward, away from the
subject property boundary.
         b.   Landscape lighting of trees, plants, ponds or other ornamental
features shall not extend illumination beyond the feature it is intended to
illuminate.
   D.   Public Facilities/Commercial Lighting: All proposed public facilities
and commercial development requiring exterior lighting shall submit to the City
as part of the design package lighting layout drawings including but not
limited to the types of lights proposed with specifications, location of lights
including height, and photometric analysis (lighting coverage).
      1.   Hardscape Lighting: All hardscape areas (parking, corridors,
lobbies, etc.) of non-residential properties, common areas associated with
residential properties, and public parking facilities shall comply with the
following subsections. This section is not applicable to public recreation
facilities with hard surfaces.
         a.   Total Site Lumen Limit: The total installed lumens of all outdoor
lighting shall not exceed the total site lumen limit. The total site lumen
limit shall not exceed two (2) lumens per square foot. The area is measured by
the total outdoor hard surface area that shall be lit. This ratio shall be
calculated by combining the total lumen output of each artificial light source
divided by the square footage of the parking lot area.
         b.   Height Of Luminaries: Poles shall be sized in such a manner that
the top of the luminary does not exceed fifteen feet (15') above adjacent
grade.
         c.   Light Trespass Standard: All luminaries, including security
lighting shall be aimed and shielded so that the direct illumination shall be
confined to the property boundaries of the source.
         d.   Canopy Lighting: All direct artificial light sources shall be
sufficiently recessed so as not to project direct light greater than five feet
(5') from the outside perimeter of the canopy, and shall not produce more than
a ratio of eight (8) lumens per square foot of canopy area. This ratio shall be
calculated by combining the total lumen output of each artificial light source
and dividing by the square footage of the canopy.
      2.   Softscape Lighting: All softscape areas (play grounds, yards, open
space, etc.) of non-residential properties, common areas associated with
residential properties, and public facilities shall comply with the following
subsections. For the purpose of this section, trails and sidewalks less than
ten feet (10') in width can be considered in the softscaped area. This section
is not applicable to public recreation facilities with soft surfaces.
         a.   Outdoor Luminaries: All outdoor luminaries shall be fully
shielded and shall not exceed one thousand six hundred (1,600) lumens.
         b.   Flood Lighting: Flood lighting is permitted meeting the following
requirements:
            (1) Flood lighting luminaires shall be shielded and aimed so that
direct glare is not visible from adjacent properties.
            (2) Flood lighting shall be installed with a motion or vacancy
sensor, where lights shut off no more than fifteen (15) minutes after an area
is vacated.
         c.   Landscape Lighting: Landscape lighting is permitted meeting the
following requirements:
            (1) Low voltage landscape lighting shall not exceed five hundred
twenty five (525) lumens.
            (2) Landscape lighting of trees, plants, ponds or other ornamental
features shall not exceed one thousand six hundred (1,600) lumens and shall not
leave trespass beyond the feature it is intended to illuminate.
      3.   Recreation Facilities: All public recreation facilities shall have
an approved lighting design applicable to the type of facility and must comply
with the requirements of this section.
         a.   Lighting must not exceed the limits in subsection E, "Prohibited
Lighting", of this section.
         b.   The lighting shall not exceed a ratio of ten (10) lumens per
square foot of recreation activity area. This ratio shall be calculated by
combining the total lumen output of each artificial light source divided by the
square footage of the recreation activity area. And shall be lit only when the
area is in use.
         c.   The lighting for the recreation activity area shall only be
directed onto the area where the recreation activities are occurring. It shall
not be allowed to illuminate surfaces that are not essential to the function of
the recreation activity.
      4.   Light Curfew: Except for residential uses, all outdoor lighting
shall be turned off by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., or, if applicable, within one
hour after the close of business, whichever is later, except the following:
         a.   Lighting to illuminate the entrance of the building;
         b.   Safety lighting of parking lots and pedestrian areas;
         c.   Lighting necessary for after-hours business.
   E.   Prohibited Lighting: The following lighting systems are prohibited from
being installed or used:
         a.   Temporary or permanent lighting in which any single luminary
exceeds twenty thousand (20,000) initial lumens or the total lighting load
exceeds one hundred sixty thousand (160,000) lumens.
         b.   Aerial lasers.
         c.   Searchlights.
         d.   Street lights.
   F.   Signage Lighting:
      1.   Lighting Requirements:
         a.   Externally lit signs shall be illuminated only with steady,
stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without
causing glare.
         b.   Light bulbs or lighting tubes used for illuminating a sign shall
not be visible from adjacent public rights-of-way or residential properties.
         c.   External illumination for signs shall conform to all provisions
of this section.
         d.   The intensity of sign lighting shall not exceed that necessary to
illuminate and make legible a sign from the adjacent travel way or closest
right-of-way; and the illumination of a sign shall not be obtrusive to the
surrounding area.
         e.   The fixtures used to illuminate signs shall not be directed
toward nearby residential properties.
         f.   Internally illuminated signs are permitted in certain
circumstances as follows:
            (1) Individual back-lit letters which are silhouetted against a
softly illuminated wall (see illustration 43-1 of this subsection);
   ILLUSTRATION 43-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1542.gif]
            (2) Individual letters with translucent faces, containing soft
lighting elements inside each letter (see illustration 43-2 of this
subsection); and
   ILLUSTRATION 43-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1544.gif]
            (3) Metal-faced box signs with cut-out letters and soft-glow
fluorescent tubes (see illustration 43-3 of this subsection).
   ILLUSTRATION 43-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1546.gif]
         g.   Fluorescent lights shall be allowed for indirect illumination
when placed in such a manner that the light tubes are not exposed to view from
the public right-of-way or sidewalk.
         h.   A sign may be illuminated during the hours of operation of the
facility being identified or advertised or until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.,
whichever is later.
         i.   Such signs shall provide an automatic timer to comply with the
intent of this section.
         j.   Illumination of off-premises signs is prohibited, except in the
case of off-premises kiosks which are subject to the provisions of this Code.
         k.   Ground-mounted sign lighting is not permitted for freestanding
signs on poles, where open space is visible from the bottom of the sign to the
ground. The Director may approve ground-mounted lighting for freestanding signs
which are constructed in such a way that no open space is visible from the
bottom of sign to the ground (such as solid base, landscaping).
         l.   All ground-mounted lights shall be placed in such a manner that
the angle of the lamp shall not be greater than forty five degrees (45°)
measured from a horizontal plane to a line projected through the center of the
lamp, and fixtures shall be fully shielded to contain and direct the light onto
the sign only. All upward-directed sign lighting is prohibited.
   G.   Definitions:
    COMMON AREAS: One or more of the following:
      1.   A parking lot.
      2.   Common entrance or public space shared by all occupants of the
domiciles.
   CURFEW: A time defined by the authority when outdoor lighting is reduced or
extinguished.
   FULLY SHIELDED: A luminary constructed and installed in such a manner that
all light emitted by the luminary, either directly from the lamp or diffusing
element, or indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of the
luminary, is projected below the horizontal plane through the luminary's lowest
light-emitting part.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1548.gif]
   GLARE: Lighting entering the eye directly from luminary or indirectly from
reflective surfaces that causes visual discomfort or reduced visibility.
   HARDSCAPE: Permanent hardscape improvements to the site, including but not
limited to, parking lots, drives, entrances, curbs, ramps, stairs, steps,
medians, walkways, and non-vegetated landscaping that is greater than ten feet
(10') in width. Materials may include concrete, asphalt, stone, gravel, etc.
   HARDSCAPE AREA: The area of all hardscape. It is used to calculate the total
site lumen limit.
   IESNA: Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
   LANDSCAPE LIGHTING: Lighting of trees, shrubs, or other plant material as
well as ponds, flagpoles, and other landscape features. Does not include
signage.
   LIGHT POLLUTION: Any adverse effect of artificial light including but not
limited to, glare, light trespass, sky-glow, energy waste, compromised safety
and security, and impacts on the nocturnal environment.
   LIGHT TRESPASS: Light that falls beyond the property it is intended to
illuminate.
   LOW VOLTAGE LANDSCAPE LIGHTING: Landscape lighting powered at less than
thirty (30) volts and limited to luminaries having a rated initial luminary
lumen output of five hundred twenty five (525) lumens or less.
   SKYGLOW: The brightening of the nighttime sky that results from scattering
and reflection of artificial light by moisture and dust particles in the
atmosphere. Skyglow is caused by light directed or reflected upwards or
sideways and reduces one's ability to view the night sky.
   TEMPORARY LIGHTING: Lighting installed and operated for periods not to
exceed sixty (60) days, completely removed and not operated again for at least
thirty (30) days.
   WATTS TO LUMENS: Incandescent lighting has traditionally been considered in
watts, a unit for measure of the power required to provide light. With the
advent of LED lighting the industry has moved toward measuring the actual light
output. Lumens are a standard unit for measuring light output. The following
table provides a conversion to help visualize a rough equivalent of lumens
versus watts. Please note as an example that one thousand six hundred (1,600)
lumens can be reached as one (1) 100-watt bulb or two (2) 60-watt bulbs. Due to
variance in incandescent bulbs four (4) 40-watt bulbs may in some cases equal
one thousand six hundred (1,600) lumens. A seventy five (75) watt equivalent
bulb may have a range of nine hundred (900) to one thousand two hundred (1,200)
lumens.
 
Watts (Energy Usage) Lumens (Light Output)
40                   450
60                   800
75                   1,100
100                  1,600
 
(Ord. 18-3, 3-27-2018; amd. Ord. 21-09, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 13
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Maintenance, Repair Permitted
10-13-2: Damaged Buildings, Structures May Be Restored
10-13-3: Expansion Of Uses Within Existing Structures
10-13-4: Extension (Enlargement) And Reconstruction; Conditions
10-13-5: Substitution Of Nonconforming Uses
10-13-6: Discontinuance Or Abandonment
10-13-7: Reclassification Of Territory
10-13-8: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-13-1: MAINTENANCE, REPAIR PERMITTED:
   A.   The owners of land and buildings shall not be deprived of any use of
property for the purpose to which it is lawfully devoted at the time of the
enactment of this development code.
   B.   Any building, structure or use of land, including, but not limited to,
the raising of livestock, which is existing and lawful at the time of the
enactment of this development code, but which does not conform to the
provisions of this development code, shall be considered a nonconforming use
and shall be allowed to continue, to the same extent and character as that
which legally existed on the effective day of the applicable regulations,
although such use does not now conform to provisions of the development code or
amendment.
   C.   Repairs may be made to a nonconforming building or structure, or to a
building or structure housing a nonconforming use, provided such repair: 1)
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the city building
regulations, when applicable; and 2) does not have the effect of increasing the
size or altering the character of the nonconforming building, structure or use.
   D.   Nonconforming uses shall run with the land. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-13-2: DAMAGED BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES MAY BE RESTORED:
   A.   A nonconforming building or structure or a building or structure
occupied by a nonconforming use which is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood or
other calamity or act of nature may be restored or reconstructed and the use
thereof resumed; provided, that such restoration or reconstruction: 1) is
commenced within a period of two (2) years from the date of occurrence of the
damage; and 2) does not have the effect of increasing the size of building or
structure or the floor space in excess of that which existed at the time the
building became nonconforming, except when approved in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-13-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Any such restored or reconstructed structure shall be constructed in
accordance with the provisions of the current city building regulations. (Ord.
97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-13-3: EXPANSION OF USES WITHIN EXISTING STRUCTURES:
A nonconforming use located within a building may be extended throughout the
same building in which said nonconforming use is located, provided no
structural change is made or proposed in the building for the purpose of
accommodating such extension. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-13-4: EXTENSION (ENLARGEMENT) AND RECONSTRUCTION; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Conditions: A nonconforming building or structure or a building housing
a nonconforming use may be extended or enlarged or reconstructed, subject to
the prior approval by the city council, after recommendation of the planning
commission and upon compliance with the following:
      1.   The proposed extension or replacement shall be located entirely on
the same lot or parcel as the present nonconforming structure and will conform
with all existing setback and location requirements.
      2.   The applicant shall submit a detailed site plan showing the location
of existing and proposed structures on the site and in the vicinity, existing
lot boundaries, roads, driveways, parking areas, utilities, and other
significant features on the site and in the immediate vicinity.
      3.   A finding made by a majority vote of the city council that:
         a.   The proposed enlargement or extension will not significantly
alter the character of the building or use or its impact upon the area.
         b.   The building or use, if extended, will not have the effect of
diminishing the value of property or the quality of the living environment of
adjacent properties.
         c.   The proposed enlargement will not significantly increase the
number of vehicles or pedestrians, or result in the establishment or increase
of a safety hazard to the area.
         d.   The proposed enlargement will not result in the establishment of
a condition incompatible with the neighborhood area and the stated objective of
the zone in which it is located.
   B.   Attachment Of Necessary Conditions: The city council may attach such
conditions to its approval as are necessary to adequately protect the property
and uses in the surrounding territory and the intent of the zone, including,
but not limited to, the providing of off street parking, accessways,
landscaping features and additional setback of structures. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-
1997)
10-13-5: SUBSTITUTION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   A nonconforming use or building may be changed to a conforming use or
building. Any nonconforming building or use which has been changed to a
conforming building or use shall not thereafter be changed back to a
nonconforming use.
   B.   A nonconforming use of a building or lot shall not be changed to
another nonconforming use whatsoever. Changes in use shall be made only to a
conforming use. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-13-6: DISCONTINUANCE OR ABANDONMENT:
A nonconforming building or structure or portion thereof, or a lot occupied by
a nonconforming use which is, or which hereafter becomes, abandoned or
discontinued for a continuous period of two (2) years or more shall not
thereafter be occupied, except by a use which conforms to the regulations of
the zone in which it is located; provided, the city council may, upon appeal,
authorize the reestablishment of a nonconforming use which has been
discontinued for a period longer than provided herein, where the weight of
evidence clearly shows that the owner had no intention to terminate the
nonconforming use and that the longer period of discontinuance was beyond the
control of the owner. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-13-7: RECLASSIFICATION OF TERRITORY:
The provisions pertaining to nonconforming uses of land and buildings shall
also apply to land and buildings which hereafter become nonconforming due to an
amendment of the ordinance codified herein or the zone map. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-
8-1997)
10-13-8: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In all zones wherein single-family dwellings are listed as a permitted use, a
single-family dwelling may be constructed on any lot or parcel of land, even
though such lot or parcel does not comply with the area or width requirements
for single-family dwellings within the zone, subject to a determination by the
zoning administrator that the lot complies with all of the following: (Ord. 97-
7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
   A.   The lot or parcel qualifies as a nonconforming lot of record (existed
as a separately described parcel on the records of the county recorder prior to
the effective date of the ordinance), and the parcel does not constitute an
illegal subdivision lot; (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
   B.   Single-family dwellings are listed as a permitted use in the present
zone; and (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 12-05, 11-27-2012)
   C.   All setbacks, height, access, building size, utility and special
provision requirements of the existing zone and all applicable supplementary
regulations can be met. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
CHAPTER 14
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 10-1, 1-26-2010, eff. 2-11-2010)
CHAPTER 15
SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS; PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-15A-1: Intent
10-15A-2: Scope Of Applicability
10-15A-3: Approved And Recorded Documents Required
10-15A-3.1: Penalty For Noncompliance
10-15A-4: Definitions
10-15A-5: Subdivision Land Use Authority
10-15A-6: Subdivision Appeals
10-15A-7: Subdivision Application Requirements
10-15A-8: Exceptions To Specific Application Requirements
10-15A-9: Pre-Application Meeting
10-15A-10: Notice To Affected Entities
10-15A-11: Review
10-15A-12: Approval
10-15A-13: Post-Approval Actions
10-15A-14: Amending A Subdivision
10-15A-15: Lot Line Adjustments
10-15A-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is as follows:
   A.   To facilitate the orderly development of the city.
   B.   To implement the city major street plan.
   C.   To facilitate the development of a safe and efficient street system.
   D.   To facilitate the orderly transfer of the ownership of building sites
in a manner consistent with state law.
   E.   To ensure the providing of adequate water, sewer, drainage, utilities,
and other services to developing areas of the city. To establish the rights,
duties and responsibilities of subdividers with respect to the development of
land within the city.
   F.   To establish the rights, duties and responsibilities of subdividers
with respect to the development of land within the City.
   G.   To promote the health and general welfare of the City of Elk Ridge's
current and future residents.
   H.   In the event of a conflict between two (2) or more provisions of this
code, or between this code and any other applicable regulation or ordinance,
the more restrictive provision shall prevail, unless otherwise explicitly
stated. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-2: SCOPE OF APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to all applications or petitions to subdivide land in the
City. The requirements of this chapter do not apply retroactively to
subdivision applications or petitions that were approved by the City prior to
the enactment of this chapter. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-3: APPROVED AND RECORDED DOCUMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   A subdivision of land is not valid unless its governing document is
approved by the Land Use Authority and properly recorded in the County
Recorder's Office.
   B.   No person shall subdivide any tract of land within the incorporated
limits of the City-nor shall any person sell, exchange, purchase or otherwise
convey a parcel of land which is part of a larger tract, if such sale or
agreement would have the effect of creating a subdivision-unless and until a
final plat, prepared in accordance with the provisions of this development
code, shall have been first approved by the Land Use Authority and recorded in
the Office of the County Recorder in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-3.1: PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
It is unlawful to transfer ownership of any parcel of land pursuant to an
invalid subdivision. The City. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, as used in this Chapter, shall have the
following meanings. Words and phrases not defined here have the meaning
expressed in 1-3-2 of Elk Ridge City Code.
   ASSOCIATION: The same as that term is defined in Utah Code Section 57-8a-
102, as amended. "Association" or "homeowner association" does not include an
association created under Chapter 8, Condominium Ownership Act.
   COMMON AREA: Property that an Association (as defined in Utah Code Section
57-8a-102):
      1.   Owns;
      2.   Maintains;
      3.   Repairs; or
      4.   Administers.
   COMMON AREA AND FACILITIES:
      1.   The land included within the condominium project, whether leasehold
or in fee simple;
      2.   The foundations, columns, girders, beams, supports, main walls,
roofs, halls, corridors, lobbies, stairs, stairways, fire escapes, entrances,
and exits of the building;
      3.   The basements, yards, gardens, parking areas, and storage spaces;
      4.   The premises for lodging of janitors or persons in charge of the
property;
      5.   Installations of central services such as power, light, gas, hot and
cold water, heating, refrigeration, air conditioning, and incinerating;
      6.   The elevators, tanks, pumps, motors, fans, compressors, ducts, and
in general all apparatus and installations existing for common use;
      7.   Such community and commercial facilities as may be provided for in
the declaration; and
      8.   All other parts of the property necessary or convenient to its
existence, maintenance, and safety, or normally in common use.
   FACILITY OWNER: In the context of water conveyance, an individual, entity,
mutual water company, or unincorporated organization:
      1.   Operating a water conveyance facility;
      2.   Owning any interest in a water conveyance facility; or
      3.   Having a property interest in real property based on the presence of
the water conveyance facility located and operating on the real property.
   IMPROVEMENT PLAN: A plan to complete permanent infrastructure on the
subdivision that is essential for the public health and safety, that is
required for human occupation, or that is required by applicable law and that
an applicant must install in accordance with public installation and inspection
specifications for public improvements and as a condition of recording a
subdivision plat.
   IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY or WARRANTY: In the context of completed improvements
means an applicant's unconditional warranty that the applicant's installed and
accepted landscaping or infrastructure improvement complies with the Town's
written standards for design, materials, and workmanship; and will not fail in
any material respect, as a result of poor workmanship or materials, within the
improvement warranty period.
   LAND USE APPLICATION: An application required by the City and submitted by a
land use applicant to obtain a land use approval; this does not mean an
application to enact, amend, or repeal a land use regulation.
   LAND USE AUTHORITY: An individual, board, or commission appointed or
employed by the City to make land use decisions. "Land Use Authority" includes
any appropriately authorized designees. The "Land Use Authority" for various
processes or applications may differ.
   LOT: A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown
on a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the county
recorder.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The process of combining two (2) or more lawful
existing lots into a fewer number of total lots than existed prior to the
boundary line adjustment; or the moving of a boundary line between two (2) or
more lots where the total number of lots after the change remains the same.
   PARCEL: See "Parcel" as defined in section
8-6-3 of the City's code.
   PLAT: An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
other graphic representation of land that a licensed professional land surveyor
makes and prepares in accordance with §10-9a-603 or §57-8-13 of Utah State Code
(as amended).
   PUBLIC LANDSCAPING IMPROVEMENT: Landscaping that an applicant is required to
install to comply with published installation and inspection specifications for
public improvements that:
      1.   Will be dedicated to and maintained by the Town; or
      2.   Are associated with and proximate to trail improvements that connect
to planned or existing public infrastructure.
   STATE ENGINEER'S INVENTORY OF CANALS: The state engineer's inventory of
water conveyance systems established in Utah Code § 73-5-7.
   SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, subdivided, or proposed to be divided
into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.
      1.   Subdivision includes:
         a.   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument, regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a
parcel or lot; and
         b.   Except as provided below, divisions of land for residential and
nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial,
agricultural, and industrial purposes.
      2.   Subdivision does not include:
         a.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
         b.   A boundary line agreement recorded with the Office of the County
Recorder between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in
accordance with §10-9a-524 of the Utah State Code (as amended) if no new parcel
is created;
         c.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record revising the
legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description encompassing
all such parcels or joining a lot to parcel;
         d.   A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with §10-9a-524
and §10-9a-608 of Utah State Code (as amended) if no new dwelling lot or
housing unit will result from the adjustment and the adjustment will not
violate any applicable land use ordinance;
         e.   A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the
deed or other instrument states in writing that the division is in anticipation
of future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels does not confer any land
use approvals, and has not been approved by the land use authority;
         f.   A parcel boundary adjustment;
         g.   A lot line adjustment;
         h.   A joining of one or more lots to a parcel;
         i.   A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
         j.   A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
         k.   Any other division of land authorized by law.
   WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY: A ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or storm water drainage
and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline or other
watercourse. "Water conveyance facility" does not mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for culinary or
industrial water, or any federal water project facility. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-
2024)
10-15A-5: SUBDIVISION LAND USE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Land Use Authority for preliminary applications under this Chapter
is the Planning Commission. For purposes of subdivision applications, the
Planning Commission shall be responsible for the following, but may delegate
any responsibility to City staff:
      1.   Rendering land use decisions related to preliminary applications.
      2.   Reviewing preliminary applications in an impartial manner and
according to the standards and deadlines described in this Chapter.
      3.   Holding a public hearing for preliminary applications (when needed).
      4.   Providing feedback to applicants on their preliminary applications.
      5.   Scheduling and holding a pre-application meeting with potential
applicants (when requested).
      6.   Keeping application forms (both preliminary and final) and related
informational material up to date and publicly accessible and distributing such
forms and materials to potential applicants. This task is delegated to City
staff by default.
      7.   Providing notice to entities and parties as required by this
Chapter. This task is delegated to City staff by default.
      8.   Ensuring that documents are properly recorded with the County after
final approval as required by this Chapter. This task is delegated to City
staff by default.
      9.   The Planning Commission's authority includes review and approval of
all preliminary applications, including but not limited to;
         a.   Subdivision layout and design;
         b.   Improvement plans;
         c.   Technical studies and reports;
         d.   Environmental impact assessments; and
         e.   Any modifications to previously approved preliminary
applications.
   B.   The Land Use Authority for final applications under this Chapter is the
Subdivision Review Committee (SRC). For purposes of subdivision applications,
the Subdivision Review Committee shall be responsible for and is granted the
power to effectuate the following:
      1.   Rendering land use decisions related to final applications.
      2.   Reviewing final applications in an impartial manner and according to
the standards and deadlines described in this Chapter.
      3.   Signing final application approvals as required by this Chapter.
      4.   The SRC's authority is limited to reviewing final application for
compliance with:
         a.   The approved preliminary application;
         b.   Technical construction standards;
         c.   Recording requirements; and
         d.   Improvement guarantees.
      5.   The SRC shall not approve final application that materially deviates
from the Planning's preliminary approval
   C.   The Subdivision Review Committee shall be organized as follows:
      1.   The SRC shall be comprised of five (5) individuals appointed by the
City Council according to the following procedure:
         a.   The Planning Commission shall recommend one member from its body
to serve on the SRC upon recommendation, the City Council shall review and
approve the appointment,
         b.   The Mayor shall recommend individuals to the City Council for
consideration to fill the remaining four (4) positions. The City Council shall
review the Mayor's recommendation and approve recommendation by a majority
vote.
         c.   The positions are subject to appointment and removal by the City
Council.
      2.   The SRC shall meet on an as-needed basis. Three (3) members of the
SRC present at a meeting constitutes a quorum with the power to act and shall
require a minimum of three (3) affirmative votes for approval.
      3.   All action taken by the SRC shall occur in a public meeting; and
      4.   The SRC can pick their chair annually from a member of the SRC.
   D.   As subdivision application decisions are administrative, not
legislative, the Planning Commission and SRC are respectively authorized to
make land use decisions as described by this Chapter without City Council
approval. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-6: SUBDIVISION APPEALS:
Appeals of land use decisions under this chapter (e.g., approval or denial of
an application) shall be made according to the procedure outlined in title 2
chapter 2 of the Elk Ridge City Code. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-7: SUBDIVISION APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The City shall not approve, nor shall a party record, any plat or other
creating instrument for a new subdivision unless the party has properly applied
under this Chapter and received both a preliminary approval from the Planning
Commission and a final approval from the Subdivision Review Committee.
   B.   To be considered complete, a preliminary subdivision application must
include at least the following elements:
      1.   An approved land use application that describes how the property
will be used after it is subdivided.
         a.   If the intended use is permitted by right under City ordinances,
the land use application must include citations to the specific ordinance(s)
that the applicant believes authorizes the intended use.
         b.   If the intended use requires a conditional use permit or is
otherwise conditioned on City approval, the land use application must include
an approved, City-issued permit authorizing the intended use. Should an
applicant seek a use permit concurrently with a related subdivision
application, the subdivision application shall be considered incomplete until
the use permit is issued.
         c.   If the intended use is prohibited under City ordinances and
requires a variance, the land use application must include an approved, City-
issued variance authorizing the intended use. Should an applicant seek a
variance concurrently with a related subdivision application, the subdivision
application shall be considered incomplete until the variance is issued.
      2.   A preliminary plat, unless exempt under section
10-15A-8. The preliminary plat must be drawn to scale, in detail, and in
accordance with generally accepted surveying standards and the acceptable
filing standards of the County Recorder's Office. The preliminary plat must
include:
         a.   The proposed subdivision name, which must be distinct from any
subdivision name on a plat recorded in the County Recorder's office.
         b.   The boundaries, course, and dimensions of all proposed parcels.
All parcels on the plat must comply with the lot size requirements of chapter
10-15C.
         c.   The lot or unit reference; block or building reference; street or
site address; street name or coordinate address; acreage or square footage for
all parcels, units, or lots; and length and width of the blocks and lots
intended for sale.
         d.   Every existing right-of-way and recorded easement located within
the plat for underground, water, and utility facilities.
         e.   Any known and unrecorded water conveyance facility located,
entirely or partially, within the plat.
         f.   Whether any parcel is intended to be used as a street or for any
other public use.
         g.   Whether any parcel is reserved or proposed for dedication for a
public purpose.
         h.   If the application is for a condominium plat, the requirements
found in Utah Code §57-8-13, as amended.
      3.   Studies And Reports:
         a.   A traffic study completed by a qualified Surveyor if one is
required by an applicable UDOT Access Management Plan.
            (1)   Such plans are typically required when a plat abuts a road
maintained by UDOT. It is the responsibility of the subdivider to know whether
their application will require such a plan.
         b.   A water report from a qualified expert, regarding flood risks and
stormwater needs.
         c.   A soils report from a qualified soils engineer, identifying the
types of soils within the proposed subdivision area and identifying any soils
constraints on the proposed subdivision.
         d.   Any other study or report reasonably necessary to assess the
impact of the proposed subdivision on the City or to assess compliance with
City ordinances - particularly those parcels that the City has zoned as "CE-
2 Critical Environmental" and/or "HR-1 Hillside Residential".
      4.   An improvement plan, created in accordance with applicable portions
of chapters 10-15B and 10-15C of this title, for all public improvements
proposed by the applicant or required by City ordinances.
         a.   In addition to the requirements in chapters 10-15B and 10-15C,
the improvement plan must contain an engineer's estimate of the cost of
completing the required improvements.
      5.   Certifications, Including:
         a.   An affidavit from the applicant certifying that the submitted
information is true and accurate.
         b.   The signature of each owner of record of land described on the
preliminary plat, signifying their consent to the preliminary subdivision
application and their intent to dedicate portions of the preliminary plat to
the public as described in the application.
         c.   Certification that the surveyor who prepared the plat:
            (1)   Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code 58-22; and
            (2)   Either:
               (A)   Has completed a survey of the property described on the
plat in accordance with state requirements and has verified all measurements;
or
               (B)   Has referenced a record of survey map of the existing
property boundaries shown on the plat and verified the locations of the
boundaries; and
            (3)   Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
      6.   Fees: Payment of any preliminary application processing fees
required by the City (see the City's Fee Schedule, 10-4-4) and the cost of any
legal or engineering review of the application that the City deems necessary.
      7.   Copies: A paper copy of all plans with 11x17 as a minimum size and
an electronic copy of all plans in PDF format.
   C.   To be considered complete, a final subdivision application must include
the following:
      1.   The Planning Commission's approval of the applicant's preliminary
application, given within the last three hundred sixty five (365) calendar
days.
      2.   The approved land use application that was accepted during the
preliminary application review process.
      3.   A final plat, unless exempt under Section
10-15A-8. The final plat should be the version of the preliminary plat approved
by the Planning Commission during the preliminary application review process,
plus any other immaterial changes (e.g., formatting) necessary to comply with
the recording requirements of the County Recorder's Office.
      4.   A completion assurance for all public improvements required by the
improvement plan approved during the preliminary application review, or a
statement that such improvements will be completed before development occurs on
the proposed subdivision and before the applicant records the plat, as required
by Chapter 10-15B of this Title.
      5.   Certifications, including:
         a.   A Title Report or Title Insurance Policy for the land to be
subdivided verifying property ownership.
         b.   A Tax Clearance Certificate from the state indicating that all
taxes, interest, and penalties owing on the land have been paid.
         c.   An affidavit from the applicant certifying that the submitted
information is true and accurate.
         d.   The signature of each owner of record of land described on the
plat, signifying their consent to the final subdivision application and their
dedication and approval of the final plat.
         e.   Certification that the surveyor who prepared the plat:
            (1)   Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code 58-22; and
            (2)   Either:
               (A)   Has completed a survey of the property described on the
plat in accordance with state requirements and has verified all measurements;
or
               (B)   Has referenced a record of survey map of the existing
property boundaries shown on the plat and verified the locations of the
boundaries; and
            (3)   Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
      6.   Binding dedication documents, including:
         a.   As applicable, formal, irrevocable offers for dedication to the
public of streets, City uses, utilities, parks, easements, and other spaces.
         b.   If the plat is to be part of a community association, signed and
binding documents conveying to the association all common areas.
      7.   Copies, including:
         a.   One electronic copy of the final plat in AutoCAD format (DWG or
DXF), Geodatabase format (GDB), or Shapefile format (SHP), with a projection
assigned to the file(s) and with the proper metadata that describes what
coordinate system/projection the data is assigned to; and
         b.   A PDF document of the final plat and all other plans and
supporting documents required by this Chapter.
         c.   A printed copy of the final plat on mylar for recording.
      8.   Payment of any final application processing fees required by the
City (see the City's Fee Schedule, 10-4-4).
   D.   The Planning Commission (or City staff, as delegated) shall produce,
maintain, and make available to the public a list of the specific items that
comprise complete preliminary and final applications, in accordance with this
chapter, and a breakdown of any fees due upon submission or approval of the
applications.
   E.   The Land Use Authority SRC may require, and the applicant shall
provide, additional information beyond the requirements of this section or
those published by the City relating to an applicant's plans to ensure
compliance with City ordinances and approved standards and specifications for
construction of public improvements and to protect the health and safety of
City residents.
   F.   Notwithstanding subsection E, the Land Use Authority may waive specific
application requirements on a case-by-case basis and consider an application
"complete", whether during a pre-application meeting, during the application
review period, or both.
   G.   Relationship Between Preliminary And Final Approvals:
      1.   A final application may not be submitted until the Planning
Commission has approved the preliminary application;
      2.   The final application must substantially conform to the preliminary
application as approved by the Planning Commission;
      3.   Any material changes to the preliminary and final applications must
be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission before the SRC may consider
the final application; and
      4.   The Planning Commission's preliminary approval expires 365 days
after the issuance of a complete final application has not been submitted to
the SRC.
   H.   Availability Of Adequate Public Facilities:
      1.   Approval of a Preliminary Plat or Site Plan shall not be granted
until the applicant provides sufficient information, to the satisfaction of the
SRC, to demonstrate that adequate public facilities exist in the areas affected
by the proposed development to accommodate the development.
      2.   The public facilities to which this requirement applies include:
         a.   Culinary Water System: Including quantity, quality, treatment,
storage capacity, transmission capacity, and distribution capacity;
         b.   Sanitary Sewer System: Including treatment, overall capacity,
outfall lines, laterals, and collector lines;
         c.   Electric Power System: Including generation, transformation,
transmission, and distribution capabilities;
         d.   Storm Water System; Including drainage and flood control
facilities;
         e.   Streets And Roads: Including arterial and collector roads,
sidewalks, curb and gutter, and related transportation facilities; and
         f.   Recreational Facilities: Including parks, playgrounds, trails,
and other recreational amenities.
      3.   The adequacy of public facilities shall be determined in accordance
with:
         a.   The City's Design and Development Standards;
         b.   The City's various master plans;
         c.   The City's General Plan; and
         d.   The discretion of the City's Engineer and SRC. (Ord. 24-04, 12-
10-2024)
10-15A-8: EXCEPTIONS TO SPECIFIC APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Agricultural Land:
      1.    Applications to subdivide agricultural land are exempt from the
preliminary and final plat requirements (but not the other application
requirements) of Section
10-15A-7 if the resulting parcels:
         a.   Qualify as land in agricultural use under Utah Code §59-2-502;
         b.   Meet the minimum size requirement of applicable City land use
ordinances; and
         c.   Are not used and will not be used for any nonagricultural
purpose.
      2.   For subdivision applications for which this exception applies, an
applicant may submit to the City, in place of a plat, a record of survey map
that illustrates the boundaries of the parcels.
      3.   If the City approves a subdivision application based on a record of
survey map, the applicant shall record the map, signed by the City, with the
County Recorder's Office. This shall be done in the same manner as is done for
a plat under Section
10-15A-13.
      4.   If a parcel resulting from a subdivision under this exception ever
ceases to be used for agriculture, the subdivision shall become invalid. The
City may, in its discretion, impose the penalty in section
10-15A-3.1 and/or require a subdivision amendment before issuing a building
permit.
   B.   Minor Subdivisions:
      1.   Applications to subdivide land are exempt from the preliminary and
final plat requirements (but not the other application requirements) of Section
10-15A-7 if the subdivision:
         a.   Results in no more than three (3) lots;
         b.   Is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed street (as
shown in the Elk Ridge General Plan), City easement, or any other land required
for public purposes;
         c.   Has been approved by the culinary water authority and the
sanitary sewer authority; and
         d.   Is located in a zoned area.
      2.   For subdivision applications for which this exception applies, an
applicant may submit to the City, in place of a plat, both:
         a.   A record of survey map that illustrates the boundaries of the
parcels; and
         b.   A legal metes and bounds description that describes the parcels
illustrated by the survey map.
      3.   If the City approves a subdivision application based on a record of
survey map and metes and bounds description, the applicant shall record the map
and description, signed by the City, with the County Recorder's Office. This
shall be done in the same manner as is done for a plat under section
10-15A-13, except that the City shall also provide the notice required in Utah
Code §10-9a-605(1).
   C.   Development Agreements:
      1.   The City Council is hereby authorized to enter into development
agreements at the request of subdividers or developers in order to more fully
set forth the terms and conditions of approval of a specific subdivision
project, the extent of the understandings between the City and the subdivider
regarding the scope of any shared responsibility in the construction of
improvements, and similar matters relating to the approval of a specific
subdivision project.
      2.   Subdivisions platted in a valid development agreement are exempt
from the application requirements (section
10-15A-7) and review and approval requirements (sections
10-15A-11 and
10-15A-12) of this Chapter.
      3.   Clauses in a valid development agreement with the City superseded
all conflicting requirements in this title, except where a clause in the
development agreement poses a substantial danger to the health and safety of
City residents (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-9: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING:
   A.   A party intending to submit a subdivision application under this
Chapter may request a preapplication meeting with the Planning Commission or
other City staff for the purpose of reviewing any element of the party's
proposed subdivision application (preliminary or final). The proposed
application need not be complete for purposes of this meeting and may, if the
party desires, be limited to a concept plan.
      1.   If a party requests a pre-application meeting, the City shall
schedule the meeting within fifteen (15) business days after the request. The
meeting shall be scheduled at the earliest convenient opportunity, and, at the
option of the party requesting the meeting, shall occur within twenty (20)
business days after scheduling.
      2.   The Planning Commission or delegated City staff shall conduct the
meeting, provide feedback on materials as requested by the party, and shall
provide or have available on the City website the following at the time of the
meeting:
         a.   Copies of applicable land use regulations;
         b.   A complete list of standards required for the project; and
         c.   Relevant application checklists. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-10: NOTICE TO AFFECTED ENTITIES:
   A.   Within fifteen (15) calendar days after receiving a complete
subdivision application under this Chapter, City staff shall provide written
notice of the proposed subdivision to the facility owner of any known water
conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within one hundred feet
(100') of the subdivision plat.
      1.   To determine whether any water conveyance facility is located within
one hundred feet (100') of a proposed subdivision, City staff shall review
information:
         a.   From the facility owner under Utah Code §10-9a-211, using
mapping-grade global positioning satellite units or digitized data from the
most recent aerial photo available to the facility owner;
         b.   From the state engineer's inventory of canal; or
         c.   From a licensed surveyor who has consulted with a representative
of an existing water conveyance facility that services an area near the land
the application concerns.
   B.   To give water conveyance facilities time to provide feedback on
subdivision applications, the Land Use Authority shall not approve a
preliminary (or related final) subdivision application under this chapter
sooner than twenty (20) calendar days after the applicant submits a complete
application. This waiting period does not apply to revised applications the
applicant may submit during the application review process.
      1.   A water conveyance facility owner's failure to provide comments to
the Land Use Authority about a subdivision application does not affect or
impair the Land Use Authority's authority to approve the subdivision
application.
   C.   Upon receiving comments from any affected entity, City and Staff shall:
      1.   Forward such comments to both the applicant and the Land Use
Authority within three (3) business days;;
      2.   Include a summary of all received comments in the staff report for
the application; and
      3.   Document how each comment was addressed in the final application.
(Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-11: REVIEW:
   A.   The Land Use Authority shall review all subdivision applications in
accordance with the requirements of this section before approving or denying
those applications.
   B.   For both preliminary and final applications, the review process begins
when an applicant submits a complete application.
      1.   The Land Use Authority shall not review an incomplete subdivision
application, except to determine whether the application is complete.
      2.   If the Land Use Authority determines that an application is
incomplete, it shall notify the applicant of the incompleteness, highlighting
any insufficiencies and explaining that the application will not be reviewed
until it is complete.
   C.   For both preliminary and final applications, after the applicant
submits a complete application, the Land Use Authority shall review and provide
feedback to the applicant in a series of "review cycles."
      1.   A review cycle consists of the following phases:
         a.   Phase Number 1: The applicant submits a complete application (or,
if after the first cycle, submits a revised version of the complete
application).
         b.   Phase Number 2: The Land Use Authority reviews the application in
detail and assesses whether the application conforms to local ordinances.
         c.   Phase Number 3: The Land Use Authority responds to the applicant,
citing any missing requirements or areas of noncompliance and providing a
detailed list of necessary revisions to the applicant. For any required
modification or addition to the application or request for more information,
the Land Use Authority shall be specific and include citations to ordinances,
standards, or specifications that require the modification or addition and
shall provide the applicant with an index of all requested modifications or
additions.
         d.   Phase Number 4: The applicant revises the application, addressing
each comment or requirement the Land Use Authority made. The applicant must
submit both revised plans and a written explanation in response to the City's
review comments, identifying and explaining the sixteen (16) applicant's
revisions and reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. This written
explanation must be comprehensive and specific, including citations to
applicable standards and ordinances and an index of requested revisions or
additions for each required correction. If the applicant fails to respond to a
comment made by the Land Use Authority in its review, the review cycle is not
complete and will remain open until the applicant addresses all comments.
 
Table 10-15A-11 - Review Cycles, Hearings, and Timelines by Subdivision Use
Type
Use Type       Approval Stage Max Review Phases Max Public City Turnaround
                                                Hearings   Deadline**
1-2 Family     Preliminary    4                 1          15 Business Days
Residential*   Final          2                 0          15 Business Days
All Other Uses Preliminar y   6                 2          30 Business Days
               Final          1                 0          30 Business Days
*Includes single-family homes, duplexes, and townhomes.
**Describes the total time (per review cycle) the City may take to complete
both Phase #2 and Phase #3.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2555.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2557.png]
 
   D.   A Land Use Authority (and other City representatives or agents) shall
adhere to the maximum number of review cycles and the review deadlines
described in Table 10-15A-11, except as described below. If no further
revisions are needed, the Land Use Authority may end the review process early
and approve or deny the preliminary or final application.
      1.   This provision notwithstanding, for any subdivision application that
affects property within an identified geological hazard area, the City is
exempt from limits on the number of permitted review cycles and the City's
deadlines for reviewing and responding (Phases Number 2 and Number 3).
      2.   If the applicant makes a material change to a preliminary or final
application not requested by the City at any point in the review process, the
Land Use Authority may restart the review process, but only with respect to the
portion of the application that the material change substantively affects.
      3.   For both preliminary applications, if an applicant takes longer than
forty (40) business days to submit a revised subdivision improvement plan
responding to the City's requests for modifications and additions (in Phases
Number 1 and Number 4), the City shall have an additional twenty (20) business
days to review and respond to the revised application (Phases Number 2 and
Number 3 of the next review cycle or issuing an approval decision).
      4.   For both preliminary and final applications, if an applicant takes
longer than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days to submit a revised
application and respond to the City's requests for modifications and additions
(Phases Number 1 and Number 4), the application shall, at the option of the
Land Use Authority, expire. If an application expires, the applicant must
restart the subdivision application process.
      5.   If the applicant has not submitted a final application within three
hundred sixty five (365) calendar days after the Land Use Authority notifies
the applicant that it has approved the related preliminary application, the
related preliminary approval shall expire. In this case, the applicant shall
not submit a final application until the Land Use Authority has issued a new
preliminary application approval.
   E.   When a preliminary or final application's review period ends, the Land
Use Authority shall approve or deny the respective preliminary or final
application within twenty (20) business days.
      1.   If the Land Use Authority has not approved or denied the application
within twenty (20) business days after the allotted review cycles are complete,
the applicant may request a decision. After such a request, the City shall,
within ten (10) business days:
         a.   For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans,
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah Code §10-9a-508(5)(d) to
review and approve or deny the revised set of plans; or
         b.   For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review,
advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of
the right to appeal the determination to the designated Appeal Authority.
   F.   After the Land Use Authority provides comments in the last allotted
review cycle for a final application, the City shall not require further
modifications or corrections to the application unless those modifications or
corrections are necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce
state or federal law or unless the review cycle reset due to the applicant
making a material change that the Land Use Authority did not request.
      1.   With the exception of modifications or corrections that are needed
to protect public health and safety, that are needed to enforce state or
federal law, or that arise from the review cycle being reset, the City waives
noncompliant subdivision-related requirements that the Land Use Authority does
not identify during the review process.
      2.   The applicant shall make reasonable changes, unless prohibited
otherwise by a contract or deed, to the subdivision application to accommodate
the water conveyance facility to the extent required by Utah Code §73-1-15.5.
   G.   The Land Use Authority may conduct one or more public hearings (up to
the number described in
Table 10-15A-11) during the review period for a preliminary subdivision
application.
      1.   The purpose of these public hearings is to ask questions of the
applicant and receive commentary on the technical aspects of the application
from affected entities, interested parties, and the public.
      2.   If the Land Use Authority elects to hold a public hearing, the
hearing must occur before the end of the Land Use Authority's preliminary
review period (end of Phase Number 3 of the last preliminary review cycle).
Scheduling issues shall not extend the review and approval deadlines in this
Chapter.
      3.   The Land Use Authority shall not hold a public hearing during the
review period for a final subdivision application.
   H.   Other chapters of this title notwithstanding, the Land Use Authority
shall approve or deny preliminary and final applications under this chapter
after reviewing the complete applications as described in this section. (Ord.
24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-12: APPROVAL:
   A.   The respective Land Use Authorities shall approve any complete
preliminary and final applications made under this Chapter that comply with
applicable City ordinances and Utah State Code.
   B.   The respective Land Use Authorities shall issue all approvals in
writing. After approval, a representative of the SRC shall certify the approved
final plat, either by signing the plat directly or by attaching a signed
certification to the plat. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-13: POST-APPROVAL ACTIONS:
   A.   The applicant shall record the approved final plat with the County
Recorder's Office within three hundred sixty five (365) calendar days after the
Land Use Authority approves the final application, provided that the applicant
has completed any improvements or posted any performance guarantee required by
City ordinances or described in the approved improvement plan. The applicant
shall not record the approved final plat until such improvements are completed
or guaranteed in compliance with City ordinances and the approved improvement
plan.
      1.   An approved final plat not properly recorded within the timeline
specified in this provision is void, unless the SRC approves an extension.
   B.   City staff shall submit to the Utah Geospatial Resource Center (so the
subdivision can be included in the 911 database), within thirty (30) calendar
days after the final application is approved, either:
      1.   An electronic copy of the approved final plat; or
      2.   Preliminary geospatial data that depict any new streets and situs
addresses proposed for construction within the bounds of the approved final
plat. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-14: AMENDING A SUBDIVISION:
   A.   The City Council may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a subdivision
by enacting an ordinance to that effect that describes the subdivision, or the
portion being vacated and recording that ordinance in the County Recorder's
Office.
   B.   A property owner or agent of a property owner may correct minor
typographical or clerical errors in a document of record by filing with the
County an affidavit or other appropriate instrument. This provision does not
apply to changing the name of a subdivision, which requires a material
amendment described in the following provisions.
   C.   A fee owner of land in a platted subdivision may request a material
subdivision amendment by filing a written petition with the Planning
Commission. This petition must meet all the requirements for a preliminary
subdivision application specified in section
10-15A-7, with the following changes:
      1.   The preliminary plat (or the record of survey map, if applicable)
should:
         a.   Depict only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be
amended;
         b.   Include a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the
original plat;
         c.   Describe the differences between the amended plat and the
original plat;
         d.   Include references to the original plat; and
         e.   Meet all the other plat requirements specified in section
10-15A-7.
      2.   The petition must additionally include the name and address of each
property owner affected by the petition and the signature of each of those
property owners who consents to the petition.
      3.   The petitioner must include with the petition envelopes addresses to
each property in the subdivision.
   D.   Upon receipt of an amendment petition, the Planning Commission (or City
staff, as delegated) shall provide notice of the petition to:
      1.   Each utility provider that services a parcel of the subdivision. The
City shall not approve an amendment petition until at least ten (10) calendar
days after noticing these utility providers. The City may notify the utility
providers in any effective manner (email, mail, etc.).
      2.   Each property owner in the subdivision. The City shall notify these
property owners by mail.
   E.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing before approving an
amendment petition and within forty five (45) calendar days after the day on
which the petition is submitted if:
      1.   A property owner objects in writing to the amendment within ten (10)
days of the City notifying the property owner by mail; or
      2.   Not every property owner in the subdivision has signed the revised
plat.
   F.   Notwithstanding section
10-15A-14, the Planning Commission need not hold a public hearing if notice has
been given to adjoining property owners in accordance with any applicable local
ordinance and the petition seeks to:
      1.   Join two (2) or more of the petitioner's contiguous lots;
      2.   Subdivide one or more of the petitioner's lots;
      3.   Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an
adjoining parcel if the fee owners of each of the adjoining properties join in
the petition, regardless of whether the properties are located in the same
subdivision;
      4.   On a lot owned by the petitioner, adjust an internal lot restriction
imposed by the local political subdivision; or
      5.   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries
or other attributes of lots twenty one (21) within the subdivision that are not
owned by the petitioner or designated as a common area.
   G.   If the Planning Commission approves the amendment petition, the
Planning Commission shall sign the amended plat in the manner described in
section
10-15A-12, and the petitioner shall record the plat, subject to the completion
or guarantee of any improvements, as described in section
10-15A-13. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15A-15: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   The fee owners of two (2) parcels may petition to adjust the lot line
separating the parcels without a subdivision amendment. Such a petition shall
include:
      1.   A record of survey map and a metes and bounds description showing
the adjustment.
      2.   An explanation of the reason for the adjustment.
      3.   Signatures from all the parcel owners involved in the adjustment.
      4.   Any other information the Planning Commission requests.
   B.   If the adjustment will not result in a violation of a land use
ordinance or an adverse development condition, the Planning Commission shall
approve the petition.
   C.   If the adjustment is approved, the Planning Commission shall sign the
record of survey map and accompanying metes and bounds description, and the
petitioner shall record the document in the County Recorder's Office. (Ord. 24-
04, 12-10-2024)
ARTICLE B. DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS; PLANS AND PLATS
SECTION:
10-15B-1: Required Improvements
10-15B-2: Responsible Party; Exceptions
10-15B-3: Completion Of Improvements
10-15B-4: Improvements Guarantees, Completion Assurances And Warranties
10-15B-1: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
Inclusion In Improvement Plan: The placement, size and type of all required
improvements shall be shown in the improvement plan accompanying a preliminary
subdivision application. Such improvement plan shall include engineering
drawings relating to the improvements.
Required Improvements: The following improvements are required for all
subdivisions and development in the City, unless specifically waived by
ordinance or the Land Use Authority. All improvements shall meet minimum City
standards for design and quality of materials and shall be installed in
accordance with minimum City standards and specifications and current APWA
standard plans and specifications, as directed by the City.
   A.   Streets And Roads:
      1.   Improvements: All streets shown on the final plat for dedication to
the City and any existing street, whether or not shown on the final plat, which
is contiguous and provides access to any lot in a subdivision shall be improved
in conformance with the applicable cross section and construction standards as
set forth in the City development and construction standards.
      2.   Asphalt Layer Thickness: All streets shall be installed with a two
and one-half inch (2.5") three and on half inch (3.5") or as stated in city
standards surface layer of asphalt at the time of initial development
construction. At such a time that ninety percent (90%) or more of the lots have
been permitted for site construction, or not more than two (2) years from the
date of initial performance guarantee, the developer shall be responsible for
any and all street repairs necessary and the installation of a one inch (1")
slurry seal on all parts of all roads in and associated with the subdivision.
At no time shall a street in a subdivision be completed with a street surface
asphalt layer being thinner than three and one-half inches (3.5") total
thickness unless otherwise specified in code.
      3.   Street Grade: No major collector/arterial street shall have a grade
of more than eight percent (8%) and no local street shall have a grade of more
than ten percent (10%), except that the Planning Commission may approve up to
an additional two percent (2%) grade for short stretches of roadway where, in
its opinion, the eight percent (8%), ten percent (10%) standards would result
in undesirable extra earthwork or circuitous routes and that the proposed steep
grade section will not result in the establishment of a hazardous condition. It
is the responsibility of the developer to present evidence that the additional
allowance in grade is desirable. The City Engineer shall provide
recommendations regarding hazardous conditions and any other concerns on the
proposed steep grade sections.
      4.   Prior to the start of any subdivision improvements, the developer
shall:
         a.   Submit a traffic control plan for review and approval by the City
Engineer;
         b.   Hold a pre-construction meeting with City Staff and all
contractors;
         c.   Provide written notification to all property owners within three
hundred feet (300') of the subdivision boundaries; and
         d.   Install all required construction entrance improvements as
specified in subsection 10-15C-2O.
   B.   Sidewalks And Trails:
      1.   Sidewalks; Compliance: Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides
of streets, at the developer's expense, and in compliance with the detailed
performance standards of the "City of Elk Ridge Construction Specifications and
Standards". Sidewalks are "required improvements", subject to the guarantee
provisions of chapter 16 of this title.
         a.   Additionally, sidewalks, trails and gutters must be installed
along the back of lots that back onto a street where such improvements are
required.
      2.   Sidewalks; Infill Areas/Agricultural Zones: Sidewalks may not be
required in infill areas not required to have curb and gutter. They are also
not required in agricultural zones. The Planning Commission can require
sidewalk in infill or agricultural zones if deemed appropriate. Such
determination may be made if lot sizes, traffic patterns, wider roads or other
related design factors support installation of sidewalks. If the Planning
Commission does not require sidewalks, the Planning Commission may specify the
completion of other public facilities in lieu of sidewalks.
      3.   Sidewalks; Placement: Notwithstanding other provisions of this
title, the city council may determine in a development agreement that sidewalks
will not be required on one or both sides of the street. Such determination may
be made if lot sizes, traffic patterns, wider roads or other related design
factors support a more flexible approach.
      4.   Improved Trails: Developments shall provide any planned trails for
bicycle/pedestrian use which connect the development to other public facilities
such as parks or the major existing and planned trails established in the
City's General Plan or other officially adopted trail map of the City. The
trail requirement also is extended to cul-de-sacs that require a trail easement
connecting neighborhoods. Trails are required improvements, subject to the
guarantee provisions of this title.
      5.   Trail Requirements:
         a.   Trail placement must conform to the city's adopted Trails Map,
which is a part of the City's General Plan. Any proposed trail placement that
deviates from the Trails Map will require an amendment to the map. As part of
the General Plan, any such amendment must undergo review and approval by the
Planning Commission, followed by City Council approval.
         b.   Trail surfaces must conform to the surfacing indicated on the
adopted City Trails map. Any proposed changes to the surfacing type will be
considered a modification to the General Plan and must be submitted for review
and approval by the Planning Commission, followed by the City Council approval.
         c.   All trail surface must be six inch (6") deep concrete or prepared
base and ten feet (10') wide.
   C.   Culinary Water System:
      1.   The subdivider shall be responsible for installing all off site and
on-site water mains. All on site mains shall be installed in such a way that
each lot shall be served therefrom. All water mains shall extend to the
boundaries of the subdivision.
      2.   All water mains shall be sufficient in size to provide a volume of
flow and level of pressure adequate for culinary use (in accordance with state
and city standards) and fire protection purposes (in accordance with the city
fire code); provided, that no water main shall be less than eight inches (8")
in diameter.
      3.   Water service laterals shall be installed from the main line to each
adjacent lot. The service lateral shall consist of: a) the corporation stop
adjacent to the main line; b) the lateral pipe running from the main to the
adjacent lot; and c) the stop and waste valve, meter box and meter setter
located within the boundary of the lot.
      4.   All mains and laterals shall be constructed prior to the
installation of road base and hard surfacing of the road and curb and gutter,
where such is required.
      5.   The subdivision water system shall be connected to a water supply
facility (source, reservoir and delivery system) which is capable of delivering
adequate flows for both culinary and fire purposes.
      6.   The type and quality of materials, location and placement of pipes
and other particulars relating to design and construction of the system shall
be in accordance with the city development and construction standards.
   D.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   All subdivisions shall have fire hydrants installed at locations
approved by the fire chief and city engineer.
      2.   Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with city standards,
as determined by the city engineer.
   E.   Sewage:
      1.   Both off site and on-site sewer mains of not less than eight inches
(8") in diameter shall be installed in such a way that each lot in the
subdivision will be connected thereto.
      2.   Separate sewer service laterals shall be installed from the main to
each adjacent lot.
      3.   All new development must connect to the city sanitary sewer
collection system at the time of construction.
      4.   The quality of materials, location and placement of pipes and other
particulars relating to design and construction of the system shall be in
accordance with the city development and construction standards.
   F.   Permanent Survey Markers: Permanent survey monuments shall be installed
in each subdivision. The location of the monuments shall be as required by the
city engineer and shall be shown on the final plat. Also, all corners of the
subdivision and all lot corners in the subdivision shall be marked.
   G.   Electric, Telephone And Natural Gas: Electric power, telephone and
natural gas shall be provided to each lot. All lines and appurtenant facilities
shall be located a minimum of thirty-six inches (36") underground, except when
approved by the Planning Commission upon a finding that compliance with the
standard set forth herein is not practically feasible.
   H.   Street Signs: Street signs shall be installed at all locations
indicated on the preliminary plan. After final all required signs shall conform
to city standards and be provided and installed by the developer at the expense
of the developer.
   I.   Environmental Hazards: Adverse environmental conditions must be
eliminated or accommodated as follows:
      1.   Soils:
         a.   The placement of streets, buildings and the designation of
building sites on areas of unstable soils shall be prohibited.
         b.   Soils with a significant erosion hazard shall be protected.
Revegetation or other erosion control measures may be imposed as a condition of
subdivision approval.
      2.   Surface Water Disposal:
         a.   To the maximum extent possible, surface water produced from the
subdivision development shall be properly disposed of within the limits of the
subdivision. If not possible within the limits of the development, alternative
disposal methods off site may be considered as approved by the city engineer.
         b.   Pipes, manholes, sumps and other facilities for the collection,
transport and disposal of surface water shall be installed where required by
the city. The location, size and design of said facilities and any easements
relating thereto, shall be in accordance with the city stormwater disposal
plans and standards or as directed by the city engineer.
         c.   The location of all facilities and easements shall be shown on
the plans, plats and engineering drawings, as applicable.
         d.   All plans for subdivision or development shall identify the
location of all existing natural drainage channels and final plats of
subdivision, and similar land development projects shall provide a drainage
easement which includes the natural channel.
         e.   No structure shall be located less than thirty feet (30') from
the boundary of any designated drainage channel and the layout of any
subdivision or similar development project which contains a natural drainage
channel shall be so arranged to ensure that all required building setbacks can
be maintained.
         f.   Facilities for stormwater runoff shall be required to be
constructed on development sites and according to the following design
standards:
            (1)   Such facilities shall be the first improvement of facilities
on the property. Phasing of drainage facilities may be allowed as approved by
the city engineer.
            (2)   All storm drain catch basins, pipes and manholes shall be
designed to collect and convey stormwater runoff from the twenty five (25)
year, twenty four (24) hour storm.
            (3)   In the event that a documented downstream discharge or
storage with available capacity is present, detention basins shall be designed
to detain runoff from the twenty five (25) year, twenty four (24) hour storm
with a maximum discharge rate equal to the predevelopment discharge rate. In
addition, the stormwater plan shall make provisions for the accommodation of
flows during a one hundred (100) year storm event in a manner that will
minimize damage to personal property.
            (4)   Retention facilities such as sumps and retention ponds shall
be designed to retain runoff from the one hundred (100) year, twenty four (24)
hour storm.
            (5)   The design storm criteria shall be as follows:
TABLE 1 - ELK RIDGE CITY 25- AND 100-YEAR STORM DEPTH AND INTENSITY
Duration 25-year Depth  25-year Intensity  100-year Depth  100-year Intensity
         (Inches)       (Inches/Hour)      (Inches)        (Inches/Hour)
TABLE 1 - ELK RIDGE CITY 25- AND 100-YEAR STORM DEPTH AND INTENSITY
Duration   25-year Depth  25-year Intensity  100-year Depth  100-year Intensity
           (Inches)       (Inches/Hour)      (Inches)        (Inches/Hour)
5 minutes  0.372          4.46               0.540           6.48
10 minutes 0.566          3.40               0.822           4.93
15 minutes 0.701          2.80               1.02            4.08
30 minutes 0.944          1.89               1.37            2.74
60 minutes 1.17           1.17               1.70            1.70
2 hours    1.34           0.669              1.91            0.953
3 hours    1.43           0.475              1.98            0.658
6 hours    1.63           0.273              2.15            0.358
12 hours   2.01           0.167              2.51            0.209
24 hours   2.42           0.101              2.94            0.123
 
         g.   Multipurpose stormwater storage facilities or ponds which
incorporate recreational facilities such as sport fields, playgrounds and
gathering areas are encouraged. Such facilities must incorporate underground
rock galleries or connected sumps which disperse nuisance waters under the
surface of the pond or recreation facility. The pond must also be tiered in
such a way that water from a 25-year storm event is contained in a lower tier.
Only major storms larger than a 25-year event should reach the upper tier where
recreational facilities may be located. All storage facilities whether they
incorporate recreational facilities or not must be designed to the following
criteria:
            (1)   Maximum side slope on the inside of a pond to be three
horizontal to one vertical (3:1) for ponds up to two feet (2') deep, four
horizontal to one vertical (4:1) for ponds three (3') to four feet (4') deep
and five horizontal to one vertical (5:1) for ponds over four feet (4') deep.
            (2)   Ponds over two feet (2') deep must be approved by the City
Engineer. Safety measures such as fencing may be required as well as additional
landscaping.
            (3)   Maximum slope on the outside of a pond to be two horizontal
to one vertical (2:1).
            (4)   The City Engineer shall determine the required access for
maintenance for the ponds.
            (5)   A landscape plan shall be submitted to the city for review
and approval. All stormwater facilities are to be landscaped appropriate to the
design criteria and surrounding properties.
            (6)   In the case of detention ponds, an emergency overflow
spillway shall be incorporated into the design assuming the outlet is
inoperable and the inflow exceeds the outlet capacity.
            (7)   Percolation tests used for design shall be certified by a
geotechnical engineer.
            (8)   All detention and retention basins to be designed to drain
within a twenty-four (24) hour period.
            (9)   All ponds are to be designed with a minimum of one foot (1')
of freeboard or fifty percent (50%) capacity increase, whichever is less.
            (10)   Each development is unique with varying surfaces and areas.
The runoff coefficient for the rational method shall be estimated based on the
following values listed in Table 2 of this section.
TABLE 2
RATIONAL METHOD RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS
Type of Drainage Areas Coefficient
TABLE 2
RATIONAL METHOD RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS
Type of Drainage Areas Coefficient
Forested               0.059 - 0.2
Asphalt                0.7 - 0.95
Brick                  0.7 - 0.85
Concrete               0.8 - 0.95
Shingle roof           0.75 - 0.95
Lawns, well drained (sandy soil):
Up to 2% slope         0.05 - 0.1
2% to 7% slope         0.1 - 0.15
Over 7% slope          0.15 - 0.2
Lawns, poor drainage (clay soil):
Up to 2% slope         0.13 - 0.17
2% to 7% slope         0.18 - 0.22
Over 7% slope          0.25 - 0.35
Driveways and walkways 0.5 - 0.85
 
         h.   Ownership and maintenance of storage facilities will be
determined on a case-by-case basis by the Planning Commission. If ponds are
proposed to be owned and maintained by the city, they must incorporate
recreational facilities and be a minimum of one acre in size. The City engineer
approves the access for maintenance of ponds.
         i.   All stormwater facilities shall incorporate oil and sediment
separators in the system prior to release into a pond or infiltration facility.
         j.   Storm drain pipelines shall be located within the public right of
way or a minimum fifteen foot (15') wide dedicated easement. Pipelines outside
of public rights of way shall also require access and maintenance easements as
directed by the city engineer. The minimum pipe size shall be twelve inches
(12"). Acceptable pipe materials include HDPE, reinforced concrete and
nonreinforced concrete.
         k.   All proposed development shall submit storm drainage calculations
prepared by a licensed engineer in the state of Utah. Acceptable analysis
methods include the rational method, TR55 and HEC HMS.
         l.   All drainage facilities shall be designed to divert surface water
away from cut surfaces or sloping surfaces of a fill.
      3.   Flooding:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
         b.   The subdivision layout must make adequate provision for natural
drainage channels and floodways.
         c.   All water, sewer and other utility systems and facilities located
in designated flood areas shall be designed and constructed to minimize flood
damage, including the infiltration of floodwater into the system, or discharge
of the system into the floodwaters.
   J.   Irrigation Water System: All subdivision plans shall recognize and
accommodate the irrigation system within the city, including, as necessary, the
installation of culverts and pipes, the rerouting of ditches and the
reconstruction of head gates. All canals, ditches and other watercourses which
lie within or are contiguous to a proposed subdivision shall not be interfered
with by the subdivider without complying with the requirements of Utah Code
Annotated section 73-1-15, as amended, and the applicable provisions of this
development code.
   K.   Other: Where applicable, other adverse environmental conditions must
also be eliminated or adequately accommodated. The additional conditions shall
include, but not be limited to, seismic, landslide and groundwater. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 01-12-11-19, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002; Ord. 06-14,
10-10-2006; Ord. 06-19, 11-28-2006; Ord. 12-7, 11-27-2012; Ord. 24-04, 12-10-
2024)
10-15B-2: RESPONSIBLE PARTY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   All costs and charges in connection with the planning and development
of subdivisions shall be borne and paid by the subdivider; provided, that in
instances where oversized improvements are required by the City, the City may
pay a portion of the excess cost for such oversized improvements in an amount
as determined by negotiations between the subdivider and the City.
   B.   All costs for the processing of subdivision proposals and the
administration of this Title shall be borne by the subdivider. The City Council
may, from time to time, establish by resolution a schedule of fees for that
purpose and provide for the assessment and collection thereof. Such schedule of
fees shall be on file in the City office and open to public inspection during
normal office hours. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15B-3: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Before a subdivision plat may be recorded, and before a building permit
may be issued, all improvements required by this Chapter or other City
ordinances shall be either:
      1.   Completed, inspected, and accepted by the City; or
      2.   Guaranteed according to Section
10-15B-4.
   B.   The decision whether to guarantee an improvement or to complete it
before recording and obtaining a building permit rests solely with the
applicant.
   C.   All improvements are subject to City inspection before such
improvements may be accepted by the City or considered complete. The Land Use
Authority shall be responsible for conducting such inspections. Improvements
shall be accepted only if they conform to applicable City ordinances and do not
pose a risk to public health or safety. All public improvements are subject to
the warranty described in section
10-15B-4.
   E.   The provisions of this Chapter do not supersede the terms of a valid
development agreement, an adopted phasing plan, or the state construction code.
(Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15B-4: IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEES, COMPLETION ASSURANCES AND WARRANTIES:
   A.   If an applicant elects to guarantee any required improvement, the
applicant shall provide completion assurance for one hundred ten percent (110%)
of the cost of the improvement, guaranteeing that the improvements will be
completed within two (2) years after the date of the guarantee.
   B.   For the purpose of posting an improvement guarantee, the cost of the
improvement shall be determined by an engineer's estimate or licensed
contractor's bid.
   C.   The City shall accept any of the following forms of guarantee for an
improvement:
      1.   Bond: The applicant may furnish a bond with corporate surety, which
bond shall be approved by the City Attorney and filed with the City Recorder.
      2.   Escrow: The applicant may make a deposit in escrow with an escrow
holder approved by the City Council, under an escrow agreement approved by the
City Attorney and filed with the City Recorder.
      3.   Letter Of Credit: The applicant may provide a letter of credit from
a financial institution approved by the City Council, under an agreement to
complete the improvements that is approved by the City Attorney and filed with
the City Recorder.
   D.   As improvements are completed, inspected, and accepted by the City, the
City Council shall, each quarter, at the option of the applicant, issue a
partial release of bonded or escrow funds proportional to the improvements
accepted during the prior quarter.
   E.   The City shall not require improvement guarantees for any of the
prohibited uses listed in Utah Code §10-9a-604.5(3)(d), including improvements
the City has previously inspected and accepted, private improvements that are
not essential to meet the building code, fire code, flood or storm water
management provisions, street and access requirements, or other essential
necessary public safety improvements adopted in a land use regulation.
   F.   Upon acceptance of all required improvements, the applicant shall
warrant that said improvements shall remain free from defects in material and
workmanship for a period of twelve (12) months after the date of acceptance by
the City. The subdivider shall be solely responsible for all repairs and
maintenance required to keep the improvements in good working condition for
this twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
ARTICLE C. DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-15C-1: Generally
10-15C-2: Streets And Roads
10-15C-3: Blocks
10-15C-4: Lots; Design Standards
10-15C-5: Cul-De-Sacs
10-15C-6: Existing Conditions And Hazards
10-15C-7: Lots Abut On Public Street; Double Frontage Lots Prohibited,
Exceptions
10-15C-8: Work Done By Engineer Or Surveyor
10-15C-9: Drawings Of Record Required
10-15C-10: Adjustments To Standards Permitted; Procedure
10-15C-11: Derelict Parcels Prohibited
10-15C-12: Unimproved Residual Lots Not Permitted
10-15C-13: Water Rights Conveyed To City; Exceptions
10-15C-14: Reimbursement For Off Site Improvements; Conditions And Limitations
10-15C-15: Dwelling Location
10-15C-16: Access Driveways
10-15C-1: GENERALLY:
The City Council is hereby authorized to prepare standards and specifications
for the content of subdivision plans and for the layout, design and
construction of subdivisions and required improvements. Said City construction
and development standards shall include the current APWA standard plans and
specifications. Said City construction and development standards shall be
adopted by ordinance of the City Council. All such requirements shall be
considered the minimum standards which must be met and shall apply to all
subdivisions.
The layout and design of all subdivision developments shall be in accordance
with the requirements and criteria of this article and also the applicable
provisions of the City development and construction standards and current APWA
standard plans and specifications; provided, in the event of conflict, the more
stringent shall apply. (Ord. 18-2, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-2: STREETS AND ROADS:
General Criteria:
   A.   Subdivision Plans Consistent With Street Plan: Subdivision plans shall
be consistent with the major street element of the general plan (major street
plan) as adopted by the City, as follows:
   B.   Collector Streets (Feeder): Where the area of a proposed subdivision
includes any collector class streets, as shown on the major street plan, the
subdivision plan shall incorporate such streets in the location shown on the
major street plan and the approval of the final plat shall include the
dedication of the right-of-way and its improvement in accordance with the
applicable City standards.
   C.   Minor Streets (Local Service): Where the area of a proposed subdivision
includes any minor class streets, as shown on the major street plan, the
subdivision plan shall provide for such a street in the approximate location
shown on the major street plan and the approval of the final plat shall include
the dedication of the right-of-way and its improvement in accordance with the
applicable City standards.
   D.   No subdivision plan which proposes the deletion or significant
realignment of any street shown on the major street plan shall be given
preliminary approval unless and until the major street plan shall have been
amended, in accordance with State law.
   E.   Relationship To Adjacent Streets: The proposed street system shall
properly align and be compatible with adjacent streets.
   F.   Access To Adjacent Properties: In order to facilitate the development
of an adequate and convenient circulation system within the City and to provide
access for the logical development of adjacent vacant properties, the City may,
as a condition of approval, require the subdivision plan to include one or more
temporary dead-end streets (stub streets), which extend to the boundary of the
subdivision. All such stub streets shall be fully developed to the boundary of
the subdivision. Any plan for the subsequent development of the adjacent
property shall provide for the continuation of any such stub street.
   G.   Right-Of-Way Width: The minimum width of right-of-way for streets shown
on the major street element of the general plan shall conform to the width as
designated on the said plan. The minimum right-of-way width for streets not
shown on the plan shall be as follows:
 
Class Of Street Right-Of-Way Width (In Feet)
Minor class     56
Collector class 66
 
   H.   Dedication:
      1.   Subdivision Streets Dedicated To Public: All streets within and
adjacent to a subdivision and all streets required to provide access to the
proposed subdivision (off site) shall either have been previously conveyed to
the city by deed or dedication or shall be shown on the final plat for
dedication to the city for street purposes.
      2.   Cross Section Standards Adopted: The width of the hard surfacing and
the location and type of other required street improvements shall be in
accordance with the typical street cross section standards for the type of
street, as set forth within the city construction and development standards.
      3.   Full Width Streets: All streets shown on the final plat for
dedication to the city shall conform to the minimum standards for street width
and improvements for the entire width of the street.
   I.   System Design Standards: The layout and design of the subdivision
streets shall be in accordance with the requirements and criteria of this
section and also the applicable provisions of the city development and
construction standards; provided, in the event of conflict, the more stringent
shall apply.
   J.   Appeal Of Curb And Gutter Requirement:
      1.   Appeal: The developer of any subdivision which contains street
improvements shall have the ability to appeal the requirement to install curb
and gutter with the necessary road improvements for the subdivision. Such
appeals and decisions rendered shall be in conformance with the terms of this
subsection.
      2.   Process: Any developer wishing to appeal the requirement for curb
and gutter within their proposed subdivision shall complete the requirements
prior to making application for preliminary subdivision review. All appeals of
the curb and gutter requirement shall be heard by the City Council, following
recommendation from the planning commission, at a regularly scheduled meeting
and following proper agenda notice, as provided in the Utah State Code. All
appeal hearings shall be considered an administrative action, and all
discussion and decisions shall be based around evidence introduced during the
hearing. No opinion and speculation shall be admitted into evidence and shall
be considered and handled as hearsay and public clamor.
      3.   Criteria For Approval: In order to grant an appeal of the
requirement for curb and gutter within a proposed subdivision, the City Council
must find all of the following:
         a.   The developer will make necessary improvements at no cost to the
City which:
            (1)   Contains and adequately disposes of all storm water within
the boundaries of the subdivision; or
            (2)   Adequately disposes of all storm water in a location outside
the boundaries of the subdivision in such a manner as to not impact properties
outside the subdivision which are not under the ownership or control of the
developer.
         b.   The developer will post a bond, in an amount established by the
city engineer, for a term of two (2) years for the sole purpose of maintenance
of the asphalt roadways within the subdivision; and
         c.   All concerns of the City Council regarding roadway improvements
will be satisfied in a manner deemed appropriate by the city council.
   K.   Grade: No major collector/arterial street shall have a grade of more
than eight percent (8%) and no local street shall have a grade of more than ten
percent (10%), except that the Planning Commission may approve up to an
additional two percent (2%) grade for short stretches of roadway where, in its
opinion, the eight percent (8%)/ten percent (10%) standard would result in
undesirable extra earthwork or circuitous routes and that the proposed steep
grade section will not result in the establishment of a hazardous condition. It
is the responsibility of the developer to present evidence that the additional
allowance in grade is desirable. The City Engineer shall provide recommendation
regarding hazardous conditions and any other concerns on the proposed steep
grade sections.
      1.   Roads that cross slopes greater than thirty percent (30%) must be
reviewed by the planning commission and the city engineer; they must conclude
that such streets or roads will not have significant adverse visual,
environmental, or safety impacts.
      2.   Streets and roads proposed to cross slopes greater than ten percent
(10%) are allowed, subject to the following:
         a.   Proof that such street and/or road will be built with minimum
environmental damage (see subsection F3 of this section) and within acceptable
public safety parameters.
         b.   Such street and road design follows contour lines to preserve the
natural character of the land and are screened with trees or vegetation.
      3.   Cutting and filling is minimized and must be stabilized and
revegetated to a natural state within the first year of the two (2) year
durability time period. A stabilization and revegetation plan must be approved
by the Planning Commission and City Engineer.
   L.   Intersection Grade: The maximum grade of intersecting roads shall be
either four percent (4%) and extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') on
each leg of the intersection, or three percent (3%) and extended a minimum of
fifty feet (50') on each leg of the intersection. Grade shall be measured from
the edge of the asphalt of the intersecting roadway to the nearest grade break/
vertical curve.
   M.   Slope: No street providing access to a lot shall be constructed in a
location or in such a manner which results in the creation of a slope arch
exceeding the critical angle of repose or a disturbed cross section which
exceeds the cut and fill slope standards for streets in the City. Any driveway
providing access to a buildable area shall have a slope of not more than twelve
percent (12%) and shall not result in any cut or fill slopes greater than seven
feet (7'). Any cut or fill between five feet (5') and seven feet (7') shall be
subject to Planning Commission approval.
   N.   Improvement Of Existing Boundary Streets: Existing streets fronting or
bounding the development shall be improved to meet the classification and
construction standards specified by the City for the street. These requirements
shall include:
      1.   Dedication of additional right-of-way width to meet half of the
minimum width required for the particular street classification as measured
from the centerline of the existing street right-of-way.
      2.   Developer shall provide as part of preliminary plat application a
survey of existing street improvements on existing street rights-of-way
bounding the proposed subdivision and an assessment by a licensed Geotech
assessing the condition of the existing concrete and bituminous pavement, base
and subgrade materials and certifying whether or not the existing right-of-way
improvements meet Elk Ridge City's current development and construction
standards. The survey shall include topography, location and elevations of
street crowns, edge of pavement, curb and gutter, sidewalk, utility boxes,
manholes and any other permanent objects within the street right-of-way or
adjacent to the street right-of-way that may be associated to the existing
improvements or have bearing on potential future improvements associated with
the proposed subdivision.
      3.   In cases where the existing street improvements do not meet current
City improvement standards, deficiencies shall be corrected to meet current
standards. These corrections include any deficiencies in the right-of-way from
the subdivision boundary to the centerline of the right-of-way. Additional
repair and replacement may be required beyond the right-of-way centerline if
construction of improvements for the subdivision such as trenching for
utilities serving the subdivision or construction activities for the
subdivision have damaged existing improvements or the design of the proposed
improvements requires additional reconstruction to provide smooth transitions,
maintain appropriate drainage and maintain the safe operation of improvements.
      4.   Improvements in the half width of the right-of-way as measured from
the centerline of the existing street right-of-way shall meet the same
construction finish standards required within the subdivision. Existing
pavement surfaces to remain shall be milled down and overlain with a minimum of
one inch (1") bituminous surface course providing a continuous surface from
street centerline to edge of pavement at lip of curb or shoulder.
      5.   If the existing boundary street right-of-way is not paved,
improvements to bring the street in compliance with current City standards
shall include a paved surface width of a minimum of twenty four feet (24') for
the full length of the subdivision boundary frontage or, in agreement with the
City, full width improvements to the right-of-way for a distance proportional
to the total length of subdivision boundary, as if partial improvement were
completed.
      6.   Additional offsite improvements may be required by the City to
adequately provide for the health, safety and welfare of subdivision residents.
   O.   Construction Entrance:
      1.   All subdivisions within the City shall include a dedicated entrance
for construction traffic. All mitigation methods should not be placed on a City
right-of-way. If no such alternative access is available, an alternate cross
section specifically designed for construction vehicles during the building
phase of the project must be constructed within the City right-of-way.
      2.   The purpose of this requirement is to minimize damage to newly
constructed surfaces and existing adjacent roadways caused by heavy vehicular
traffic. Compliance with this requirement shall be overseen by the City
Engineer.
      3.   Construction entrances shall adhere to the following:
         a.   Construction entrances shall not disrupt any pedestrian access
routes;
         b.   All construction entrances and exits must remain ADA-compliant
throughout the duration of construction; and
         c.   If new road entrances require the removal of pedestrian access
routes, an approved detour route that complies with ADA standards must be
established before any pedestrian access is removed.
      4.   For subdivisions without alternative access:
         a.   If a subdivision is situated such that no construction access is
available except through existing subdivisions, an additional monetary amount
shall be added to the subdivision improvement bond. This amount, determined by
the SRC, shall cover potential damage to City infrastructure caused by
construction traffic.
         b.   A truck route must be approved as part of the subdivision's
submittal process before construction begins. (Ord. 07-3, 2-27-2007; amd. Ord.
18-2, 2-13-2018; Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-3: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length: The maximum length of blocks, generally, shall be one thousand
two hundred feet (1,200') and the minimum length of blocks shall be five
hundred feet (500'). In blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length, the
subdivider may be required to dedicate a walkway through the block at
approximately the center of the block. Such walkway shall not be less than ten
feet (10') in width.
   B.   Width: The width of blocks generally shall be sufficient to allow two
(2) tiers of lots.
   C.   Use: Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designed
especially for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off street
parking and delivery facilities. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-
10-2024)
10-15C-4: LOTS; DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Building Sites: The lot arrangement, design, and shape shall be such
that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, be
properly related to topography and conform to requirements set forth herein.
Building sites shall not be designed to contain areas which are determined to
be a peninsula unless the exclusion of said area would result in the creation
of residual or remnant property or parcels. Under no circumstances shall the
area of any such peninsula in a lot be included in computing the total or
buildable area of the lot.
   B.   Conform To Zoning Provisions: All lots shown on the subdivision plat
must conform to the minimum requirements of the zone in which the subdivision
is located.
   C.   Corner Lots:
      1.   Orientation: All vehicular access and egress routes shall be
oriented toward a street of minor collector class or lower. In addition, the
following shall apply:
         a.   In the instance that such a property abuts two (2) streets of
minor collector class or lower, the access and egress routes shall be oriented
towards the street of lowest classification.
         b.   In the instance that such a property abuts two (2) streets of
major collector class or higher, the access and egress routes shall be oriented
towards the street of lowest classification. In addition, one of the following
shall be installed as a part of the access or egress route:
            (1)   Circular driveway.
            (2)   Hammerhead driveway.
      2.   Petition For Higher Classification: When access or egress onto the
street of lesser classification is thought to be inconsistent with the planned
development for the property, the applicant may petition the Planning
Commission requesting access or egress onto the street of higher
classification.
      3.   Review; Appeal: Upon a decision being rendered by the Planning
Commission, the applicant may petition the City Council for review of the
Planning Commission's decision. Upon a decision being rendered by the City
Council, an applicant feeling aggrieved by said decision may appeal to the
Appeal Authority as stipulated in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9-704.
   D.   Angle Of Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be approximately at right
angles, or radial to the street line, except where topographic conditions make
it advisable to have side lot lines deflect at sharper angles.
   E.   Water And Sewer:
      1.   All lots within the subdivision shall be served by a central, State
approved water system (i.e., City, Goosenest, Loafer Canyon water system),
providing adequate flow and pressure for both culinary and fire purposes.
      2.   All lots within the subdivision shall be served by the City sanitary
sewer collection system. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; Ord. 02-1-8-1, 1-8-2002,
eff. 2-8-2002; Ord. 03-8-26-4, 8-26-2003, eff. 9-26-2003; Ord. 06-17, 11-14-
2006; Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007; Ord. 15-4, 9-8-2015, eff. 12-23-2015; amd. Ord. 24-
04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-5: CUL-DE-SACS:
   A.   Use Of Cul-De-Sacs: The design of the road system shall provide for
continuous circulation throughout the project. Cul- de-sacs and temporary dead
end roads stubbed for future development must have approval by the Planning
Commission and are only allowed where unusual conditions exist which make other
designs undesirable.
   B.   Cul-De-Sac Length: The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be five
hundred feet (500') as measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the
adjacent street to the center point of the turnaround with no more than sixteen
(16) dwelling units accessing the cul-de-sac. The Planning Commission may grant
an exception up to a maximum length of eight hundred feet (800') in single-
family dwelling developments where the configuration or topography of the land
reasonably limits the ability to provide a second access point to the local
street system. The number of dwelling units may not be increased from the
maximum of sixteen (16) dwelling units when the increased length exception is
granted. The Planning Commission may grant an exception to the maximum number
of dwelling units accessing the cul-de-sac in multi-family dwelling
developments to a total twenty four (24) units along the five hundred foot
(500') maximum length. In no case shall the Planning Commission grant a
combined exception expanding the maximum length and the maximum number of
dwelling units.
   C.   Cul-De-Sac Turnaround Diameter: Each cul-de-sac shall be terminated
with a turnaround or loop road of not less than one hundred twenty feet (120')
in diameter at the property line, unless specified by Title 10 zone
regulations. The City Engineer may require an increased diameter if design
conditions necessitate increased diameter in order for large vehicles and
emergency equipment to negotiate the turnaround. In no case shall an exception
be granted for a turnaround smaller than the one hundred twenty foot (120')
minimum diameter.
   D.   Pedestrian Access: All cul-de-sacs shall provide pedestrian
connectivity to open space areas, public facilities, trails, or adjacent
subdivisions as found in the adopted parks map and trails map. (Ord. 16-2, 8-
23-2016; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-6: EXISTING CONDITIONS AND HAZARDS:
   A.   The design of the subdivision shall preserve to the extent possible the
natural terrain, drainage, existing topsoil, and trees.
   B.   Land subject to hazardous conditions such as landslides, mudflow, rock
falls, or snow avalanches shall be identified and shall not be developed until
the hazards have been eliminated or will be eliminated by the proposed
development and construction plans. (Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-7: LOTS ABUT ON PUBLIC STREET; DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS PROHIBITED,
EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Each lot in a subdivision shall abut on a street dedicated to the City
by the subdivision plat or an existing public street, either dedicated or which
has become public by right of use and is more than fifty-six feet (56') wide.
Interior lots having frontage on two (2) streets are prohibited except in
instances where topographic conditions make such design desirable. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-8: WORK DONE BY ENGINEER OR SURVEYOR:
   A.   All engineering work must be done by, or under direction of, a
professional engineer registered in the State. All land survey work must be
done by, or under the direction of, a land surveyor registered in the State.
(Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-9: DRAWINGS OF RECORD REQUIRED:
   A.   Plans showing the location, size, grade and depth of all water and
sewer mains, valves, manholes and other subsurface utility and service lines
and facilities shall be required prior to the release of performance
guarantees. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-10: ADJUSTMENTS TO STANDARDS PERMITTED; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Adjustments or waivers to the strict application of the standards and
specifications of this Chapter or the City development and construction
standards may be authorized by the Land Use Authority. Any such adjustment
shall be granted only upon a finding that, because of topographic or other
unique physical condition, the standard appealed from:
      1.   Is unnecessary for the proper development of the subdivision and
will not be required in the future;
      2.   Would cause an unreasonable hardship if adhered to;
      3.   May be granted without destroying the intent of the standard or this
development code;
      4.   The adjustment does not constitute a variance from the terms of the
zoning ordinance (such variances are to be granted only by the appeal
authority).
   B.   The powers of the appeal authority shall not be construed to have
authority to grant variances or waive the requirements for approval of
subdivision, any design or construction standard for subdivision improvements
or any provision of the city's development and construction standards. (Ord.
97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007; Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-11: DERELICT PARCELS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No subdivision plan shall have the effect of creating a derelict
parcel. Any such parcel must be attached to adjacent lots rather than allowed
to remain as an independent parcel. Privately owned protection or retainer
strips shall not be permitted. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-
10-2024)
10-15C-12: UNIMPROVED RESIDUAL LOTS NOT PERMITTED:
   A.   No subdivision plan shall have the effect of leaving a residual zoning
lot for which the required subdivision improvements: a) have not been
previously constructed; or b) are not to be included as part of the required
improvements for the proposed subdivision. For purposes of this section, a
"residual zoning lot" shall be construed to include a parcel created by the
proposed subdivision but not included as a lot on the final plat, which
qualifies as a zoning lot, but because of insufficient size, dimension or other
limitation is not readily capable of further division in accordance with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 24-
04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-13: WATER RIGHTS CONVEYED TO CITY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Amount Of Water Rights: As a condition of approval of a subdivision
which proposes to obtain water service from the city water system, the
developer thereof shall convey to the city title to water rights in the amount
of two and six-tenths (2.6) acre feet for each acre of development. The exact
amount required shall be determined by multiplying two and six-tenths (2.6) by
the acreage of the lot(s), or if the intended use will require more than two
and six-tenths (2.6) acre feet per acre per year, the city may require the
conveyance of additional water rights to accommodate the anticipated additional
demand for water. In no case shall less than one and three-tenths (1.3) acre
foot for each dwelling be conveyed to the city.
   B.   Type Of Water Right: The water right proposed for conveyance to the
city shall: 1) be of a type which is capable of ready conversion for domestic
purposes from existing city supply source (i.e., domestic well, natural flow
right); 2) have received approval by the state engineer of a change application
permitting the use of the water for municipal purposes, uses within the city
and diversion of the water from municipal sources; and 3) the owner thereof
shall have executed a warranty deed with the city providing for the actual
conveyance of the water right to the city at the time of final plat approval.
   C.   Water Right Conveyance Classified As Project Improvement: For purposes
of compliance with the terms of the Utah impact fee act, the conveyance of the
water right shall be construed as a project improvement. (Ord. 01-11-13-15, 11-
13-2001; amd. Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-14: REIMBURSEMENT FOR OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS; CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Reimbursement shall be allowed for off-site improvements which are
required as a condition of approval of a subdivision. Whenever an extension of
any required off site improvement benefits property contiguous to the
extension, other than property owned by the subdivider, the city will enter on
its records the amount of the actual cost of the extension across the
benefitted property. The owner of the benefitted property shall reimburse the
subdivider the charges assessed against such benefitted property for a period
of thirty (30) years from the date of completion and acceptance of the
extension by the city. All reimbursable improvements under this section shall
be constructed to the fullest extent of the improvement, including, but not
limited to, full width and fully improved rights of way.
   B.   The amount of the reimbursement to be paid by a benefitted property
shall be determined by an engineer's estimate submitted to the city on a per
linear foot basis. The extension reimbursement charge shall be paid before any
service connection is made to the benefitted property and shall be in addition
to all other fees and charges. (Ord. 05-4, 2-22-2005, eff. 3-22-2005; amd. Ord.
24-04, 12-10-2024)
10-15C-15: DWELLING LOCATION:
   A.   Fire Chief Approval: Any dwelling proposed to be located such that any
part of the structure is further than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the
nearest street, as measured along the centerline of the access driveway, must
be approved by the Fire Chief prior to a building permit being issued. The Fire
Chief may require additional modifications to ensure compliance with fire
safety standards and emergency access requirements.
   B.   Exception By City Council Required: Any dwelling proposed to be located
such that any part of the structure is further than two hundred feet (200')
from the nearest street, as measured along the centerline of the access
driveway, must be granted an exception by the City Council prior to a building
permit being issued.
   C.   Exception Not Permitted: In no event shall any such exception be
granted for the placement of a dwelling to be located more than five hundred
feet (500') from the nearest street as measured along the centerline of the
access driveway. (Ord. 00-9-12-13, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-9-2000; amd. Ord. 24-04,
12-10-2024)
10-15C-16: ACCESS DRIVEWAYS:
All access driveways having a length greater than one hundred fifty feet
(150'), as measured along the centerline from the street to the nearest point
of the dwelling, shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   All Weather Route: The driveway shall consist of an all-weather route,
not less than twenty feet (20') in width, capable of supporting the imposed
load of fire apparatus. Access roads and rights of way shall be maintained by
the property owner, or possessor of the premises, in good condition and repair,
with adequate snow removal so as to provide free and uninhibited access by
emergency vehicles.
   B.   Surface: The driveway surface shall consist of asphalt having a depth
of not less than two and one half inches (2.5") three and one half (3.5")
inches over a minimum of six inches (6") of compacted road base, or concrete
having a depth of not less than five inches (5") over a compacted road base.
The driveway shall have minimum vertical clearance of no less than thirteen and
one-half feet (13.5").
   C.   Curves: All curves to the driveway shall conform to the minimum
standards set forth under figure 4. Each drive shall terminate with a
turnaround or hammerhead conforming to the requirements set forth, as
applicable in attachments 2 and 3.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2559.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2561.png]
 
(Ord. 24-04, 12-10-2024)
ARTICLE D. SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-15D-1: Required; Specifications
10-15D-2: Time Limit For Installation; Performance Guarantee
10-15D-3: List Of Required Improvements
10-15D-1: REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   The improvements set forth under section
10-15D-3 of this article shall be required to be installed for all areas shown
on the final plat and at all off site locations designated at the time of final
plat approval. The required improvements shall meet minimum City standards for
design and quality of materials and shall be installed in accordance with
minimum City standards and specifications and current APWA standard plans and
specifications (see section
10-15F-1 of this chapter), as directed by the City.
   B.   The placement, size and type of all required improvements shall be
shown on the preliminary plan, and the detailed specifications relating to such
improvements shall be shown on the final engineering drawings. (Ord. 18-2, 2-
13-2018)
10-15D-2: TIME LIMIT FOR INSTALLATION; PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   All required improvements not in place prior to the approval of the
final plat by the City Council shall be installed by the subdivider one year
from the date of final plat approval by City Council; provided, however, that
upon a showing of good and sufficient cause (i.e., lateness of the final
approval date, unexpected delays, etc.), the City Council may extend the date
of completion or authorize a longer period of time for completing construction
of part or all of the uncompleted improvements to a date not more distant than
July 1 of the next succeeding year.
   B.   A performance guarantee securing the installation of all required
improvements which have not been completed and accepted by the City Council
prior to final plat approval shall be required as a condition of final plat
approval. The performance guarantee shall be in accordance with the provisions
of chapter 16 of this title. (Ord. 16-6, 11-15-2016)
10-15D-3: LIST OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
The improvements required for subdivisions within the City shall be as follows:
   A.   Streets And Roads:
      1.   Improvements: All streets shown on the final plat for dedication to
the City and any existing street, whether or not shown on the final plat, which
is contiguous and provides access to any lot in a subdivision shall be improved
in conformance with the applicable cross section and construction standards as
set forth in the City development and construction standards.
      2.   Asphalt Layer Thickness: All streets shall be installed with a two
and one-half inch (21/2") surface layer of asphalt at the time of initial
development construction. At such a time that ninety percent (90%) or more of
the lots have been permitted for site construction, or not more than two (2)
years from the date of initial performance guarantee, the developer shall be
responsible for any and all street repairs necessary and the installation of a
one inch (1") asphalt overlay on all parts of all roads in and associated with
the subdivision. At no time shall a street in a subdivision be completed with a
street surface asphalt layer being thinner than three and one-half inches (31/
2") total thickness.
      3.   Street Grade: No major collector/arterial street shall have a grade
of more than eight percent (8%) and no local street shall have a grade of more
than ten percent (10%), except that the City Council may approve up to an
additional two percent (2%) grade for short stretches of roadway where, in its
opinion, the eight percent (8%)/ten percent (10%) standards would result in
undesirable extra earthwork or circuitous routes and that the proposed steep
grade section will not result in the establishment of a hazardous condition. It
is the responsibility of the developer to present evidence that the additional
allowance in grade is desirable. The City Engineer shall provide recommendation
regarding hazardous conditions and any other concerns on the proposed steep
grade sections. (Ord. 06-19, 11-28-2006)
   B.   Sidewalks And Trails:
      1.   Sidewalks; Compliance: Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides
of streets, at the developer's expense, and in compliance with the detailed
performance standards of "city of Elk Ridge construction specifications and
standards". Sidewalks are "required improvements", subject to the guarantee
provisions of chapter 16 of this title.
      2.   Sidewalks; Infill Areas/Agricultural Zones: Sidewalks may not be
required in infill areas not required to have curb and gutter. They are also
not required in agricultural zones. The city council can require sidewalk in
infill or agricultural zones if deemed appropriate. Such determination may be
made if lot sizes, traffic patterns, wider roads or other related design
factors support installation of sidewalks.
      3.   Sidewalks; Placement: Notwithstanding other provisions of this
title, the city council may determine in the development agreement that
sidewalks will not be required on one or both sides of the street. Such
determination may be made if lot sizes, traffic patterns, wider roads or other
related design factors support a more flexible approach. If sidewalks are not
required, the city council may specify the completion of other public
facilities in lieu of sidewalks.
      4.   Improved Trails: Developments shall provide improved trails
constructed to "city of Elk Ridge construction specifications and standards"
for bicycle/pedestrian use which connect the development to other public
facilities such as parks or the major existing and planned trails established
in the city's general plan. The trail requirement also is extended to cul-de-
sacs that require a trail easement connecting neighborhoods. Trails are
required improvements, subject to the guarantee provisions of chapter 16 of
this title. (Ord. 06-14, 10-10-2006)
   C.   Culinary Water System:
      1.   The subdivider shall be responsible for installing all off site and
on site water mains. All on site mains shall be installed in such a way that
each lot shall be served therefrom. All water mains shall extend to the
boundaries of the subdivision.
      2.   All water mains shall be sufficient in size to provide a volume of
flow and level of pressure adequate for culinary use (in accordance with state
and city standards) and fire protection purposes (in accordance with the city
fire code); provided, that no water main shall be less than eight inches (8")
in diameter.
      3.   Water service laterals shall be installed from the main line to each
adjacent lot. The service lateral shall consist of: a) the corporation stop
adjacent to the main line; b) the lateral pipe running from the main to the
adjacent lot; and c) the stop and waste valve, meter box and meter setter
located within the boundary of the lot 1 .
      4.   All mains and laterals shall be constructed prior to the
installation of road base and hard surfacing of the road and curb and gutter,
where such is required.
      5.   The subdivision water system shall be connected to a water supply
facility (source, reservoir and delivery system) which is capable of delivering
adequate flows for both culinary and fire purposes.
      6.   The type and quality of materials, location and placement of pipes
and other particulars relating to design and construction of the system shall
be in accordance with the city development and construction standards.
   D.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   All subdivisions shall have fire hydrants installed at locations
approved by the fire chief and city engineer.
      2.   Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with city standards,
as determined by the city engineer.
   E.   Sewerage:
      1.   Both off site and on site sewer mains of not less than eight inches
(8") in diameter shall be installed in such a way that each lot in the
subdivision will be connected thereto.
      2.   Separate sewer service laterals shall be installed from the main to
each adjacent lot. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 06-14, 10-10-2006)
      3.   All new development must connect to the city sanitary sewer
collection system at the time of construction. (Ord. 01-12-11-19, 12-11-2001,
eff. 1-11-2002; amd. Ord. 06-14, 10-10-2006)
      4.   The quality of materials, location and placement of pipes and other
particulars relating to design and construction of the system shall be in
accordance with the city development and construction standards.
   F.   Permanent Survey Markers: Permanent survey monuments shall be installed
in each subdivision. The location of the monuments shall be as required by the
city engineer and shall be shown on the final plat. Also, all corners on the
subdivision and all lot corners in the subdivision shall be marked.
   G.   Electric, Telephone And Natural Gas: Electric power, telephone and
natural gas shall be provided to each lot. All lines and appurtenant facilities
shall be located a minimum of thirty six inches (36") underground, except when
approved by the city council upon a finding that compliance with the standard
set forth herein is not practically feasible.
   H.   Street Signs: Street signs shall be installed at all locations
indicated on the preliminary plan. All required signs shall conform to city
standards and be provided and installed by the city, at the expense of the
subdivider.
   I.   Environmental Hazards: Adverse environmental conditions must be
eliminated or accommodated as follows:
      1.   Soils:
         a.   The placement of streets, buildings and the designation of
building sites on areas of unstable soils shall be prohibited.
         b.   Soils with a significant erosion hazard shall be protected.
Revegetation or other erosion control measures may be imposed as a condition of
subdivision approval. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 06-14, 10-10-2006)
      2.   Surface Water Disposal:
         a.   To the maximum extent possible, surface water produced from the
subdivision development shall be properly disposed of within the limits of the
subdivision. If not possible within the limits of the development, alternative
disposal methods off site may be considered as approved by the city engineer.
         b.   Pipes, manholes, sumps and other facilities for the collection,
transport and disposal of surface water shall be installed where required by
the city. The location, size and design of said facilities and any easements
relating thereto, shall be in accordance with the city stormwater disposal
plans and standards or as directed by the city engineer.
         c.   The location of all facilities and easements shall be shown on
the plans, plats and engineering drawings, as applicable.
         d.   All plans for subdivision or development shall identify the
location of all existing natural drainage channels and final plats of
subdivision, and similar land development projects shall provide a drainage
easement which includes the natural channel.
         e.   No structure shall be located less than thirty feet (30') from
the boundary of any designated drainage channel and the layout of any
subdivision or similar development project which contains a natural drainage
channel shall be so arranged to ensure that all required building setbacks can
be maintained.
         f.   Facilities for stormwater runoff shall be required to be
constructed on development sites and according to the following design
standards:
            (1) Such facilities shall be the first improvement of facilities on
the property. Phasing of drainage facilities may be allowed as approved by the
city engineer.
            (2) All storm drain catch basins, pipes and manholes shall be
designed to collect and convey stormwater runoff from the 25-year, 24-hour
storm.
            (3) In the event that a documented downstream discharge or storage
with available capacity is present, detention basins shall be designed to
detain runoff from the 25-year, 24-hour storm with a maximum discharge rate
equal to the predevelopment discharge rate. In addition, the stormwater plan
shall make provisions for the accommodation of flows during a 100-year storm
event in a manner that will minimize damage to personal property.
            (4) Retention facilities such as sumps and retention ponds shall be
designed to retain runoff from the 100-year, 24-hour storm.
            (5) The design storm criteria shall be as follows:
            TABLE 1
      ELK RIDGE CITY 25- AND 100-year
      STORM DEPTH AND INTENSITY
Duration 25-year Depth  25-year Intensity  100-year Depth  100-year Intensity
         (Inches)       (Inches/Hour)      (Inches)        (Inches/Hour)
Duration   25-year Depth  25-year Intensity  100-year Depth  100-year Intensity
           (Inches)       (Inches/Hour)      (Inches)        (Inches/Hour)
5 minutes  0.372          4.46               0.540           6.48
10 minutes 0.566          3.40               0.822           4.93
15 minutes 0.701          2.80               1.02            4.08
30 minutes 0.944          1.89               1.37            2.74
60 minutes 1.17           1.17               1.70            1.70
2 hours    1.34           0.669              1.91            0.953
3 hours    1.43           0.475              1.98            0.658
6 hours    1.63           0.273              2.15            0.358
12 hours   2.01           0.167              2.51            0.209
24 hours   2.42           0.101              2.94            0.123
 
         g.   Multipurpose stormwater storage facilities or ponds which
incorporate recreational facilities such as sport fields, playgrounds and
gathering areas are encouraged. Such facilities must incorporate underground
rock galleries or connected sumps which disperse nuisance waters under the
surface of the pond or recreation facility. The pond must also be tiered in
such a way that water from a 25-year storm event is contained in a lower tier.
Only major storms larger than a 25-year event should reach the upper tier where
recreational facilities may be located. All storage facilities whether they
incorporate recreational facilities or not must be designed to the following
criteria:
            (1) Maximum side slope on the inside of a pond to be three
horizontal to one vertical (3:1) for ponds up to two feet (2') deep, four
horizontal to one vertical (4:1) for ponds three (3) to four feet (4') deep and
five horizontal to one vertical (5:1) for ponds over four feet (4') deep.
            (2) Ponds over two feet (2') deep must be approved by the city
engineer. Safety measures such as fencing may be required as well as additional
landscaping.
            (3) Maximum slope on the outside of a pond to be two horizontal to
one vertical (2:1).
            (4) Vehicular access for maintenance shall be provided.
            (5) A landscape plan shall be submitted to the city for review and
approval. All stormwater facilities are to be landscaped appropriate to the
design criteria and surrounding properties.
            (6) In case of detention ponds, an emergency overflow spillway
shall be incorporated into the design assuming the outlet is inoperable and the
inflow exceeds the outlet capacity.
            (7) Percolation tests used for design shall be certified by a
geotechnical engineer.
            (8) All detention and retention basins to be designed to drain
within a twenty four (24) hour period.
            (9) All ponds to be designed with a minimum of one foot (1') of
freeboard or fifty percent (50%) capacity increase, whichever is less.
            (10) Each development is unique with varying surfaces and areas.
The runoff coefficient for the rational method shall be estimated based on the
following values listed in table 2 of this section.
         TABLE 2
      RATIONAL METHOD RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS
Type Of Drainage Areas Coefficient
Type Of Drainage Areas            Coefficient
Forested                             0.059 - 0.2
Asphalt                              0.7 - 0.95
Brick                                0.7 - 0.85
Concrete                             0.8 - 0.95
Shingle roof                         0.75 - 0.95
Lawns, well drained (sandy soil):  
Up to 2% slope                       0.05 - 0.1
2% to 7% slope                       0.1 - 0.15
Over 7% slope                        0.15 - 0.2
Lawns, poor drainage (clay soil):  
Up to 2% slope                       0.13 - 0.17
2% to 7% slope                       0.18 - 0.22
Over 7% slope                        0.25 - 0.35
Driveways and walkways               0.5 - 0.85
 
         h.   Ownership and maintenance of storage facilities will be
determined on a case by case basis by the city council. If ponds are proposed
to be owned and maintained by the city, they must incorporate recreational
facilities and be a minimum of one acre in size. Landowners are encouraged to
work with adjacent landowners in a cooperative effort to provide regional ponds
which service multiple properties. If a pond is proposed to be privately owned
and maintained, a perpetual maintenance plan outlining requirements,
responsible party and funding sources must be submitted as part of the approval
process.
         i.   All stormwater facilities shall incorporate oil and sediment
separators in the system prior to release into a pond or infiltration facility.
         j.   Storm drain pipelines shall be located within the public right of
way or a minimum fifteen foot (15') wide dedicated easement. Pipelines outside
of public rights of way may also require access and maintenance easements as
directed by the city engineer. The minimum pipe size shall be twelve inches
(12"). Acceptable pipe materials include HDPE, reinforced concrete and
nonreinforced concrete.
         k.   All proposed development shall submit storm drainage calculations
prepared by a licensed engineer in the state of Utah. Acceptable analysis
methods include the rational method, TR-55 and HEC HMS.
         l.   All drainage facilities shall be designed to divert surface water
away from cut surfaces or sloping surfaces of a fill. (Ord. 12-7, 11-27-2012)
      3.   Flooding:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
         b.   The subdivision layout must make adequate provision for natural
drainage channels and floodways.
         c.   All water, sewer and other utility systems and facilities located
in designated flood areas shall be designed and constructed to minimize flood
damage, including the infiltration of floodwater into the system, or discharge
of the system into the floodwaters.
   J.   Irrigation Water System: All subdivision plans shall recognize and
accommodate the irrigation system within the city, including, as necessary, the
installation of culverts and pipes, the rerouting of ditches and the
reconstruction of head gates. All canals, ditches and other watercourses which
lie within or are contiguous to a proposed subdivision shall not be interfered
with by the subdivider without complying with the requirements of Utah Code
Annotated section 73-1-15, as amended, and the applicable provisions of this
development code.
   K.   Other: Where applicable, other adverse environmental conditions must
also be eliminated or adequately accommodated. The additional conditions shall
include, but not be limited to, seismic, landslide and groundwater. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 06-14, 10-10-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-5-5 of this code.
ARTICLE E. DEVELOPMENT COSTS
SECTION:
10-15E-1: Responsible Party; Exceptions
10-15E-1: RESPONSIBLE PARTY; EXCEPTIONS:
All costs and charges in connection with the planning and development of
subdivisions shall be borne and paid by the subdivider; provided, that in
instances where oversized improvements are required by the city, the city may
pay a portion of the excess cost for such oversized improvements in an amount
as determined by negotiations between the subdivider and the city. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997)
ARTICLE F. REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-15F-1: Standards And Specifications
10-15F-2: Development Agreements Authorized
10-15F-3: Lots Abut On Public Street; Double Frontage Lots Prohibited,
Exceptions
10-15F-4: Amended Plats
10-15F-5: Work Done By Engineer Or Surveyor
10-15F-6: Drawings Of Record Required
10-15F-7: Adjustments To Standards Permitted; Procedure
10-15F-8: Application Fees And Charges
10-15F-9: Derelict Parcels Prohibited
10-15F-10: Unimproved Residual Lots Not Permitted
10-15F-11: Water Rights Conveyed To City; Exceptions
10-15F-12: Reimbursement For Off Site Improvements; Conditions And Limitations
10-15F-1: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The City Council is hereby authorized to prepare standards and specifications
for the content of subdivision plans and for the layout, design and
construction of subdivisions and required improvements. Said City construction
and development standards shall include the current APWA standard plans and
specifications. Said City construction and development standards shall be
adopted by ordinance of the City Council. All such requirements shall be
considered the minimum standards which must be met and shall apply to all
subdivisions. (Ord. 18-2, 2-13-2018)
10-15F-2: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED:
The City Council is hereby authorized to require and enter into development
agreements with specific subdividers in order to more fully set forth the terms
and conditions of approval of a specific subdivision project, the extent of the
understandings between the City and the subdivider regarding the scope of any
shared responsibility in the construction of improvements and similar matters
relating to the approval of a specific subdivision project. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-
8-1997)
10-15F-3: LOTS ABUT ON PUBLIC STREET; DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS PROHIBITED,
EXCEPTIONS:
Each lot in a subdivision shall abut on a street dedicated to the City by the
subdivision plat or an existing public street, either dedicated or which has
become public by right of use, and is more than fifty six feet (56') wide.
Interior lots having frontage on two (2) streets are prohibited except in
instances where topographic conditions make such design desirable. (Ord. 97-7-
8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-15F-4: AMENDED PLATS:
   A.   Approval Required: No change shall be made in a plat which has received
final approval unless and until approval for said change has been given by both
the Planning Commission and City Council.
   B.   Final Plat Recorded: Any request proposing the vacation, alteration or
amendment of a subdivision or portion of a subdivision for which a final plat
has been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, or of any street, lot
or alley contained in the plat shall be in accordance with the procedure set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9-808 et seq., as amended. Where such
alteration or amendment necessitates the filing of a new plat at the Office of
the County Recorder, said plat of the subdivision or the affected area thereof,
shall conform to the procedures and requirements for approval of a subdivision
as set forth in this Development Code. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-15F-5: WORK DONE BY ENGINEER OR SURVEYOR:
All engineering work must be done by, or under direction of, a professional
engineer registered in the State. All land survey work must be done by, or
under the direction of, a land surveyor registered in the State. (Ord. 97-7-8-
8, 7-8-1997)
10-15F-6: DRAWINGS OF RECORD REQUIRED:
Plans showing the location, size, grade and depth of all water and sewer mains,
valves, manholes and other subsurface utility and service lines and facilities
shall be required prior to the release of performance guarantees. (Ord. 97-7-8-
8, 7-8-1997)
10-15F-7: ADJUSTMENTS TO STANDARDS PERMITTED; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Adjustments or waivers to the strict application of the standards and
specifications of this chapter or the city development and construction
standards as adopted pursuant to section
10-15F-1 of this article, may be authorized by the city council after
recommendation from the planning commission. Any such adjustment shall be
granted only upon a finding that, because of topographic or other unique
physical condition, the standard appealed from:
      1.   Is unnecessary for the proper development of the subdivision and
will not be required in the future;
      2.   Would cause an unreasonable hardship if adhered to;
      3.   May be granted without destroying the intent of the standard or this
development code; (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
      4.   The adjustment does not constitute a variance from the terms of the
zoning ordinance (such variances are to be granted only by the appeal
authority).
   B.   The powers of the appeal authority shall not be construed to have
authority to grant variances or waive the requirements for approval of
subdivision, any design or construction standard for subdivision improvements
or any provision of the city's development and construction standards. (Ord.
97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997; amd. Ord. 07-7, 4-24-2007)
10-15F-8: APPLICATION FEES AND CHARGES:
All costs for the processing of subdivision proposals and the administration of
this chapter shall be borne by the subdivider. The city council may, from time
to time, establish by resolution a schedule of fees for that purpose and
provide for the assessment and collection thereof. Such schedule of fees shall
be on file in the city office and open to public inspection during normal
office hours. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-15F-9: DERELICT PARCELS PROHIBITED:
No subdivision plan shall have the effect of creating a derelict parcel. Any
such parcel must be attached to adjacent lots rather than allowed to remain as
an independent parcel. Privately owned protection or retainer strips shall not
be permitted. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-15F-10: UNIMPROVED RESIDUAL LOTS NOT PERMITTED 1 :
No subdivision plan shall have the effect of leaving a residual zoning lot for
which the required subdivision improvements: a) have not been previously
constructed; or b) are not to be included as part of the required improvements
for the proposed subdivision. For purposes of this section, a "residual zoning
lot" shall be construed to include a parcel created by the proposed subdivision
but not included as a lot on the final plat, which qualifies as a zoning lot,
but because of insufficient size, dimension or other limitation is not readily
capable of further division in accordance with the requirements of the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See also definition of "lot, unimproved residual" at section 10-2-2 of
  this title.
10-15F-11: WATER RIGHTS CONVEYED TO CITY; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
   A.   Amount Of Water Rights: As a condition of approval of a subdivision
which proposes to obtain water service from the city water system, the
developer thereof shall convey to the city title to water rights in the amount
of two and six-tenths (2.6) acre feet for each acre of development. The exact
amount required shall be determined by multiplying two and six-tenths (2.6) by
the acreage of the lot(s), or if the intended use will require more than two
and six-tenths (2.6) acre feet per acre per year, the city may require the
conveyance of additional water rights to accommodate the anticipated additional
demand for water. In no case shall less than one and three-tenths (1.3) acre
foot for each dwelling be conveyed to the city.
   B.   Type Of Water Right: The water right proposed for conveyance to the
city shall: 1) be of a type which is capable of ready conversion for domestic
purposes from existing city supply source (i.e., domestic well, natural flow
right); 2) have received approval by the state engineer of a change application
permitting the use of the water for municipal purposes, uses within the city
and diversion of the water from municipal sources; and 3) the owner thereof
shall have executed a warranty deed with the city providing for the actual
conveyance of the water right to the city at the time of final plat approval.
   C.   Water Right Conveyance Classified As Project Improvement: For purposes
of compliance with the terms of the Utah impact fee act, the conveyance of the
water right shall be construed as a project improvement. (Ord. 01-11-13-15, 11-
13-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-2A-2 of this code.
10-15F-12: REIMBURSEMENT FOR OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS; CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Reimbursement shall be allowed for off site improvements which are
required as a condition of approval of a subdivision. Whenever an extension of
any required off site improvement benefits property contiguous to the
extension, other than property owned by the subdivider, the city will enter on
its records the amount of the actual cost of the extension across the benefited
property. The owner of the benefited property shall reimburse the subdivider
the charges assessed against such benefited property for a period of thirty
(30) years from the date of completion and acceptance of the extension by the
city. All reimbursable improvements under this section shall be constructed to
the fullest extent of the improvement, including, but not limited to, full
width and fully improved rights of way.
   B.   The amount of the reimbursement to be paid by a benefited property
shall be determined by an engineer's estimate submitted to the city on a per
linear foot basis. The extension reimbursement charge shall be paid before any
service connection is made to the benefited property and shall be in addition
to all other fees and charges. (Ord. 05-4, 2-22-2005, eff. 3-22-2005)
ARTICLE G. ACCESS DESIGN
SECTION:
10-15G-1: Dwelling Location
10-15G-2: Access Driveways
10-15G-1: DWELLING LOCATION:
   A.   Fire Chief Approval: Any dwelling proposed to be located such that any
part of the structure is further than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the
nearest street, as measured along the centerline of the access driveway, must
be approved by the fire chief prior to a building permit being issued.
   B.   Exception By City Council Required: Any dwelling proposed to be located
such that any part of the structure is further than two hundred feet (200')
from the nearest street, as measured along the centerline of the access
driveway, must be granted an exception by the city council prior to a building
permit being issued.
   C.   Exception Not Permitted: In no event shall any such exception be
granted for the placement of a dwelling to be located more than five hundred
feet (500') from the nearest street as measured along the centerline of the
access driveway. (Ord. 00-9-12-13, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-9-2000)
10-15G-2: ACCESS DRIVEWAYS:
All access driveways having a length greater than one hundred fifty feet
(150'), as measured along the centerline from the street to the nearest point
of the dwelling, shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   All Weather Route: The driveway shall consist of an all weather route,
not less than twenty feet (20') in width, capable of supporting the imposed
load of fire apparatus. Access roads and rights of way shall be maintained by
the property owner, or possessor of the premises, in good condition and repair,
with adequate snow removal so as to provide free and uninhibited access by
emergency vehicles.
   B.   Surface: The driveway surface shall consist of asphalt having a depth
of not less than two and one-half inches (21/2") over a minimum of six inches
(6") of compacted road base, or concrete having a depth of not less than five
inches (5") over a compacted road base. The driveway shall have minimum
vertical clearance of no less than thirteen and one-half feet (131/2').
   C.   Curves: All curves to the driveway shall conform to the minimum
standards set forth under figure 4. Each drive shall terminate with a
turnaround or hammerhead conforming to the requirements set forth, as
applicable in attachments 2 and 3.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1550.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4f4d353e9f1076a59429000c39d91236a481a8c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1552.gif]
(Ord. 00-9-12-13, 9-12-2000, eff. 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 16
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES
SECTION:
10-16-1: Application
10-16-2: Type And Amount Of Guarantee
10-16-3: Duration Of Guarantee
10-16-4: Partial Releases Permitted
10-16-5: Final Disposition And Release
10-16-6: Default
10-16-7: Durability Retainer
10-16-8: Engineering Inspection Bond
10-16-1: APPLICATION:
Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this
development code, said guarantee shall be submitted in conformance with this
chapter. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-16-2: TYPE AND AMOUNT OF GUARANTEE:
All performance guarantees shall be posted in the form of a performance bond,
an escrow account or an irrevocable letter of credit. Whichever form of
performance guarantee is employed for any development project, the performance
guarantee shall be made through an adequate and appropriate agency acceptable
to the city. The amount of the guarantee shall include at least one hundred
percent (100%) of the cost of all materials and labor for the work to be
performed as established by the city engineer and the costs of administration
by the city. (Ord. 04-11, 11-23-2004, eff. 12-23-2004)
10-16-3: DURATION OF GUARANTEE:
The duration of the performance guarantee shall be for the period of time
specified for completion of required improvements (see section
10-15D-2 of this title) and any extensions to such period as may be approved by
the city council. The date of beginning of the durability performance period
(see section
10-16-7 of this chapter) shall be the date of acceptance of the improvement by
the city council. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-16-4: PARTIAL RELEASES PERMITTED:
Where a guarantee is provided for the purpose of ensuring the timely
installation of required improvements, the city may authorize a partial release
of the guarantee. The amount of any partial release shall be in an amount
commensurate with the estimated cost of the completed improvements, as
determined by the city engineer, less a holdback of ten percent (10%). (Ord.
97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-16-5: FINAL DISPOSITION AND RELEASE:
   A.   Request: At the completion of the work, the subdivider shall submit to
the city one copy of a written notice of completion, copies of lien releases
from all suppliers of materials and subcontractors, and a request for release.
Following receipt of the notice and request, the city engineer shall make a
preliminary inspection of the improvements and shall submit a report to the
city council setting forth the condition of such facilities.
   B.   Acceptable Condition: If the condition of said improvements is found to
be satisfactory and all liens are paid, the city council shall act to accept
the improvements and authorize release of the remainder of the guarantee,
except any portion of said performance guarantee intended to be applied as part
of the durability retainer required pursuant to the terms of section
10-16-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Unacceptable Condition: If the condition of material or workmanship
shows unusual depreciation or does not comply with the acceptable standards of
durability, or if there are any outstanding liens, or if any other terms of the
guarantee have not been satisfied, the matter shall be referred to the city
council, and in accordance with the provisions of section
10-16-6 of this chapter, the city council may declare the developer in default
and take such actions as are determined necessary to secure performance. (Ord.
97-7-8-8, 7-8-1997)
10-16-6: DEFAULT:
Where, in the opinion of the city council, a developer fails or neglects to
satisfactorily install the required improvements or make required corrections,
or to pay all liens in connection with said improvements, make payment to the
city for administration and inspections, or otherwise fails in carrying out the
activity for which the performance guarantee was required, the city council
may, after a public hearing with due notice on the matter, declare the
performance guarantee forfeited and thereafter may install or cause the
required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from the guarantee to
defray the costs; provided, that the city shall not be responsible for work
beyond the limits of the bond amount. Any funds remaining after completion of
the required improvements will be returned to the developer. (Ord. 97-7-8-8, 7-
8-1997)
10-16-7: DURABILITY RETAINER:
   A.   At the time of posting the performance guarantee for a development
project, the developer shall also post a durability retainer of not less than
ten percent (10%) of the total amount of the performance guarantee, in the form
of a cash escrow account, irrevocable letter of credit, or a bond letter, and
an additional engineering inspection bond in cash, irrevocable letter of
credit, or a bond letter, including a surety bond, to cover engineering
services. Whichever form of bonding is utilized, the following wording must be
included: "payable upon demand of the city" and "the bond will only be released
with proper authorization from the city council". When there is not a
performance guarantee, the durability retainer shall be calculated as ten
percent (10%), or equaling the maximum percentage required by state code at the
time the guarantee agreement is executed, of the engineer's original estimated
cost of completion or applicant's reasonable proven cost of completion. (Ord.
14-2, 3-11-2014)
   B.   The durability retainer and engineering coverage are to be retained by
the city for a period of not less than one year following the date of final
acceptance of the improvements by the city. Such retainer shall be a guarantee
of the durability of said improvements. If during the one year period, the
durability of said improvements is found by the city to be satisfactory, said
retainer may be released following the procedure outlined under section
10-16-5 of this chapter. If however, during said period, the condition,
materials or workmanship of the improvements, whether in whole or in part,
fails or shows unusual depreciation, or if it becomes evident that certain work
was not completed, or that said improvements do not otherwise comply with
accepted standards of durability, said condition shall be corrected by the
person responsible for the performance guarantee. If the corrections are not
made within a reasonable time, as outlined within section
10-15D-2 of this title, the city council, in accordance with section
10-16-6 of this chapter, may declare such person in default and hire a separate
contractor to construct or correct the necessary improvements using the
retainer to defray the cost of any required work, administration and inspection
costs. At the conclusion of the durability guarantee period, the retainer may
be released by the city in accordance with the release procedure outlined under
section
10-16-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-1, 1-13-2009, eff. 2-3-2009)
10-16-8: ENGINEERING INSPECTION BOND:
   A.   The following tiered rate structure shall be used to determine the
amount of the engineering inspection bond: Developer shall pay city all
engineering and inspection fees required for each development project at the
rate of six percent (6%) of the value of the bonded improvements up to one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) of the bonded improvements, but in no case
shall the fee be less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Also if the bonded
improvements in a particular development project exceed one million dollars
($1,000,000.00), the engineering and inspection fees for that portion exceeding
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) shall be at the rate of three percent (3%).
Developer shall also pay an administration fee of five percent (5%) of the
engineering and inspection fee. Upon final inspection and acceptance of the
development project by city, developer shall provide the city all engineering
and inspection fees required for the one year durability period for each
development project at the rate of five percent (5%) of the durability bond but
in no case shall the fee be less than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 14-
2, 3-11-2014)
CHAPTER 17
ANNEXATIONS
SECTION:
10-17-1: Title And Intent
10-17-2: Procedure For Approval
10-17-3: Conditions Of Annexation
10-17-4: Fees
10-17-1: TITLE AND INTENT:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be entitled the ANNEXATION ORDINANCE OF ELK
RIDGE CITY, UTAH, and may be so cited and pleaded. In addition, the provisions
of this chapter, as may from time to time be amended, are hereby included in
and shall constitute part of the development code of the city.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this chapter is to set forth a procedure
consistent with Utah Code Annotated section 10-2-401 et seq., as amended, which
both property owners and municipal officials may use to facilitate desirable
annexations to the city and to outline the conditions which must be complied
with in accomplishing the same. Annexations are legislative in nature. The city
is not required to accept a petition for annexation even though the petitioners
may comply with all provisions required for annexation.
   C.   Annexation Policy Plan: As per Utah Code Annotated section 10-2-401.5,
the city has established and adopted a formal annexation policy plan as a part
of the general plan. (Ord. 01-12-11-25, 12-18-2001, eff. 1-18-2002)
10-17-2: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
The procedure for hearings and potential approval of annexations and annexation
petitions shall conform in whole to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-2-402 through 10-2-426. (Ord. 01-12-11-25, 12-18-2001, eff. 1-18-
2002)
10-17-3: CONDITIONS OF ANNEXATION:
   A.   Water Rights To Be Conveyed:
      1.   Intent: It is intended that land annexed to the city be accompanied
by water rights, sufficient in amount to satisfy the needs of the existing and
future occupants of the annexed territory. The water rights conveyance
requirements of this section shall be considered solely as condition and
requirement of annexation.
      2.   Amount Of Water Rights Required: Any person annexing land into the
city shall convey to the city, at the designated time, title to water rights
having both a quantity and flow which is sufficient in amount to meet the water
use requirements of future development, as follows:
         a.   Residential Use Requirements: Water rights for indoor and outdoor
use for each potential lot or dwelling unit shall be determined by the city
using standard engineering practices and state requirements. Outdoor use will
include, but not be limited to, the space contained within a building lot
excluding the building footprint, hard surface patios or decks, driveway and
walkway, nonirrigated areas, and roadway.
         b.   Other Use Requirements: Sufficient water to satisfy the projected
needs of the development as determined by the city using standard engineering
practices and state requirements. Other uses may include retail and commercial
development, and parks and open spaces.
         c.   Water Rights Determination: The amount of water rights required
for conveyance to the city shall be determined by:
            (1)   The terms of any concurrent annexation concept plan, if
required as a condition of annexation, or
            (2)   The terms of the annexation agreement (if addressed therein),
or
            (3)   The lot area requirements for the zone classification
proposed for the annexation area, or
            (4)   The final proposed development plat.
         d.   Additional Water Rights: Additional water rights may be required
for conveyance to the city prior to final plat approval for any deficiencies in
the amount of water rights determined prior to the final proposed development
plat.
      3.   Type Of Water Rights Acceptable To City: The type of water rights
proposed for conveyance to the city shall be of a type which is capable of
ready conversion for municipal purposes from existing city supply sources, and
may include one or a combination of the following:
         a.   Irrigation Water Stock Or Water Rights: Sufficient water rights
to provide the amount of water required for area after adjustment by the state
engineer.
         b.   Well Rights: The right to the withdrawal of water from a well
source.
         c.   In Lieu Purchase Of Surplus City Acquired Water Rights: An in
lieu cash payment for the assignment of the right to utilize surplus city
acquired water rights previously acquired by the city for purpose, if
available. Utilization of the option shall be in accordance with the terms of
the then policy regarding purchase of the surplus city acquired water rights.
      4.   City To Evaluate Rights Proposed For Conveyance: Prior to acceptance
of a water right proposed for conveyance to the city, the city shall evaluate
the characteristics of the right and may refuse to accept any right which it
believes to be insufficient in amount or flow or not readily capable of use and
conversion for municipal purposes.
         a.   Change Application: Where, in the opinion of the city council,
the conversion of municipal purposes of a water right proposed for transfer is
uncertain, the city may require that a change application, quantifying the
amount of water and approving its use for municipal purposes, shall have been
submitted and approved by the state engineer.
         b.   Statement Of Agreement From Irrigation Company: In addition,
where the proposed right consists of shares of stock in an irrigation company,
the city may require that the applicant also provide a statement from the
irrigation company agreeing to the conversion of the shares for municipal
purposes.
      5.   Exceptions And Adjustments To Water Rights Conveyance Requirements:
         a.   Lands Restricted Against Future Development: Where the annexation
contains lands which, as a result of topographic extremes or other unique
conditions, will be permanently restricted from development or other activity
requiring the use of city provided water, the city may waive the water rights
conveyance requirements; provided, that the restriction against future use of
water is secured through the deeding of the development rights to the public or
other legal device acceptable to the city.
         b.   Lands Owned By Nonsignatory Owners: Whenever land is annexed
without the consent of the owner, the conveyance of water rights by the
nonsignatory owners will not be required at the time of annexation; provided,
however, that the ordinance annexing the territory shall note all parcels
annexed without the owner's consent and shall provide that future development
of these lands will require the conveyance of water rights prior to the
granting of any approval of development or the issuance of a building permit.
The city may also file a notice of interest to the effect for each parcel so
annexed, and may maintain a map showing all parcels which have been annexed
without satisfying the water rights requirements. (Ord. 11-05, 5-24-2011, eff.
6-9-2011)
         c.   Existing Uses: The city council may allow the conveyance of only
the necessary water required to serve the existing uses based upon the city's
calculated needs if:
            (1)   It can be shown that the area is built out, or
            (2)   The landowner has no water beyond what is necessary to serve
the land in its current use and is not proposing to alter the existing use or
develop the land to a more intensive use at the time of annexation.
      6.   Time Of Conveyance: The conveyance of title to water rights to the
city shall occur:
         a.   Prior to the recording of the annexation for the necessary water
to serve existing uses, and
         b.   Prior to final plat approval for new development. (Ord. 14-1, 3-
11-2014)
   B.   Conveyance Of Land For Park Or Other Public Purpose:
      1.   Intent: It is the intent of this subsection to provide a method
whereby the city may acquire such lands, or interest therein, as are considered
necessary to adequately accommodate the needs of existing and subsequent
occupants of the land proposed for annexation, and also the general public, for
street, park, trail, flood control and/or other similar purpose. Any conveyance
of land, or interest therein to the city pursuant to this subsection, shall be
considered solely as a condition and requirement of annexation, except as
provided under subsection B4 of this section.
      2.   Conveyance Of Land May Be Required: All persons annexing territory
to the city shall, as a condition of annexation, convey to the city fee title
(or easement where applicable) to such lands as are determined essential for
street, park and open space, trails, flood control, fire control, and similar
purposes.
      3.   Time Of Conveyance: For all parcels signatory to the petition, the
conveyance of the title to lands shall occur prior to the time of recording the
annexation plat.
      4.   Conveyance To Be Consistent With Impact Fee Ordinance: Where the
land conveyed pursuant to the terms of this subsection is for a purpose
included within the terms of the city's impact fee ordinance, the conveyance
shall be accounted for and credited to the owner as an offset against the
impact fee, pursuant to the terms of said impact fee ordinance.
   C.   Annexation Agreement Authorized; Approved By Council:
      1.   Annexation Agreement: In order to more fully implement the terms,
conditions and understandings in connection with an annexation of land to the
city, the city council may, but under no circumstances is required to, enter
into agreements hereinafter to be known as annexation agreements between the
applicant (and any successor in interest) and the city, and shall contain such
terms and conditions as agreed to as conditions of annexation. (Ord. 01-12-11-
25, 12-18-2001, eff. 1-18-2002)
      2.   Legal Review; Negotiations: The mayor, city attorney, zoning
administrator, city planner, city engineer and/or any member of the city
council, when authorized to do so by said body, may negotiate the terms and
conditions of annexation agreements on behalf of the city; provided, that all
annexation agreements shall be reviewed for legal sufficiency by the city
attorney and submitted to the planning commission for its review and
recommendation thereon prior to a final approval or disapproval by the city
council. (Ord. 01-12-11-25, 12-18-2001, eff. 1-18-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Other Conditions: The city council may attach other conditions, as it
may deem to be necessary for the general welfare of the city, as a prerequisite
to the annexation of any land. (Ord. 01-12-11-25, 12-18-2001, eff. 1-18-2002)
10-17-4: FEES:
The applicant shall be responsible for the costs of processing annexation
requests as set forth below:
   A.   Petition Review And Processing Fee: A petition review and processing
fee in an amount as may be fixed by resolution of the city council shall be
submitted to the city recorder with each annexation request.
   B.   Annexation Plat Preparation Fee: In the event that the annexation plat
for a specific annexation petition is prepared by the city, the city shall be
entitled to assess the costs incurred in the preparation thereof to the
petitioners.
   C.   Protest Study Fee: In the event that an annexation petition is
protested and requires the appointment of a feasibility consultant and
preparation of a feasibility study by the boundary commission, the city shall
assess the costs incurred by the city in the conduct of the feasibility study
upon the petitioners. (Ord. 01-12-11-25, 12-18-2001, eff. 1-18-2002)
CHAPTER 18
LAND USE ANIMAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Intent
10-18-2: Purpose
10-18-3: Existing Animal Uses
10-18-4: Not Permitted
10-18-5: Animal Limitations
10-18-6: Livestock Animals
10-18-7: Definitions
10-18-1: INTENT:
This chapter establishes the land use regulations for animal uses and
possession within the limits of the City of Elk Ridge. The regulations within
this chapter are intended to support the animal control regulations found in
title 5, chapter 2 of the City Code, if a difference or conflict in Code is
found the more stringent shall apply. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-18-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that animals may be kept within the
City in a manner that does not jeopardize the health or safety of its
residents, property, other animals or cause a nuisance. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-18-3: EXISTING ANIMAL USES:
The keeping of any animal which existed lawfully prior to the effective date
hereof which is not allowed under this chapter, may be continued as a
nonconforming use, except that if the nonconforming use is discontinued for one
year or more it shall then be deemed abandoned and any future keeping of
animals shall be in conformity with this chapter. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-18-4: NOT PERMITTED:
   A.   The following is not permitted in Elk Ridge City:
      1.   Vicious animals as listed in title 5, chapter 2 of the City Code or
this chapter.
      2.   Wild animals as listed in title 5, chapter 2 of the City Code or
this chapter.
      3.   Any animal creating a nuisance as defined by title 5, chapter 2 of
the City Code or this chapter.
      4.   Animal abuse as defined by title 5, chapter 2 of the City Code or
this chapter.
      5.   Any diseased animal.
      6.   Any unvaccinated animal as defined by title 5, chapter 2 of the City
Code or this chapter.
      7.   Pigs, male goats (non-neutered), and mink. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-18-5: ANIMAL LIMITATIONS:
No person shall keep, house or maintain in or upon the premises of any
residential dwelling unit more animals than can be properly maintained in a
healthy condition without presenting a health or safety hazard to any persons,
other animals, themselves, or than can be properly maintained without
constituting a nuisance to the occupants and of neighboring properties.
   TABLE 10-18-A
   PERMITTED ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS ON
   RESIDENTIAL LOTS WITHOUT LIVESTOCK RIGHTS1
Species4 Points2,3 Minimum Enclosure Or Dedicated Habitat Per Animal/Per Square
                   Foot
Species4                   Points2,3 Minimum Enclosure Or Dedicated Habitat Per
                                     Animal/Per Square Foot
Cats (maximum 3 per acre5) 55        8
Dogs (maximum 3 per acre5) 105       25
Hen chickens               2.5       5
Pigeons                    0.5       2
Ducks                      5         5
Pheasants                  2.5       2
Rabbits                    2.5       2
Chukar                     2.5       2
Quail                      2.5       2
 
Notes:
   1.    100 points are allowed per acre, prorate per fractional acreage.
   2.    Every lot may have 2 pets from the above table regardless of lot size.
However, these animals will apply towards total points. Indoor pets included in
this table count towards total points.
   3.    Service animals do not count towards the lot points.
   4.    Exotic animals allowed with a license from the State of Utah and all
the licensing requirements are met.
   5.    Cats and dogs are limited to a total of no more than 3 per acre.
(Beyond the initial 2 animals allowed by Code each additional cat or dog is
allowed only on parcels containing a full 1/3 acre of property per animal
beginning with 1 full acre.)
   TABLE 10-18-B
   PERMITTED ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS ON
   PROPERTY WITH LIVESTOCK OR GRAZING RIGHTS1,2
Species5 Points3,4 Minimum Enclosure Or Dedicated Habitat Per Animal/Per Square
                   Foot
Species5                   Points3,4 Minimum Enclosure Or Dedicated Habitat Per
                                     Animal/Per Square Foot
Cats (maximum 3 per acre6) 5         8
Dogs (maximum 3 per acre6) 10        25
Chickens7                  2.5       5
Pigeons                    0.5       2
Ducks                      5         5
Pheasants                  2.5       2
Rabbits                    2.5       2
Chukar                     2.5       2
Quail                      2.5       2
Cattle                     25        10,890
Horse                      25        10,890
Sheep                      12.5      5,445
Goat (female or neutered)  20        5,445
Ostrich, emu               12.5      5,445
Alpaca, llama              20        5,445
Mule, donkey               20        8,000
Turkey7                    2.5       15
 
Notes:
   1.    Table should not be used as a guideline for the feed/water/shelter and
care of the animals.
   2.    100 points are allowed per acre, prorate per fractional acreage.
   3.    Every livestock zoned lot may have 2 pets from the above table 10-18-
B regardless of lot size. However, these animals will apply towards total
points. Indoor pets included in this table 10-18-B count towards total points.
   4.    Service animals do not count towards the lot points.
   5.    Exotic animals allowed with a license from the State of Utah and all
the licensing requirements are met.
   6.    Cats and dogs are limited to a total of no more than 3 per acre.
(Beyond the initial 2 animals allowed by Code each additional cat or dog is
allowed only on parcels containing a full 1/3 acre of property per animal
beginning with 1 full acre.)
   7.    Only 1 rooster/tom permitted for every 10 hens.
Enclosures and habitat for grazing animals shall not be permitted within
property setbacks.
Animal calculations found in tables 10-18-A and 10-18-B of this section do not
include newborn animals. Newborn animals are not included in limit calculations
until they have been weaned plus two (2) additional months. Once any animal is
six (6) months old they must be included in animal limit calculations. Owners
may keep up to a number of animals per table 10-18-A or 10-18-B of this section
as applicable to the zoning.
Living areas for all animals must be located closer to the owner's residential
building than to neighboring residential buildings.
   A.   Chicken, Ducks, Pheasants, Turkeys, Chukar, Ostrich, Emu, And Quail
Requirements:
      1.   The coop/feeding and pen areas must be maintained and cleaned
regularly to avoid odor.
      2.   The coop/feeding and pen areas must be closer to the owner's
residential building than neighboring residential buildings.
      3.   Feed must be kept in a container that prevents vermin.
      4.   All feces and odor shall be kept within the confines of the owner's
property, and shall not be reasonably noticeable to neighbors.
      5.   The coop/feeding area and pen area shall be maintained in a manner
to prevent odor or feces from becoming a nuisance to neighboring properties.
   B.   Pigeon Requirements: The owning or breeding of pigeons is allowed for
noncommercial use where permitted by the City zoning ordinance:
      1.   Pigeons must be kept and maintained in a loft constructed to prevent
escape.
         a.   The loft shall be constructed to contain the feces that can be
maintained in a sanitary manner.
         b.   All feeding shall be within the confines of the loft. Feed shall
be stored in rodentproof containers.
      2.   Each pigeon shall wear a leg band to identify the owner or keeper
thereof. All records shall be open for inspection by the animal control
officer.
      3.   The loft/feeding area must be closer to the owner's residential
building than neighboring residential buildings.
      4.   Pigeons shall be kept in the loft except for exercise, training and
racing.
         a.   Pigeons shall not be allowed to linger on buildings or property
other than the owner's.
         b.   Pigeons shall be permitted to exercise twice a day under the
control of the owner or keeper.
         c.   Pigeons shall not be released for exercise if they have been fed
within the last four (4) hours.
         d.   Feces and odor shall be kept within the confines of the owner's
property, and shall not be reasonably noticeable to neighbors.
         e.   The loft interior shall be maintained in a manner to prevent odor
or feces from becoming a nuisance to neighboring properties.
      5.   Pigeon owners will assist the animal control officer in controlling
the feral pigeon population within the City. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
10-18-6: LIVESTOCK ANIMALS:
As listed in section
10-18-5, table 10-18-B of this chapter, livestock animals are allowed based on
the land area of the lot and land provided for the livestock management area.
Shown on section
10-18-5, table 10-18-B of this chapter are the land use limits for the types of
animals, animals allowed, size of the livestock animal management area, and
setbacks to adjacent residential structures.
   A.   Management Area: All portions of a lot devoted exclusively to the care
and keeping of livestock shall be considered the livestock animal management
area. No portion of a lot devoted to a dwelling, yard, lawn, parking area,
nonanimal related accessory structure can be included in the management area.
(Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017; amd. Ord. 21-04, 2-9-2021)
10-18-7: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, each of the following words and phrases shall
have the following meaning:
ANIMAL: Birds, reptiles, and mammals other than the genus Homo sapiens. An
animal's offspring shall be considered a separate unit upon completion of
weaning.
CAGES: Individual, portable facilities for containing animals.
FENCING: Unless otherwise authorized, shall mean a good grade commercial chain-
link, carried on solid posts set in concrete; suggested minimum is 11-gauge
wire, two inch (2") steel posts set on no greater than ten foot (10') spans.
INDOOR HOUSEHOLD PET: Smaller animals such as a domesticated rodent, fish,
parrot, parakeet, canary, guinea pig, hamster, nonpoisonous reptile, turtles,
dogs, cats or any other animal that can be purchased in a licensed Utah pet
store and has its whole source of water, food, and sleeping area inside the
living quarters of the owner's residence. An animal that primarily remains
inside.
LIVESTOCK: All animals of the equine, bovine, or fowl, including goats, sheep,
mules, horses, cattle, and other grazing animals, and all ratites, including,
but not limited to, ostriches, emus, and rheas. (Ord. 17-9, 9-26-2017)
