ELWOOD, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-005, passed 7-9-2024
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Captions
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Numbering ordinances
   
10.19   Statutes or codes included and excluded
   
10.20   Purposes and principles of construction
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances contained in this code, and all ordinances of a general
nature hereafter adopted and inserted herein, and all amendments, additions,
and changes thereto, shall be part of this code and shall be known, and cited,
as the “Revised Ordinances of Elwood City.”
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Application to future ordinances. All provisions of Title I compatible
with future legislation shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or
supplementing this code unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   Offenses defined in this code.
      (1)   Application of code. The provisions of this code shall govern the
construction of, the punishment for, and the defense against any offense
defined in this code or, except where otherwise specifically provided or the
context otherwise requires, any offense defined outside this code, if the
offense was committed after the effective date of this code.
      (2)   Offenses prior to effective date. Any offense committed prior to
the effective date of this code shall be governed by the ordinances of this
municipality existing at the time of commission thereof, except that a defense,
or limitation, on punishment available under this code shall be available to
any defendant tried, or retried, after the effective date. An offense under
this code shall be deemed to have been committed prior to the effective date of
this code if any of the elements of the offense occurred prior to the effective
date.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously-existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly-enacted laws. Any previously-existing law, or amendment
thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed, or amended, subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously-existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this, or any subsequent, codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of the ordinances of this municipality, the following
rules and definitions shall be observed and applied unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of these ordinances.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and
understood according to the common use and understanding of the language; the
technical words and phrases, and such other words and phrases as may have
acquired a particular meaning in law, shall be construed, and understood,
according to such particular meaning.
      (2)   Gender - singular and plural. Unless otherwise indicated from the
context of the ordinance, all words used in the singular shall include the
plural, and all words used in the masculine gender shall extend to, and apply
to, the feminine gender.
      (3)   Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the
future and past tense when applicable.
      (4)   Joint authority. Words imputing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons,
unless otherwise declared in the section giving the authority.
      (5)   Acts. Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an
agent or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of
the act by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation,
or enterprise for which a license is required by any ordinance of this
municipality.
      CITY. The City of Elwood, Utah.
      CITY COUNCIL. As used throughout this code, means the legislative body of
the City of Elwood.
      CITY HALL/CITY OFFICE. The location where city business is generally
conducted, 5235 West 8800 North, Elwood UT 84337.
      CITY MARSHAL or MARSHAL. As used in this code, all have the same meaning
and may be used interchangeably.
      CLERK. The individual appointed to act as the Clerk of the City of
Elwood.
      COUNTY. Box Elder, Utah.
      HIGHWAY or ROAD. Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the
words “county way,” “county road,” “common road,” and “state road.”
      LICENSE. Includes any certificate or license issued by this municipality.
      LOCATION. Whenever any act, conduct, or offense is prohibited, or
required, and no reference is made to location, unless the context specifically
indicates otherwise, the act, conduct, or offense prohibited, or required,
shall be within the boundaries of this municipality.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OFFENSE. Any act, action, or conduct prohibited by this code, or the
failure to perform any acts required in this code.
      OFFICER or OFFICIALS. As used in this code, means any elected or
appointed person employed by the municipality, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or lessee of a whole, or part, of such
building or land.
      PERSON. Includes all individuals, both male and female; any governmental
agency; corporation; partnership; association; company; and every other form of
organization, whether formed voluntarily or involuntarily.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      STATE. The State of Utah.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks, and
intersections.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall apply to any
person who occupies all, or any part of, such building or land, either alone or
with others.
      WEEK. Any seven-day period.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional, or without effect, by any final
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment or
decree shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs, and sections of this code.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the City
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government and that name
designation is incorrectly stated, on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are, or were, transferred to a different entity; then, the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly-named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no meaning
can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or words,
was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made, or permitted, if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   Reasonable time. In all cases where any ordinance required that an act
be done in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such
REASONABLE TIME FOR SUCH NOTICE shall be deemed to mean such time as may be
necessary for the expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
   (B)   Time; how computed. The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in any ordinance or any resolution, or order, of this municipality,
when expressed in days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and
including the last day, except if the last day is a Sunday or a holiday, then
the last day shall be the day next following such Sunday or holiday which is
not a Sunday or holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sundays and all
holidays shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   Repeal of existing ordinances.
      (1)   So far as the provisions of this code are the same as those of
previously-existing ordinances, they shall be construed as continuations
thereof. All ordinances and resolutions of this municipality heretofore in
force, except such as are of a private, local, or temporary nature, including
franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues, elections, and special levies for
local assessments, hereby are repealed except as otherwise provided in division
(A)(2) below.
      (2)   Those ordinances of this municipality which are of a general nature
which are not repealed and which the City Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to insert in the appropriate place in this code, and which shall be
deemed part of this code are: none.
      (3)   The fees or charges established by the ordinances repealed by this
code of revised ordinances shall remain in effect until subsequently changed by
ordinance or resolution, except that the fees and charges established by this
code shall prevail in the event of a conflict.
   (B)   Effect of repealing ordinances. The repeal of the ordinances, as
provided in division (A) above, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under, or by virtue of, the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and re-enactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions
for causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code
may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 CAPTIONS.
   The captions in this code immediately preceding each section are intended as
mere captions to indicate the content of the section, and shall not be deemed,
or taken to be part of, the sections.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(UCA §             )
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see UCA §             
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
   (B)   Whenever this code or any ordinance of this city requires that an act
be done, or prohibits an action by any officer, employee, or agent of this
city, the failure to perform the act, or the performance of the act prohibited,
shall not create any liability on the city or the officer.
§ 10.18 NUMBERING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, insofar as possible, assign all ordinances of a
general nature adopted after these revised ordinances a number which shall
conform to the numbering system used in this code, and shall indicate upon the
face of the ordinance the date adopted.
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private, or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues, and
tax levies, in a separate book of “Special Ordinances,” properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted.
      (2)   The first number of such an ordinance shall be the last two digits
of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed by a dash which is followed by a
number which shall be a sequential, ascending number indicating the order in
which such special ordinance was adopted during the year.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section shall not affect, or render
invalid, any ordinance of this municipality.
§ 10.19 STATUTES OR CODES INCLUDED AND EXCLUDED.
   Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or
construed to include, incorporate, or make the citation, or statute, part of
this code unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate,
or make the citation, or statute, part of this code by reference or
incorporation, and any such reference or citation not specifically included or
incorporated may be changed, amended, or deleted without publication on an
order of the governing body.
§ 10.20 PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this code shall be construed in accordance with these
general purposes to:
   (A)   Forbid and prevent the commission of offenses;
   (B)   Define adequately the conduct and mental state which constitute each
offense, and safeguard conduct without fault from condemnation as criminal;
   (C)   Prescribe penalties which are proportionate to the seriousness of
offenses and which permit recognition of differences in rehabilitation
possibilities among individual offenders; and
   (D)   Prevent arbitrary or oppressive treatment of persons accused or
convicted of offenses.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this code for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be subject
to the fines, imprisonment, or other penalties that apply to a conviction of a
Class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-301(1)(d) or, if the violation would
constitute a Class C misdemeanor, then the lesser Class C fines pursuant to UCA
§ 76-3-301(1)(e), imprisonment, or other penalties. If the violation would
constitute an infraction, then the person shall be subject to the lesser fines,
or other penalties, for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-205.
      (2)   Any firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to the fines, imprisonment, or other penalties which apply to a
conviction of a Class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(3) or, if the
violation would constitute a Class C misdemeanor, then the lesser Class C fines
pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(4) or other penalties. If the violation would
constitute an infraction, then the firm or corporation shall be subject to the
fines, or other penalties, for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302
(4).
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   If a penalty for a violation of an ordinance includes any possibility
of imprisonment, the county shall, under UCA § 78B-22-301, provide for indigent
defense services, as that term is defined in UCA § 78B-22-102.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
32.   FEES AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
30.01   Establishment of Commission
   
30.02   Terms and eligibility of members
   
30.03   Powers and duties
   
30.04   Organization and rules of procedure
   
30.05   Meetings and procedures
   
30.06   Quorum
   
30.07   Conformance with General Plan
   
30.08   Conflicts within code
Appeal Authority
   
30.20   Establishment of Appeal Authority
   
30.21   Term of office
   
30.22   Resignation or grounds for removal
   
30.23   Powers and duties
   
30.24   Appeals
   
30.25   Variance
   
30.26   Time to appeal
   
30.27   Application for variance review
   
30.28   Hearing
   
30.29   Persons entitled to appear
   
30.30   Decision
   
30.31   Judicial review of decision
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created a Planning Commission to be composed of five voting
members and may appoint one alternate member. Members of the Planning
Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
City Council. The alternate members shall be utilized as voting members when
needed to maintain a quorum. Appointments to the Planning Commission shall be
made on a basis which fairly represents the interests of all residents of the
city. Members and alternate members will be given copies of the city’s General
Plan and the city’s Land Management and Development Code.
   (B)   The City Council may fix per diem compensation for the members and
alternate members of the Planning Commission, based on necessary and reasonable
expenses and on meetings actually attended.
§ 30.02 TERMS AND ELIGIBILITY OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission members shall consist of residents who own a
primary residence and/or property within the city and shall have resided within
the city for at least 90 days prior to being appointed. Members are deemed to
have resigned when they move their residences outside the city limits. At least
three of the five members shall hold no other public office or position within
the city.
   (B)   Members of the Planning Commission shall serve terms of five years.
Members shall be appointed every year in December of the year of the
expiration. The terms shall be staggered so that one member shall be appointed
each year. Terms may expire on the last day of the year, but members on the
Planning Commission shall continue to serve until their successors are
appointed and qualified. The Mayor shall appoint a new Planning Commission
member to fill vacancies that might arise and such appointments shall be to the
end of the vacating member’s term.
   (C)   Alternate members of the Planning Commission shall serve a three-year
term. Terms will end in December of the year of expiration, but the members
shall continue to serve until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   (D)   Minutes of the monthly meetings will be given to the alternate member
so that they can be aware of the actions of the Planning Commission. New
members and alternate member will be required to receive training from the
Planning Commission Chairperson. Alternate member shall attend one meeting
after being appointed, and thereafter will need only to attend Commission
meetings on request. Regular members of the Planning Commission should give at
least 48-hour notice to the alternate members, when needed.
   (E)   The Planning Commission existing at the time of passage of the
ordinance codified herein shall continue to serve, and the terms of its members
shall be fixed by the City Council in such a manner as to comply with the above
provision of staggering terms of service.
   (F)   There is no limit to the number of terms a member may serve. Upon a
majority vote in a public meeting, the City Council may remove from office any
member or alternate member of the Planning Commission for nonperformance of
duty or misconduct. Nonexcused absence from three consecutive regular Planning
Commission meetings or a total of four meetings in a calendar year shall
constitute nonperformance of duty. Misconduct is failure to follow the
Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, being UCA §§ 10-3-1301 et seq.,
and/or failure to follow state and local laws.
§ 30.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have authority to:
   (A)   Prepare and recommend a General Plan and amendments to the General
Plan to the City Council;
   (B)   Prepare and recommend to the City Council land codes and maps, which
conform to the provisions of the General Plan adopted by the City Council;
   (C)   Administer provisions of the land codes, where specifically provided
for in the land code ordinance adopted by the City Council;
   (D)   Review and consider applications for all subdivisions and recommend
final plat approval, denial, or approval with conditions to the City Council;
   (E)   Conduct such public hearings as required by law or as may be deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission;
   (F)   Hear and decide any matters designated by the City Council, including:
      (1)   The approval or denial of conditional use permits;
      (2)   Determination of existence, expansion, modification, and the like
of nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures; and
      (3)   Official classification, sketch plat, and preliminary plat approval
of subdivisions.
   (G)   Prepare and recommend to the City Council, subdivision regulations and
amendments to those regulations, which conform to the provisions of the General
Plan adopted by the City Council;
   (H)   Prepare an application process that:
      (1)   May include a designation of routine land use matters, which upon
application and proper notice, will receive streamlined review and action if
the application is uncontested; and
      (2)   Shall protect the right of each:
         (a)   Applicant and third party to require formal consideration of any
application by a land use authority;
         (b)   Applicant, adversely affected party, or municipal officer or
employee to appeal a land use authority’s decision to a separate Appeal
Authority; and
         (c)   Participant to be heard in each public hearing on a contested
application.
   (I)   Employ experts and a staff as may be reasonable and necessary for
carrying out the duties of the Planning Commission, but not in excess of such
sums as may be appropriated by the City Council and/or which may be placed at
the disposal of the Planning Commission by gift or otherwise;
   (J)   Enter upon any land, public or private, at reasonable times to make
examinations or surveys pertinent to the preparation of its General Plan or
preparation of its land use ordinances;
   (K)   Advise on annexation applications;
   (L)   Advise on Annexation Policy Plan;
   (M)   Advise on amendments to platted streets;
   (N)   Recommend subdivision plat changes; and
   (O)   Exercise other powers that are necessary to enable it to perform its
function pursuant to UCA Title 10 or that are delegated to it by the City
Council.
§ 30.04 ORGANIZATION AND RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt such rules that it deems necessary
for the conduct of its proceedings. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at
the call of the Chairperson or two Commission members and at such times as the
Planning Commission may determine. The Planning Commission shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions all of which shall immediately be filed
in the office of the City Recorder and shall be a public record. All meetings
shall be recorded and shall be kept as required by state code.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, at its regular meeting in January of each
year, shall elect from among its members a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson,
whose terms shall be one year. Any member may be re-elected for an additional
term as Chairperson or Vice Chairperson. There is no limit to the number of
terms a member may serve as Chairperson or Vice Chairperson. If for any reason
the position of Chairperson or Vice Chairperson is vacated before the elected
member’s term has expired, the Planning Commission shall elect from among its
members a successor, who shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
The Chairperson will direct or may designate a Commission member, usually the
Vice Chairperson, to direct Commission meetings. The Chairperson or designee
may participate in any discussion but shall have no vote except in case of a
tie vote by the members of the Commission. The Chairperson must vote if only
three voting Planning Commission members are present (including the
Chairperson) at any given meeting.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may appoint a secretary to keep minutes, post
agendas of meetings and/or hearings, and further assist the Commission as
needed. The Secretary may be paid for services rendered as agreed upon by the
City Council.
§ 30.05 MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Meetings. The Planning Commission shall meet as necessary and at such
times as the Planning Commission may determine. Regular scheduled meetings
shall be held at the City Hall or other places if circumstances require it.
Meetings shall be held in accordance with the provisions of UCA Title 52, Ch. 4
as amended, or any successor statute enacted in its place. The Commission will
be familiar with and abide by the rules set forth in the Municipal Officers’
and Employees’ Ethics Act, UCA §§ 10-3-1301 et seq.
   (B)   Agenda. An agenda shall be prepared, posted, and followed.
      (1)   Any item to be considered must be communicated to the Planning
Commission Secretary at lease 48 hours prior to a scheduled meeting along with
any supporting materials to be considered for placement on the agenda.
      (2)   Agenda items shall be restricted to those matters approved by the
Chairperson or two members of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   All items to be considered and voted on must be on the agenda.
      (4)   Matters not on the agenda that are raised during a meeting may be
discussed, but no decision may be called for or voted on.
      (5)   Meeting agendas must be posted at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting at the building where the meeting is to be held, on the state’s public
notice website, or three public locations.
   (C)   Opening ceremony. Planning Commission meetings may start with the
Pledge of Allegiance, an opening prayer, or other ceremony.
   (D)   Conducting the meeting.
      (1)   The Chairperson (or his, her, or their designee; generally the Vice
Chairperson) will conduct Commission meetings. The Chairperson is to maintain
control of the meeting and to expect that those in attendance conduct
themselves in an orderly fashion.
      (2)   The Chairperson has the right to ask someone to leave the meeting,
or to have someone removed for disorderly conduct.
   (E)   Procedure; motions. 
      (1)   Any Commissioner, except the Chairperson, may make or second a
motion.
      (2)   The minutes of the meeting should reflect findings or reasons for
the motion.
      (3)   Motions should be clear and brief as possible.
      (4)   A motion to table an agenda item for further study should be
accompanied by a specific reason for continuing the matter and whenever
possible, a specific date to rehear the matter should be scheduled.
      (5)   A motion for a recess shall be permitted for a specific purpose
while also stipulating a specific time to reconvene the meeting, the time to
reconvene must be during the meeting in which the motion to recess was made.
      (6)   A motion to adjourn the meeting is made at the end of each Planning
Commission meeting, unless adjourning is on the agenda then the meeting can be
adjourned without a motion, a second is required and a voted taken before the
meeting is adjourned.
   (F)   Conflict of interest. If the member feels he, she, or they must
abstain from voting on a matter, then he, she, or they shall not participate in
the discussion/deliberation unless requested by another member of the Planning
Commission.
   (G)   Citizen input. 
      (1)   The Chairperson may allow for a time at the end of the agenda or
during the meeting for citizen input or comment on items not on the agenda.
      (2)   Time may be limited to no more than five minutes per topic.
   (H)   Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall attend the
Planning Commission meetings as well as assist and advise the commission when
necessary.
§ 30.06 QUORUM.
   Three members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum. An
alternate member may be counted as part of the membership for a quorum. A
majority of the voting members present at a meeting at which a quorum is
present shall be required for any action. No less than three yes votes are
required for passage of any action.
§ 30.07 CONFORMANCE WITH GENERAL PLAN.
   (A)   Upon adoption of the General Plan by the City Council, thereafter, no
street, park, or other public way, ground, place or space, no public building
or structure, and no public utility, whether publicly or privately owned, shall
be constructed or authorized until and unless the location and extent thereof
shall conform to the General Plan, and shall have been submitted to and
approved by the Planning Commission. In the case of disapproval, the Planning
Commission shall communicate its reasons to the City Council, which may, by a
vote of not less than a majority of its entire membership, overrule such
disapproval.
   (B)   The widening, narrowing, extension, relocation, removal, vacation,
abandonment, change of use, acceptance, acquisition, sale, or lease of any
land, street, or public way, or any property or structure shall be subject to
similar submission to, and approval by, the Planning Commission. Disapproval
may be similarly overruled. Failure by the Planning Commission to act to
approve, approve subject to conditions, disapprove, or table for further
consideration within 60 calendar days from and after receipt of complete
official submission shall constitute approval.
§ 30.08 CONFLICTS WITHIN CODE.
   (A)   There are times the Land Management and Development Code is in the
process of being updated and all updates cannot be completed throughout the
entire code at the same time.
   (B)   Efforts are being made to insure that this code is readable,
understandable, and contains as few defects as possible.
   (C)   If, however, any conflicts, defects, inconsistencies or ambiguities
are found within different sections and/or chapters of this code, the Planning
Commission shall follow the section or wording that is most recent or in
compliance with state laws.
   (D)   If there are still conflicts, defects, or inconsistencies, the wording
more restrictive, stringent, or of a higher standard as defined or interpreted
by the Planning Commission shall be followed.
APPEAL AUTHORITY
§ 30.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL AUTHORITY.
   In order to avail the city of the powers provided in UCA Title 10, Ch. 9a,
as amended, there is hereby created an Appeal Authority.
§ 30.21 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be appointed for a term
of one year and thereafter may be appointed for succeeding one-year terms.
   (C)   The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall, as a minimum, have
such training and experience as will qualify him, her, or them to conduct
administrative or quasi-judicial hearings regarding land use, land development,
and regulatory codes dealing with issues related to land use.
   (D)   The Council may remove the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer for
cause upon receipt of written charges filed against the Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer with the County Council. The City Council shall provide the
Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer with a public hearing if one is requested.
   (E)   In the case of death, resignation, removal, or disqualification, the
position of Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be promptly filled by a
replacement appointed by the City Council for the unexpired term of the
previous Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer.
   (F)   The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be considered an
independent contractor, and as such will enter into a year-long contract for
services at the beginning of each appointed term. Terms for compensation and
reimbursement will be determined and agreed upon in the aforementioned
contract. The terms and conditions of the contract shall ultimately be approved
by the City Council prior to any individual entering into an agreement with the
county to serve as the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer.
   (G)   The City Council may, from time to time, appoint an Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer pro tempore on a temporary basis when necessitated by
the absence, unavailability, incapacity, or disqualification of the regularly
appointed Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer. Each Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer pro tempore shall, as a minimum, have qualifications which are
similar to the regularly appointed Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer.
§ 30.22 RESIGNATION OR GROUNDS FOR REMOVAL.
   The Appeal Authority may resign by letter to the city. If the Appeal
Authority fails to perform in a reasonable time period, he, she, or they may be
called before the City Council and asked to resign or be removed for cause by
the City Council.
§ 30.23 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Appeal Authority shall hear appeals and variances as authorized by
UCA § 10-9a-702, as amended.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer
shall be limited to the matters set forth below. Each of such powers and duties
shall be exercised pursuant to the procedural and other provisions of this
subchapter:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals from administrative decisions applying the
provisions of this subchapter where not otherwise specifically designated;
      (2)   Hear and decide variances from the terms of this subchapter;
      (3)   Hear appeals related to determinations made regarding the
existence, expansion, or modification of nonconforming uses; and
      (4)   Hear appeals regarding the interpretation of the zoning maps and
disputed questions on lot lines, district boundary lines, or similar questions
as they arise in the administration of the zoning regulations only after a
written decision has been made by the land use authority.
§ 30.24 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals. 
      (1)   Appeals to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be filed
in writing with the City Recorder within 30 calendar days from the date of the
decision or action appealed. The officer or department from whom the appeal is
taken shall forthwith transmit to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer all
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
Appeals shall only be accepted in which final action of the land use authority
has been made, as evidenced by issuance of a permit or other final written
action. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the completeness of the appeal
and shall reject any appeal filed without the required fee or submitted after
the 30 calendar day deadline has expired.
      (2)   The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall determine the
correctness of a decision of the land use authority in its interpretation and
application of this subchapter and Title XV of this code. Only those decisions
in which a land use authority has applied this subchapter and Title XV of this
code to a particular application, person, or parcel may be appealed to the
Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer. No person may challenge a legislative
decision by a land use authority to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer,
including land use ordinance amendment, General Plan amendment or
interpretation, or zoning map amendment.
      (3)   In reviewing a decision of a land use authority, the Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer must affirm that decision, unless it is found that a
decision interpreting or applying this title was arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal. An appeal is not subject to de novo review.
      (4)   In exercising its powers, the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer
may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify an order, decision, or
determination, to make such order, decision, or determination, consistent with
county ordinances and other applicable laws.
      (5)   Appeals may not be used to waive or modify the terms or
requirements of this subchapter and Title XV of this code.
   (B)   Decisions of the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer. At the hearing
of any matter, the parties affected may appear in person with or without an
attorney. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall decide all appeals and
other issues brought before it within a reasonable time.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal to the Appeals and Variance Hearing
Officer shall not stay proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless such proceedings are specifically stayed by order of the Zoning
Administrator. An appellant may request a stay by submitting to the City
Recorder, in writing, an application for a stay setting forth the reasons why a
stay is necessary to protect against imminent harm. In determining whether or
not to grant a stay, the Zoning Administrator shall assure that all potentially
affected parties are given the opportunity to comment on the request. A ruling
on the request for a stay shall be given within five business days from the
date the request is received by the City Recorder. The Zoning Administrator, in
granting a stay, may impose additional conditions to mitigate any potential
harm that may be caused by the stay, including requiring the appellant to post
a cash escrow financial guarantee. Within ten business days of the Zoning
Administrator’s decision regarding the grant or denial of a stay, any aggrieved
party may appeal the decision to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer,
whose decision will be final.
   (D)   Appeals from the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer. Any person
aggrieved by a final decision of the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer may
have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction, provided that the petition for such relief is presented
to the court within 30 calendar days from the date of the decision of the
Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer.
§ 30.25 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Variances from the provisions of the code may be granted by the Appeal
Authority as per UCA § 10-9a-702, as amended, whenever a strict or literal
application of the provisions of this subchapter would create a hardship on the
owner of the subject property that is unique to that property.
   (B)   Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the
requirements of a land use ordinance as applied to a parcel of property that he
owns, leases, or in which he, she, or they holds some other beneficial interest
may apply to the Appeal Authority for a variance from the terms of the
ordinance.
   (C)   The Appeal Authority may grant a variance only if each of the
following conditions is met:
      (1)   Literal enforcement of the ordinance would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of the land use ordinances;
      (2)   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
      (3)   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zone;
      (4)   The variance will not substantially affect the General Plan and
will not be contrary to the public interest; and
      (5)   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial
justice done.
   (D)   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under division (C) above, the Appeal
Authority may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
      (1)   Is located on or associated with the property for which the
variance is sought; and
      (2)   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
   (E)   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under division (C) above, the Appeal
Authority may not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed
or economic.
   (F)   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached
to the property under
division (C) above, the Appeal Authority may find that special circumstances
exist only if the special circumstances:
      (1)   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
      (2)   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same zone.
   (G)   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   (H)   Variances run with the land.
   (I)   The Appeal Authority may not grant a use variance.
   (J)   In granting a variance, the Appeal Authority may impose additional
requirements on the applicant that will:
      (1)   Mitigate any harmful affects of the variance; or
      (2)   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified.
§ 30.26 TIME TO APPEAL.
   An affected party shall have 30 calendar days to appeal to the Appeal
Authority a written decision issued by a land use authority.
§ 30.27 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE REVIEW.
   (A)   A letter of application for variance review must be filed with the
City Clerk, and the required fee paid in advance within 30 calendar days of the
written decision of a land use authority. The application shall state the
nature of the hardship and the nature of the variance requested.
   (B)   If the request for a variance is a result of a denial of any building
permit or conditional use approval, the application shall so state, and all
documents on file concerning the matter shall be forwarded to the Appeal
Authority for review as a part of the request. The applicant or the city may
present any information as might be reasonably required by the Appeal Authority
in evaluating the request.
§ 30.28 HEARING.
   The Appeal Authority shall fix the time for hearing any appeal within 15
business days of the date of filing such appeal with the City Clerk and shall
give public notice thereof in accordance with the state’s Open and Public
Meetings Act, being UCA Title 52, Chapter 4 (UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq.), as well as
notice to the parties in interest.
§ 30.29 PERSONS ENTITLED TO APPEAR.
   At the hearing on any matter before the Appeal Authority, any person
aggrieved or interested in the matter may appear in person or through his, her,
or their attorney to testify on the matter. The applicant shall have the right
to respond to testimony offered in opposition to the application.
§ 30.30 DECISION.
   In exercising the above-mentioned powers the Appeal Authority may, in
conformity with the provisions of the code, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the official
or board from whom the appeal is taken.
§ 30.31 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DECISION.
   (A)   Any person adversely affected by any decision of the Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer may petition the district court for a review of the
decision in accordance with UCA §§ 17-27a-801 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer’s decision was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
   (C)   The petition is barred unless it is filed within 30 calendar days
after the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer’s decision is final. As a
condition precedent to judicial review, each adversely affected person shall
timely and specifically challenge the land use authority’s decision, in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (D)   The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall transmit to the
reviewing court the record of its proceedings, including its minutes, findings,
orders, and, if available, a true and correct transcript of its proceedings. If
the proceeding was tape-recorded, a transcript of that tape-recording is a true
and correct transcript for purposes of this section.
   (E)   If there is a record, the District Court’s review is limited to the
record provided by the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer. The court may not
accept or consider any evidence outside the Appeals and Variance Hearing
Officer’s record unless that evidence was offered to the Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer and the court determines that it was improperly excluded.
   (F)   If there is no record, the court may call witnesses and take evidence.
   (G)   The court shall affirm the decision of the Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the
record.
   (H)   The filing of a petition does not stay the decision of the Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer. Before filing the petition, the aggrieved party may
petition the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer to stay its decision. Upon
receipt of a petition to stay, the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer may
order its decision stayed pending District Court review if the Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer finds it to be in the best interest of the county.
After the petition is filed, the petitioner may seek an injunction staying the
Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer’s decision.
CHAPTER 31: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Electronic meetings
   
31.02   Primary election system
   
31.03   Public employees’ retirement system
§ 31.01 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   The terms defined or described in the recitals of the ordinance
codified herein shall have the same meanings when used in the body of this
section.
   (B)   All actions heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of
this section) by the City Council and by the officers of the city directed
toward the calling and holding of electronic meetings are hereby ratified,
approved, and confirmed, provided such actions conform to the provisions
herein.
   (C)   Any meeting of the City Council may be called and held electronically
provided such meeting is called in conformance with the state’s Open and Public
Meetings Act, being UCA Title 52, Chapter 4 (UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq.), as
amended, and consistent with the procedures set forth herein.
   (D)   The City Council chambers where the City Council would normally meet
if it was not holding an electronic meeting, currently located at 5235 West
8800 North, City Hall, in Elwood, Utah, shall be the anchor location for all
electronic meetings and the City Council finds that such chambers proved space
and facilities so that interested persons and the public may attend and monitor
the open portions of the meeting, whether such meeting is a public hearing or
otherwise.
   (E)   To call an electronic meeting, public notice of such meeting must be
given at least 24 hours before the meeting by:
      (1)   Posting written notice at the anchor location;
      (2)   Providing written or electronic notice to:
         (a)   At least one newspaper of general circulation within the state
and in the city; and
         (b)   To a local media correspondent.
      (3)   Providing notice of the electronic meeting to the members of the
City Council at least 24 hours before the meeting so that they may participate
in and be counted as present for all purposes, including the determination that
a quorum is present; and
      (4)   Providing a description to the members of the City Council of how
the members will be connected to the electronic meeting.
   (F)   City officers, commissions, and committees are hereby authorized to
meet by electronic means, such as conferencing services provided on the
internet, e-mail, the city’s website, or telephone.
   (G)   Individual members of the City Council, commissions, or committees can
attend and participate in public meeting by electronic means when unable to
attend public meetings in person.
(Res. 2009-010, passed 12-8-2009; Res. 2020-04-14, passed 4-14-2020)
§ 31.02 PRIMARY ELECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Election for Mayor and Council members shall be conducted according to
UCA § 20A-9-404(1) and (2).
   (B)   This section provides for the candidates for Mayor and Council members
to be nominated at a primary election if required. A primary election will be
held only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds twice the
number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary election plus
candidates that were not required to run in the primary are to be placed on the
November ballot.
(Ord. 2009-001, passed 3-10-2009)
§ 31.03 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   The City Administrator and Mayor are authorized to undertake all of the
necessary actions to enroll the city in the benefit programs of the Public
Employees’ Retirement Systems offered by Utah Retirement Systems, including the
retirement coverage and death benefit coverage for qualified employees under
the laws and regulations of the Utah Retirement Systems.
(Res. 2020-006, passed 7-14-2020)
CHAPTER 32: FEES AND REVENUE
Section
Bidding
   
32.01   General purpose
   
32.02   Compliance; exemption
   
32.03   Definitions
   
32.04   Source selection and contract formation
   
32.05   Bidding procedures generally
   
32.06   Bid procedure
   
32.07   Exemptions
   
32.08   Purchasing officer
   
32.09   Agreements
   
32.10   Emergency purchases
   
32.11   Appeals
   
32.12   Ethics in public contracting
Impact Fees
   
32.25   Service area
   
32.26   Transportation impact fee
   
32.27   Regional parks and recreation impact fee
   
32.28   Fee schedule explained
   
32.29   Adjustment of standard impact fee
   
32.30   Impact fee credits
   
32.31   Fees from prior ordinances and resolutions
Service and Activity Fees
   
32.45   Fire service fee account
   
32.46   Service and activity fee schedule
BIDDING
§ 32.01 GENERAL PURPOSE.
   The underlying purposes of the policy:
   (A)   To ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to or
do conduct business with the city;
   (B)   To provide for the greatest possible economy in the city’s procurement
activities; and
   (C)   To foster effective, broad-based competition within the free
enterprise system to ensure that the city will receive the best possible
services or product at the lowest possible price.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.02 COMPLIANCE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This policy shall not prevent the city from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
   (B)   When a procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance
funds, the city shall, as required, comply with applicable federal law
regulations.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship,
joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.
   CHANGE ORDER. A written order signed by the Purchasing Officer, directing
the contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses
of the contract authorize the Purchasing Officer to order without the consent
of the contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point,
rate of delivery, period of performance, price quantity, or other provisions of
any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
   CITY. Elwood City, Utah.
   CONTRACT. Any city agreement for the procurement of disposal of supplies,
services, or construction.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS. All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
   PERSON. Any business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization, or group of individuals.
   PROCUREMENT. Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to
purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction.
   PURCHASE DESCRIPTION. The words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services, or construction to be purchased, and includes
specifications attached to or made a part of the solicitation.
   PURCHASING OFFICER. The person duly authorized by the governing body of the
city to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations
with respect thereto.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.04 SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION.
   (A)   No appropriation may be encumbered and no expenditure may be made
against any work area appropriation unless there is a sufficient unencumbered
balance in the department’s appropriation, except in cases of emergency as
provided by this subchapter.
   (B)   All encumbrances designated as outstanding as of the end of the fiscal
year shall be evidenced by a purchasing order issued on or before the last day
of the fiscal year and approved by the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   All purchases or encumbrances of such purchases by the city shall be
made or incurred according to the purchasing procedures established by this
resolution and applicable state law.
   (D)   No expenditures or encumbrances shall be made in excess of the total
appropriations for any work area in the budget as adopted or subsequently
amended.
   (E)   Purchases less than $3,000.
      (1)   For purchases of $300 or less, authorized city personnel desiring
to make purchases do not need to obtain bids and may purchases the items and
submit a purchases order therefore without any formal approval procedure.
Authorized purchases of $200 or less do not require a purchase order. However,
for all purchases not requiring a bid, a sales receipt must be presented to the
City Recorder for accounting purposes.
      (2)   For purchases in excess of $300 but less than $2,999, the
department head, before making the purchase, shall submit a purchase order to
the City Recorder for determination that the purchase would be within the
department’s budget. Upon the approval of the purchase order by the City
Recorder, the purchase order and the City Recorder’s statement of approval
shall be submitted to the Purchasing Officer who may then approve or disapprove
of the purchase.
   (F)   Purchases of $3,000 or more.
      (1)   At least three bids shall be required for purchases of $3,000 or
more. Sealed bids shall be required for the purchase of all vehicles and road
equipment and of all construction projects in excess of $8,000.
      (2)   Contracts for public improvements with an estimated cost of $25,000
or more shall be in accordance with UCA §§ 11-39-103 and 63G-6A et seq., as
amended, as it currently exists or as it hereafter may be modified.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.05 BIDDING PROCEDURES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Bids or proposals shall be submitted sealed unless specified
otherwise.
   (B)   A purchase may be awarded without competition or bidding when the work
area supervisor and Purchasing Officer, if one has been appointed and with the
approval of the City Council, determine in writing that there is only one
source for the required service or item and the use of sole source is allowed
under applicable law. In that event, bids will not be necessary, but all other
procedures as set forth in this subchapter shall be followed (UCA § 63G-6a-802,
as amended.)
   (C)   An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to be
awarded by competitive sealed bidding or sealed proposals. The invitation shall
include a purchase description and all contractual terms and conditions
applicable to the procurement. Public notice of the invitation for bids shall
be given at least 14 days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening
of bids. The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general
circulation.
   (D)   When the Mayor and the City Council determine that the use of
competitive sealed bidding is either not practical, or is not advantageous to
the city or required by law or otherwise, a contract may be entered into by
competitive sealed proposals in the manner as set forth in UCA §§ 11-39-103 and
63G-6A et seq., as amended.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.06 BID PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Bids shall be prepared in the following manner whenever purchases for
equipment, supplies, or services are to be made by the city, unless specified
otherwise in this subchapter. City personnel such as work area supervisor and
the like shall:
      (1)   Determine the specifications of the items or services needed and
prepare a written statement setting forth those specifications;
      (2)   Prepare a written request or notice for bids/proposals; and
      (3)   Submit the specifications and request or notice for bids/proposal,
for City Council approval.
 
   (B)   Bids/proposals as hereinafter specified, received directly by a work
area supervisor, together with proposed agreements or other documents relating
to the purchase shall be submitted to the City Council for confirmation and
award of bid as required by this subchapter.
   (C)   In all instances, the request for bids/proposals shall be issued to at
least three separate vendors/resources, if reasonable and possible.
   (D)   Each request for, notice of, or advertisement regarding bids/proposals
shall set forth specifications for the item or service to be purchased. A copy
of such request, notice, or advertisement shall be maintained in the office of
the City Recorder as well as with the responsible work area head.
   (E)   Sealed bids/proposals shall be received and held by the City Recorder
who shall indicate on the bids the date and time of the receipt of such bids.
Sealed bids/proposals shall be opened at the time and place as specified in the
bid notice request and shall be opened in the presence of the City Recorder,
Mayor, work area supervisor, designated Purchasing Officer and any other
interested parties. The amount of each bid and any other relevant information,
together with the name of each bidder shall be recorded. The record and each
bid shall be open to public inspection.
   (F)   All sealed bids for contracts shall be made in compliance with this
subchapter and with the provisions of UCA §§ 63G-6A et seq., as amended.
   (G)   All notices of or requests for bidding on construction contracts shall
specify requirements for a performance bond and payment bond in compliance with
the provisions of UCA §§ 14-1-18, 14-1-19, 64-56-18, and 63G-6a-1005, as
amended.
   (H)   A bid security in an amount equal to at least 5% of the amount bid
shall be required for all sealed bidding for construction contracts and shall
be in the form of a bond provided by a security company authorized to do
business in the state, the equivalent in cash, or any other form satisfactory
to the city.
   (I)   If a bidder fails to comply with the requirements for bid security,
the bid may be rejected, unless it is determined that the failure to comply
with the security requirement is nonsubstantial.
   (J)   After all bids are open, such bids shall be irrevocable for the period
specified in the invitation or request for bids. However, if the bidder is
permitted to withdraw a bid before the award, no action shall be taken against
the bidder or the bid security.
   (K)   Cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contracts are prohibited. Subject to
the limitations of this section, any type of contract which will promote the
best interests of the city may be used, provided that the use of a cost-plus-a-
percentage-of-cost contract is prohibited. A cost-reimbursement contract may be
used only when a determination is made that such contract is likely to be less
costly to the city than any other type, or that it is impracticable to obtain
the supplies, service, or construction required except under such a contract.
   (L)   Required contract clauses:
      (1)   The unilateral right of the city to order in writing changes in the
work within the scope of the contract and changes in the time of performance of
the contract that do not alter the scope of the contract work;
      (2)   Variations occurring between estimated quantities of work in a
contract and actual quantities; and
      (3)   Suspension of work ordered by the city.
   (M)   All bids/proposals received, together with proof of advertisement by
publication or otherwise, shall be maintained by the City Recorder for a period
of at least three years following the award of any contract pursuant to such
bids/proposals for three years following the date of the first advertisement or
publications of the notice for such bids/proposals in the event that all bids/
proposals pursuant to that notice as advertised are rejected.
   (N)   All bids/proposals shall be recorded as to the name of the bidder, the
amount of the bid, and compliance with the bid notice and request, and such
record shall be submitted to the City Council for conformation and award of bid
as required be this subchapter.
   (O)   The city shall at all times and in all bidding circumstances reserve
the right to reject any and all bids/proposals with or without cause.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following purchases shall be exempt from bidding requirements:
   (A)   Purchases from any federal, state, local, or county agencies including
but not limited to, Utah State Central Stores, surplus sources, or state
approved contract lists;
   (B)   Salaries and benefits for city employees;
   (C)   Utilities including gas, electricity, water, sewer, solid waste, and
telephone;
   (D)   Ongoing contracts which have been provided the in the city’s budget
such as, but not limited to, lease purchase agreements, land purchase
agreements, and otherwise;
   (E)   Seminars, training, and conferences for city employees, officers, or
authorized representatives;
   (F)   Reimbursement for travel costs, pre diem, and expenses incurred by
city employees, officers, or authorized representatives;
   (G)   Fuel purchase which may be bid on an annual basis rather than on a
purchase-by-purchase basis;
   (H)   Items to be acquired from a sole source providing that there is
written documentation that there is only one source for the required items;
   (I)   Inter-local agreements; and
   (J)   Professional services such as legal, auditing, accounting,
engineering, consulting, and other similar services; provided however, that
sealed proposals may be requested each three years, or as conditions may
warrant, on such services at the discretion of the City Council.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.08 PURCHASING OFFICER.
   (A)   A Purchasing officer or agent may be appointed by the city to control
and expedite city purchasing. His, her, or their duties and powers are set
forth in this section and may be modified or amended by subsequent resolutions.
   (B)   The Purchasing Officer shall provide any assistance requested by the
city personnel desiring to make purchases with respect to bid preparation,
actual purchases, delivery, installation, and monitoring the performance of any
purchase-related agreements. The Purchasing Officer shall involve city
personnel as may be reasonably necessary in the purchase process.
   (C)   Typically, the purchasing agent, upon receipt of the general
specifications prepared by city personnel and the request for bid, together
with other related information, shall:
      (1)   Review the documents as submitted;
      (2)   Make comparisons to other sources for the same items or services;
      (3)   Prepare the bid document;
      (4)   Contact potential bidders for bids;
      (5)   Determine if purchases could be made jointly with other work areas
in order to obtain better prices and terms;
      (6)   Receive bids and confirm adherence to the specification of the bid
request and clarify any questions concerning the bid;
      (7)   Submit any proposed agreements or leases to an attorney for a legal
opinion;
      (8)   Make recommendations to the work area supervisor, the Mayor, and to
the City Council; and
      (9)   Unless instructed otherwise by the City Council, the Purchasing
Officer, upon receipt and approval of all documents and examination of bids,
may submit a purchase order to the City Recorder together with the bid and
other documents, including any legal opinion from the City Attorney, together
with the Purchasing Officer’s statement of approval. The City Recorder shall
then approve the purchases being within the budget for that department and
submit the purchase materials together with his, her, or their indication of
approval to the Mayor or City Council member responsible for that department
area who shall then either approve or disapprove of the same.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.09 AGREEMENTS.
   No agreement, lease purchase, or lease may be made or entered into without
the approval of the City Council.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.10 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   (1)   Under emergency conditions, where there exists a threat to
public health, welfare, safety, or property, the Purchasing Officer, if one has
been appointed, or in his, her, or their absence the Mayor or member of the
Council, or in the inability to contact any of those individuals, the work area
supervisor in charge of the affected area, may make or authorize an emergency
procurement without bids.
      (2)   However, emergency procurement shall be made with as much
competition as practical under the circumstances.
   (B)   A written determination of the basis for the emergency and for the
selection of the particular vendor/contractor shall be submitted thereafter by
the individual authorizing procurement, to the Mayor and City Council for the
purchase to be reviewed and the emergency confirmed.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.11 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any actual or prospective bidder, or contractor who is aggrieved
in connection with the solicitation of award of a contract may appeal to the
Purchasing Officer.
      (2)   An appeal shall be submitted in writing within five working days
after aggrieved person knows or should have known of the facts.
   (B)   The Purchasing Officer shall promptly issue a written decision
regarding any appeal, if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision
shall state the reason for the action taken and inform the protestor,
contractor, or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the governing
body.
   (C)   The city governing body shall be the final appeal on the city level.
   (D)   All further appeals shall be handled as provided in UCA §§ 63G-6A-1801
and 63G-6A-1802, as amended.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 32.12 ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING.
   No person involved in procurement decisions shall violate UCA §§ 10-3-1305,
10-3-1306, 10-3-1307 or 10-3-1308, as amended, as they currently exist or as
they hereafter may be modified.
(Res. 2018-001, passed 1-9-2018)
IMPACT FEES
§ 32.25 SERVICE AREA.
   The transportation impact service area will be all future development within
the city’s boundaries. The regional parks and recreational service area will be
all future development within the city’s boundaries.
(Ord. 2011-001, passed - - 2011)
§ 32.26 TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE.
   Based on and in consideration of the above-listed findings of the City
Council, the data contained in the city’s General Plan and impact fee analysis,
the City Council finds that there should be, and there is hereby enacted the
following transportation impact fees, the applicability of which to the
categories indicated is hereby confirmed, for the above established
transportation impact service area, said fee having been determined to comport
as required with applicable law and the findings of the impact fee analysis:
 
Impact Fee Assessment to New Development
Proposed Land Use         Calculated Impact Fee
Single family (1 ERU)     $5,625
Multiple family (Per ERU) $5,625
 
(Ord. 2011-001, passed - - 2011)
§ 32.27 REGIONAL PARKS AND RECREATION IMPACT FEE.
   Based on and in consideration of the above-listed findings of the City
Council, the data contained in the city’s General Plan, and impact fee
analysis, the City Council finds that there should be, and there is hereby
enacted the following regional parks and recreation impact fees, the
applicability of which to the categories indicated is hereby confirmed, for the
above established regional parks and recreation impact service area, said fee
having been determined to comport as required with applicable law and the
findings of the impact fee analysis:
 
Impact Fee Assessment to New Development
Proposed Land Use         Calculated Impact Fee
Single family (1 ERU)     $900
Multiple family (Per ERU) $900
 
(Ord. 2011-001, passed - - 2011)
§ 32.28 FEE SCHEDULE EXPLAINED.
   (A)   The schedule of fees previously set out in the city’s fee schedule is
reaffirmed.
   (B)   Where existing fees differ from any fees established in this
subchapter, the former are hereby repealed to the extent of that difference and
the fees adopted herein are now placed in the fee schedule in their stead.
   (C)   Where fees established in this subchapter are not listed in the city’s
fee schedule, the fees adopted herein are now placed in the consolidated fee
schedule the same are hereby adopted as part of the official fee schedule for
the city.
(Ord. 2011-001, passed - - 2011)
§ 32.29 ADJUSTMENT OF STANDARD IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   The City Council may adjust the standard impact fee at the time the
fee is charged to respond to:
      (1)   Unusual circumstances in specific cases; or
      (2)   A request for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for the
development activity of the state, a school district, or a charter school and
an offset or credit for a public facility for which an impact fee has been or
will be collected and to ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly.
   (B)   The City Council may also adjust the calculation of the amount of an
impact to be imposed on a particular development based upon studies and data
submitted by the developer.
(Ord. 2011-001, passed - - 2011)
§ 32.30 IMPACT FEE CREDITS.
   (A)   The City Council shall ensure that a developer, including a school
district or a charter school, shall receive a credit against or proportionate
reimbursement of an impact fee if the developer:
      (1)   Dedicates land for a system improvement;
      (2)   Builds or dedicates some or all of a system improvement; or
      (3)   Dedicates a public facility that the local political subdivision or
private entity and the developer agree will reduce the need for a system
improvement.
   (B)   The City Council shall give a credit against impact fees for any
dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements provided by the developer if the facilities:
      (1)   Are system improvements; or
      (2)   (a)   Are dedicated to the public; and
         (b)   Offsets the need for an identified system improvement.
(Ord. 2011-001, passed - - 2011)
§ 32.31 FEES FROM PRIOR ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The above fees, where they may have been taken from prior city ordinances
and resolutions, are listed here for centralization and convenience; and,
further, that the body and substance of those prior ordinances and resolutions,
together with their specific provisions, where not otherwise in conflict with
this subchapter, are hereby reaffirmed and readopted.
(Ord. 2011-001, passed - - 2011)
SERVICE AND ACTIVITY FEES
§ 32.45 FIRE SERVICE FEE ACCOUNT.
   The city does hereby enact the special revenue fund for the collection and
appropriation of fees for fire service and the City Council shall annually
review the fee.
(Ord. 2009-002, passed 4-28-2009)
§ 32.46 SERVICE AND ACTIVITY FEE SCHEDULE.
Service/Activity Cost
Service/Activity                                                                 Cost
Administrative conditional use permit fee                                        $50
Annexation request                                                               $250
Application for appeal to Board of Adjustments                                   $50
Building permit                                                                  As per
                                                                                 calculation
Building permit (out building, fence, as-building, and the like)                 $25
Business license                                                                 $25
Cemetery plots
   Resident                                                                   $200
   Nonresident                                                                $400
City Hall                                                                        $25 deposit
   Church groups, Scouts, 4H, youth groups                                    No charge
   Family gatherings
      Resident                                                             $25
      Nonresident                                                          $50
   Commercial
      Resident                                                             $50
      Nonresident                                                          $75
Conditional use permit application fee                                           $100
Dog licensing fee                                                                $10 per dog
Dog licensing fee; late fee after April 30                                       $25 per dog
GRAMA records
   Copies
      Standard size, non-color white copies*                               $0.25 per
                                                                                 page
      Standard size, color copies*                                         $.40 per
                                                                                 page
      11 by 17*                                                            $1 per page
      Other odd sized copies                                               Actual cost
                                                                                 $2 minimum
                                                                                 + actual
   Mailing and shipping*                                                      mailing
                                                                                 costs if
                                                                                 greater
                                                                                 than $2
   DVD or jump drive*                                                         $10
   Other services (e.g. fees for third-party services)                        Actual cost
   Electronic copy by email                                                   No charge
                                                                                 Actual
                                                                                 cost, not
   *Includes staff time required to search, compile, and otherwise prepare to to exceed
provide a record                                                                 salary of
                                                                                 lowest paid
                                                                                 employee
Grave opening
   Resident                                                                   $300
   Nonresident                                                                $300
Hansen Park Cook Shack                                                           $250
                                                                                 deposit
   Resident                                                                   $100
   Nonresident                                                                $200
Hansen Park rental                                                               $250
                                                                                 deposit
   Large bowery
      Resident                                                             $100
      Nonresident                                                          $250
   Small bowery
      Resident                                                             $50
      Nonresident                                                          $150
Impact fees (see capital facilities and analysis)
   Culinary water per ERC*                                                    $3,398
   Parks                                                                      $900
   Sanitary sewer per ERC*                                                    $4,037
   Storm sewer                                                                $149
   Transportation                                                             $5,625
Land Use Management and Development Code                                         $35
Minor lot line adjustments                                                       $25
Off-premises beer license                                                        $350
Sewer rate per month per ERC*                                                    $47
Sewer connection fee                                                             $800
(*or at the city’s cost, whichever is greater)
Site plan review                                                                 $175
                                                                                 $5 per
Special revenue fire service fee                                                 water tap
                                                                                 per month
Subdivision/subdivision amendment application fee                                $100
Subdivision application fee                                                      $125 per
                                                                                 lot
Temporary meter rate                                                             $2.75 per
                                                                                 1,000
Water connection fee
                                                                                 $2,525 (3/
                                                                                 4 inch or
                                                                                 at the
With road bore                                                                   city's
                                                                                 cost,
                                                                                 whichever
                                                                                 is greater)
                                                                                 $1,825 (3/
                                                                                 4 inch or
                                                                                 at the
Without road bore                                                                city's
                                                                                 cost,
                                                                                 whichever
                                                                                 is greater)
                                                                                 $2,675 (1
                                                                                 inch or at
With road bore                                                                   the city's
                                                                                 cost,
                                                                                 whichever
                                                                                 is greater)
                                                                                 $1,925 (1
                                                                                 inch or at
Without road bore                                                                the city's
                                                                                 cost,
                                                                                 whichever
                                                                                 is greater)
                                                                                 $5,985 (2
                                                                                 inch or at
With road bore                                                                   the city's
                                                                                 cost,
                                                                                 whichever
                                                                                 is greater)
                                                                                 $5,085 (2
                                                                                 inch or at
Without road bore                                                                the city's
                                                                                 cost,
                                                                                 whichever
                                                                                 is greater)
Water rates
   1-10,000 gallons                                                           $42
   10,001-15,000 gallons                                                      $1 per
                                                                                 1,000
   15,001-30,000 gallons                                                      $2 per
                                                                                 1,000
   30,001 gallons and up                                                      $2.75 per
                                                                                 1,000
Discontinued service
   Late fee (imposed 30 days after due date)                                  $2
   Turn on fee                                                                $25
   Turn off fee                                                               $25
Water share new development                                                      $3,500
Zoning map/ordinance amendment application fee                                   $100 plus
                                                                                 postage
Table Notes:
*An ERC is equal to 10,000 gallons of indoor water use per month.
 
(Res. 2017-002, passed 5-9-2017; Res. 2022-006, passed 8-9-2022; Ord. 2024-002,
passed 3-12-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER
      
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWER
Section
Wastewater System Policy
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Use of public sewers required
   
50.03   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.04   Sanitary and building sewers and connections; rates
   
50.05   Annual review
   
50.06   Use regulations
   
50.07   Powers and authority of inspectors
Sewer Impact Fee
   
50.20   Title
   
50.21   Impact fee imposed
   
50.22   Definition
   
50.23   Impact fee facilities plan
   
50.24   Impact fee analysis
   
50.25   Highest fees and calculations
   
50.26   Service area
   
50.27   Fee schedule explained
   
50.28   Accounting
   
50.29   Expenditure
   
50.30   Refunds
   
50.31   Appeals
   
50.32   Sewer utilities rate
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire District, see
Chapter 154
   Renewable Energy, see
Chapter 152
   Subdivisions, see
Chapter 150
WASTEWATER SYSTEM POLICY
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows:
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CESSPOOL. An underground reservoir for liquid waste (as household sewage).
   CITY. Elwood City, Box Elder County, Utah.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. All waste resulting from residences, commercial trades or
businesses and institutions. Commercial and industrial waste shall be distinct
from domestic or household sanitary systems.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and Council members of Elwood City.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. Permissive. See definition of SHALL.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ions concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 107.
   PRIVY. A small building having a bench with holes through which the user may
defecate or urinate.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT. A structure, building or unit discharging effluent
into the system placing no more burden or discharging no more effluent than
"residential flows", as defined hereinafter.
   RESIDENTIAL FLOWS. The assumed average and/or standard flow expected from a
single-family dwelling based on wintertime culinary water usage. A RESIDENTIAL
FLOW volume strength is 250 mg/l TSS (total suspended solids, see definition of
suspended solids) and 200 mg/l BOD (biochemical oxygen demand, see definition
of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)). Rates for volume and strength of
RESIDENTIAL FLOW shall be set out in an amendment to this subchapter or in a
resolution.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEPTIC TANK. A tank in which the solid matter of continuous flowing sewage
is disintegrated by bacteria.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater",
as defined herein.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. Mandatory. See definition of MAY.
   SLUDGE. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or of water pollution control of Elwood City,
or his, her or their authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   SYSTEM. The sewer or wastewater facilities of the city.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 2010-003, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 50.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Deposits. It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or
permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Discharges. It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Private systems. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   Connection required; exception. The owner of all houses, buildings or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes,
situated within the sewer service area and abutting on any street, alley,
easement or right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be
located a public sanitary sewer of the city, or within 300 feet of the system,
is hereby required, at the owner's expense, to install suitable sewer
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 180 days
after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said sewer is within 300
feet of the owner's property line. An exception to this policy may be granted
by the City Council in extraordinary cases only.
   (E)   Proposed subdivisions. The owner of any proposed subdivision plat
located within the sewer service area shall be required, at the owner's
expense, to install suitable sewer facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the public sewer in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter, within 180 days after date of official notice to do so, if the
property, from the nearest property line of any kind, falls within the required
hookup distance. The formula to be used for this specific requirement is to
multiply the number of lots by 300 feet. That total number (in feet) is defined
as the required hookup distance. The city requires that the owner of any
proposed subdivision plat of lots within the required hookup distance of any
lateral, interceptor or collection portion of the system shall connect to the
system, the failure of which shall constitute a public offense and punishable
by law as a Class B misdemeanor. If after having calculated the required hookup
distance and the owner's nearest property line of any kind is outside of that
required hookup distance from any lateral, interceptor or collection portion of
the system, then the city shall waive this requirement.
   (F)   Extraterritorial jurisdiction. To evidence compliance with the
requirements of this section, the city adopts this penalty and compensatory
sanctions, the violation of which shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor. Under
the authority of UCA § 10-8-15, as amended, the city hereby exercises a
municipality's extraterritorial jurisdiction to protect its culinary water
system and its source from exposure to underground percolation from any
ecological injury, pollution or contamination of the watershed or exposure of
the system and water polluting underground percolation's influencing the
culinary waterworks source. The city, under the authority of UCA § 10-8-38, as
amended, declares that all lands in the sewer service area within 300 feet on
either side of the transmission or interceptor lines and the inlet facilities
of each and all of the collection, interception and inlet facilities or one or
any combination of the same (the "system") are a part of the wastewater
facilities of the city and the system, and the city hereby requires that the
owner or occupant of any land upon which any structure is located and on the
nearest property line of any kind within 300 feet of any lateral, interceptor
or collection portion of the system shall connect to the system, the failure of
which shall constitute a public offense and punishable by law as a Class B
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 2010-003, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see
§
50.99
§ 50.03 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Permitted. Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available
under the provisions of §
50.02(D), the building's sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Permit; fee. Before commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from
the governmental entity with jurisdiction. The application for such permit
shall be made on a form furnished by the appropriate governmental entity, which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid
as required at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   Compliance; inspection. Permission to use the system for a private
wastewater disposal system shall not become authorized until the installation
is completed in compliance with the approved plans applicable with all state
and local codes, and this subchapter. Authorized city employees shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. The applicant for the
permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the city.
   (D)   State compliance; minimum lot area. The type, capacities, location and
layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the Department of Environmental Quality of the State of
Utah. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than one-half acre. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   Connection to public system; time limit. At such time as a public
sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal
system, as provided in §
50.02(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 180
days, in compliance with this policy, and the private disposal system shall be
disconnected, safely abandoned and made inoperable in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations.
   (F)   Maintenance. When a public sewer is not available, the owner shall
operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary
manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
   (G)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the Utah State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (H)   Sewer lateral lines. Unless provision is expressly made for the
ownership of sewer lines by means of a written agreement, all sewer mains shall
be deemed to be the property of the city and subject to its absolute control
and supervision even though actual installation may have been performed by a
developer or other property owner. Maintenance of all connecting lines or
laterals running from the main line to the point of connection at the facility
served by such connecting line or lateral shall be as follows:
      (1)   The city shall be responsible for the physical integrity of the
line between the main line and the property line of the facility being served,
any breaks in the piping or similar failures shall be the responsibility of the
city.
      (2)   The property owner shall be responsible for the physical integrity
of the line and any physical or piping failures that occur on the property
being served.
      (3)   The property owner shall be responsible for all blockages or
similar impediments of the wastewater flows for the entire length of the
lateral line from the main line to the facility being served. The city accepts
no liability nor responsibility for any blockage in the lateral line whether it
is under public property or private property.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 2010-003, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see
§
50.99
§ 50.04 SANITARY AND BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS; RATES.
   (A)   Permit required. No unauthorized person shall uncover make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
Exceptions may be allowed for a property owner to clean out their own line on
their property if there is an issue with the physical integrity of the line or
there is a blockage as discussed in §
50.03(H)(2) and (H)(3).
   (B)   Classifications; equivalent residential units; application; fee.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of sewer connections to be known as
"residential" and "commercial". Each connection type shall be measured by ERUs
(equivalent residential units). Each residence served by the wastewater system
will be considered to be a "residential" connection and will be considered to
be equal to one ERU. In cases where there is more than one dwelling unit in a
residence each will be counted as a separate ERU. Each establishment served by
the city's wastewater system that is not residential in nature will be
considered a "commercial" connection charged equal to the average number of
ERUs of flow contributed to the system. In the city, an ERU is equal to 10,000
gallons per month.
      (2)   Prior to connecting to the wastewater system, a preliminary study
shall be conducted to determine the ERU value for each "commercial" connection.
One year from the date the connection occurs, actual flows shall be used to
confirm the ERU value for the connection. The flow data will be updated
annually.
      (3)   In every case, the owner or agent shall make application on a form
obtained from the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the superintendent.
      (4)   A fee for sewer connection permits and inspections shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Mandatory connection; penalty.
      (1)   Each person owning, occupying or having an interest in any
structure in the city, the property line of which is within 300 feet of the
sewer line shall connect to the sewer system upon an application in the form
hereinafter set out.
      (2)   It shall be a Class B misdemeanor or a misdemeanor as declared by
state law or county ordinance for any person to fail to connect to the sewer
system who is the occupant, owner or user of any structure whose outermost
property line is within 300 feet of the sewer system by a fine of not less than
$50 for each day of violation, and each day of failure to connect shall be
deemed a separate offense. In cases where connection would create an inordinate
burden, the City Council may waive this requirement.
      (3)   Each individual connection to the sewer system shall execute an
application on a form provided by the city.
   (D)   Rates, fees and charges for sewer services.
      (1)   The governing body will, in order to promote equity in distribution
of operation and maintenance costs, and for no other purpose, establish rates
based entirely upon metered winter usage, effluent strength, or solely upon the
basis as defined herein above or upon an equitable combination or any of those
so that the costs of operation and maintenance reflected in rates will be
equitably distributed among those based upon their usage of and benefit
received from the system.
      (2)   The rates for connecting to and use on monthly or any other basis
will be fixed and amended by resolution or amending this subchapter.
   (E)   Installation of building sewer. All costs and expenses incidental to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   Separate and independent building sewer required; exception. A
separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building;
except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole system
will be considered as one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume
any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
such single connection as described herein.
   (G)   Construction code compliance. The size, slope, alignment, materials or
construction of all sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods
to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the Building
and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city and the
state. In the absence of these code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (H)   Elevation. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought from
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer. Where such means are necessary, the
owner shall be responsible for all installations, maintenance and operating
costs for their operation.
   (I)   Surface runoff or ground water. No person shall make connection of
roof downspouts, foundation drains, field drains, or other sources of surface
runoff or ground water, to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such
connection is approved by the city and the Utah State Department of
Environmental Quality for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (J)   Connection code requirements. The connection of the building sewer
into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the Building and
Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, and the
state, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of nationally
recognized publications of what are known as the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
city before installation.
   (K)   Excavations; protection. All excavation for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights, and meet
all OSHA standards inside the trench, so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (L)   Responsibility for payment.
      (1)   Irrespective of the occupant, user, tenant, cotenant, permissive
user, or any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or entity being in
possession of the premises to which a connection is supplied or service made
available, the owner of the premises according to the records of the County
Recorder shall be legally responsible for the payment of all charges, fees,
assessments and any other payment or obligation or liability of a user. If any
delinquent sewer connection, sewer user charge, repairs, maintenance or any
other obligation is imposed against any premises, property, buildings or
structures the obligation shall be deemed by the city as an obligation of the
owner of the real property on which any use is made from a sewer connection.
Water services to delinquent property shall be turned off by the city for
failure to pay any and all sewage and wastewater fees assessments, charges or
liability and will not be turned on again to those premises where a delinquency
occurs unless and until all liabilities to the city for sewer service are paid
in full or a payment plan is developed and approved at the discretion of the
City Council.
      (2)   All payments for utilities, whether "water" or "sewer" shall be
credited first to sewer assessments, fees or charges.
   (M)   Interest charge on delinquent or past due connection fees. The Mayor
and City Council may at their discretion and in circumstances that are
equitable, impose interest at the rate of 10% on all past due accounts either
for connection fees, user charges, maintenance repair or any other charge which
is provided for imposed or authorized by this subchapter.
   (N)   Notification of rate. Each user will be notified at least annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment services operation and
maintenance (O&M) vs. debt service.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 2010-003, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see
§
50.99
§ 50.05 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   The city shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance, long-term debt service relating to the wastewater treatment works
as well as each user's wastewater contribution percentage not less often than
every year and will review the user charge system as necessary to assure equity
of the system established herein and to assure that sufficient funds are
obtained from the city's user charge system to:
         (a)   Adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment works;
and
         (b)   Cover said debt service.
      (2)   The city will apply excess revenues collected from a class of users
to the costs of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the
next year, and adjust this rate accordingly.
   (B)   Rates, fees and charges for sewer services. The city shall pass a
resolution or amendment to this subchapter to establish rates, fees and charges
for sewer services and shall be on file in the city office.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 2010-003, passed 6-11-2019)
§ 50.06 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause the discharge of any unpolluted
waters such as storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer; except storm water runoff
from limited areas which may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the city and Utah State Department of
Environmental Quality.
   (B)   Storm water, other than that exempted under division (A) of this
section, and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to natural outlets approved
by the city and the Utah State Department of Environmental Quality. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters shall also be discharged to a storm
sewer combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   If any water or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in any of state laws or the city's sanitary sewer
ordinances or policies, and which are determined by the city to have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
this subchapter. If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flow the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the city and the Utah State Department of
Environmental Quality;
      (4)   Require a plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer
and pretreatment facility location.
      (5)   Require details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      (6)   Require details of systems to prevent and control the losses of
materials through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (D)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times duration and frequencies are to be determined
on an individual basis subject to approval by the city.
   (E)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 2010-003, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see
§
50.99
§ 50.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Entrance upon premises. Duly authorized employees of the city, county
or the Bear River Health Department, as permitted by the city, bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Obtain information. Duly authorized inspectors are authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes that have a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system.
Industrial users may withhold information when they have established that the
revelation of said information to the public might result in an advantage to
competitors.
   (C)   Information to determine compliance. The city may require any user of
sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance with this
subchapter. These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater's discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      (2)   Chemical analysis of wastewaters.
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer control.
   (D)   Safety rules observed. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to herein duly authorized inspectors shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.
   (E)   Premises with easement. Duly authorized inspectors bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within
said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall
be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 2010-003, passed 6-11-2019)
SEWER IMPACT FEE
§ 50.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter of the city code is known as the “Sewer Impact Fee.”
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.21 IMPACT FEE IMPOSED.
   The city does hereby impose upon the applicant for each building permit
applied for after July 11, 2012 an impact fee for sewer and treatment
facilities. The fee is $4,037 per equivalent residential connection (ERC),
which represents that maximum amount that can be charged. Each residential
connection shall be charged for one ERC. A copy of the impact fee analysis is
attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.22 DEFINITION.
   As used in this subchapter, unless specifically defined below, words shall
have the same meanings as provided in the state’s Impact Fees Act, being UCA §§
11-36A-101 et seq.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL CONNECTION or ERC. The estimated waterflow from a
typical residential connection, which has been estimated at 350 gallons per day
for indoor water use.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.23 IMPACT FEE FACILITIES PLAN.
   The city has opted not to adopt an impact fee facilities plan at this time,
under the exception granted by UCA § 11-36a-301(3)(a), but declares that the
sewer impact fee is based upon a reasonable plan.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.24 IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS.
   A written analysis satisfying the requirements of the state’s Impact Fees
Act, being UCA §§ 11-36A-101 et seq., has been prepared for the sewer system
and treatment facilities impact fee.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.25 HIGHEST FEES AND CALCULATIONS.
   (A)   The impact fee imposed by this impact fee enactment shall not exceed
the highest fee justified by the impact fee analysis.
   (B)   In calculating the impact fee, the city is authorized to include:
      (1)   The construction contract price, based on realistic estimates;
      (2)   The cost of acquiring land, improvements, materials, and fixtures;
      (3)   The cost for planning, surveying, and engineering fees for services
provided for and directly related to the construction of the system
improvements; and
      (4)   Debt service charges, if the city might use impact fees as a
revenue stream to pay the principal and interest on bonds, notes, or other
obligations issued to finance the costs of the system improvements.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.26 SERVICE AREA.
   The service area for purposes of calculating and imposing the impact fee
considered herein shall be the entire geographical area of the city.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.27 FEE SCHEDULE EXPLAINED.
   (A)   The formula that the city shall use to calculate the impact fee is as
attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   The city may adjust the standard impact fee at the time the fee is
charged to:
      (1)   Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases or to a request
for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for the development activity
of the state, a school district or a charter school, and an offset or credit
for a public facility for which an impact fee has been or will be collected;
      (2)   Ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly; and
      (3)   Reflect the actual cost of inflation or deflation for construction
projects in the state since the time of adoption of the impact fee.
   (C)   The city may also adjust the impact fee to be imposed on a particular
development based upon studies and data submitted by the developer.
   (D)   Developers, including a school district or a charter school, are
allowed to receive a credit against or proportionate reimbursement of an impact
fee if the developer:
      (1)   Dedicates land for a system improvement;
      (2)   Builds and dedicates some or all of a system improvement; or
      (3)   Dedicates a public facility that the local political subdivision or
private entity and the developer agree will reduce the need for a system
improvement.
   (E)   A credit against impact fees shall be given for any dedication of land
for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system improvements provided
by the developer if the facilities:
      (1)   Are system improvements; or
      (2)   (a)   Are dedicated to the public; and
         (b)   Offset the need for an indentified system improvement.
   (F)   The city may exempt low income housing and other development
activities with broad public purposes from impact fees and establish one or
more sources of funds other than impact fees to pay for that development
activity.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.28 ACCOUNTING.
   Collected impact fees shall be accounted for as prescribed in the state’s
Impact Fees Act, being UCA §§ 11-36A-101 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.29 EXPENDITURE.
   (A)   Fees shall only be expended for:
      (1)   A sewer system improvement of treatment facility identified in the
impact fee analysis; and
      (2)   System improvements for the sewer system and treatment facility for
which the fee was collected.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided below, the city shall expend or encumber the
impact fees for a permissible use within six years of their receipt.
      (2)   The city may hold the fees for longer than six years if it
identifies, in writing:
         (a)   An extraordinary and compelling reason why the fees should be
held longer than six years; and
         (b)   An absolute date by which the fees will be expended.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.30 REFUNDS.
   The city shall refund any impact fees paid by a developer, plus interest
earned, when:
   (A)   The developer does not proceed with the development activity and has
filed a written request for a refund;
   (B)   The fees have not been spent or encumbered; and/or
   (C)   No impact has resulted.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.31 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person or entity residing in or owning property within the city,
and any organization, association, or corporation representing the interests of
persons or entities owning property within city, may file a declaratory
judgment action challenging the validity of the fee.
   (B)   Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee who believes the
fee does not meet the requirements of law may file a written request for
information with the city. Within two weeks of the receipt of the request for
information, the city shall provide the person or entity with the impact fee
analysis and with any other relevant information relating to the impact fee.
   (C)   Any person or entity that has paid the fee and wishes to challenge the
fee shall file a written request for information and pursue administrative
remedies as set forth below.
      (1)   The written request or challenge to the fees shall be filed within
30 days from payment of the fees if the challenge concerns whether the city
complied with the notice requirements of the state’s Impact Fees Act, being UCA
§§ 11-36A-101 et seq.
      (2)   The written request or challenge to the fees shall be filed within
180 days from payment of the fees if the challenge is to whether the city
complied with other procedural requirements of the state’s Impact Fees Act for
imposing the impact fee.
      (3)   The written request or challenge to the fees shall be filed within
one year from payment of the fees if the challenge is to the impact fee itself.
   (D)   The city does hereby establish an administrative appeals procedure to
consider and decide challenges to impact fees.
      (1)   All appeals shall be made in writing addressed to the Mayor and
filed with the City Recorder.
      (2)   The City Council or a hearing officer appointed by the Council
shall hear and decide the appeal.
      (3)   The person making the appeal shall be entitled to present evidence,
both written and oral, at the hearing and may be represented by counsel if he,
she, or they desires.
      (4) The city shall make its decision no later than 30 days after the date
the challenge to the impact fee is filed.
   (E)   A challenge to either the procedural or substantive aspects of this
impact fee may be initiated by filing:
      (1)   The administrative appeal as set forth above;
      (2)   A request for arbitration as provided in UCA § 11-36a-705; or
      (3)   An action in District Court.
   (F)   The sole remedy for a challenge of insufficient notice is the
equitable remedy of requiring the city to correct the defective notice and
repeat the process.
   (G)   The sole remedy for a challenge of the procedure used to adopt the fee
is the equitable remedy of requiring the city to correct the defective process.
   (H)   The sole remedy for a challenge to the amount of the fee is a refund
of the difference between what the person or entity paid as an impact fee and
the amount the impact fee should have been if it had been correctly calculated.
   (I)   The judge may award reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to the
prevailing party in any action brought under this section.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-2012)
§ 50.32 SEWER UTILITIES RATE.
   (A)   The City Council hereby adopts the attached city’s summary of fees.
   (B)   The rate contained in the city’s summary of fees will become effective
on passage by the City Council and upon passage of a subsequent budget proposal
containing the said summary of fees. as set forth herein. The City Council may
also from time to time, and by resolution, establish various classes of users,
and enact rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing, and collecting charges for
sewer services, amend sewer system rates, and enact or amend all other rules,
charges, or assessments necessary for the management and control of the sewer
system.
   (C)   The City Council may from time to time fix by agreement or resolution
special rates and conditions upon such terms as they may deem proper for users
of the sewer service discharging wastes of unusual characteristics or making
use thereof under exceptional circumstances.
   (D)   The City Council is constituted as a board of equalization of sewer
rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any assessments or charges
deemed to be illegal, unequal, or unjust.
   (E)   Irrespective of the occupant, user, tenant, co-tenant, permissive
user, contract purchaser, or any other person, firm, partnership, corporation,
or entity being in possession of the premises to which a sewer connection is
supplied or service is made available, the owner of the premises according to
the records of the County Recorder as of the date the charge, fee, or
assessment is made, unless designated otherwise, shall be legally responsible
for the payment of all charges, fees, assessments, obligations, or liabilities
of a sewer system user.
   (F)   All fees are to be paid in advance.
   (G)   The sewer utilities rate is $45 per month ERU.
(Res. 2011-006, passed 9-7-2011) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall within the period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Misdemeanor penalty. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in division (A) of this section shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to
a fine up to $1,000 for a Class B misdemeanor as set forth by the Utah State
Code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Liability for damages. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city for the expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 2010-003, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 2010-003, passed 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Water System Safety
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Water supply protections
   
51.03   Duty to inspect annually
   
51.04   New construction
   
51.05   Installation required
   
51.06   Existing equipment
   
51.07   Repair and maintenance of equipment
   
51.08   Access for inspection
   
51.09   Certified backflow technician
   
51.10   Notification of public
   
51.11   Records
   
51.12   Violations
Culinary Water Department
   
51.20   Culinary Water Department and system
   
51.21   Applications for connection; service
   
51.22   Fees
   
51.23   Statement of charges; delinquency
   
51.24   Discontinuance of service
   
51.25   Use without payment prohibited
   
51.26   Use without authority; restrictions
   
51.27   Installation of water lines
   
51.28   Pipe requirements
   
51.29   Water main extensions and connections
   
51.30   Access by Department
   
51.31   Motors and certain machinery restricted
   
51.32   Fire hydrants
   
51.33   Scarcity of water
   
51.34   Excessive use of sprinklers
   
51.35   Waste of water
   
51.36   Nonliability for damages
   
51.37   Water user rates
Contribution and Dedication of Water
   
51.50   Short title
   
51.51   Purpose
   
51.52   Definitions
   
51.53   Forty-year water plan and water record
   
51.54   Dedication of water entitlement; acceptance
   
51.55   Fees and charges
 
   
51.99   Penalty
WATER SYSTEM SAFETY
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water, caused by either back-
pressure or back-siphonage.
   BACK-PRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any
source other than the intended source.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. See Appendix J, Chapter 10, of the state’s Plumbing Code as adopted
for specifications of such assemblies.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures which may allow nonpotable water or industrial fluids or other
material of questionable quality to come into contact with potable water inside
a distribution system. This includes any temporary connections, including swing
connections, removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools, dummy sections
of pipe, swivel or change-over devices, sliding multi-port tubes, or other
similar plumbing arrangements.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 WATER SUPPLY PROTECTIONS.
   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or maintained
by the city or other water utility, unless the water supplying the premises is
protected as required by state and city laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 DUTY TO INSPECT ANNUALLY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the water customer to purchase, install,
test, and maintain backflow prevention devices/assemblies where necessary and
to control cross-connections. Certified inspections and operational tests shall
be made at least once a year per state requirements. Where the city deems the
hazard to be great, the consumer may be required to have such inspections and
tests at a more frequent interval, as prescribed by the city.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   The Building Official of the city will review all plans for new construction
to ensure that unprotected cross-connections are not an integral part of the
customers water system. If a cross-connection cannot be eliminated, protection
will be required by installation of an air gap or other approved backflow
prevention device/assembly, in accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code, being
UCA §§ 15A-3-301 et seq., as adopted. Water vacating the drinking water supply
must do so by means of an approved air gap or mechanical backflow prevention
assembly as required by code.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001)
§ 51.05 INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   Whenever the city deems a sufficient hazard to the water supply exists,
installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be required on
the lateral service line of the customer’s water system, at or near the
property line, or immediately inside the building being served, but before the
first branch line leading off the lateral service line, the type of protective
assembly required shall depend on the degree of hazard existing at the point of
cross-connection (whether direct or indirect) so as to comply with local and
state requirements. The city shall test all backflow prevention assemblies
within ten working days after their initial installation.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 EXISTING EQUIPMENT.
   All backflow prevention assemblies existing at the time of this subchapter
is adopted but which do not meet the requirements hereof shall nonetheless be
excluded from the requirements of these rules, provided they were approved for
the purposes described herein at the time of installation and have been
properly maintained so as to function in the manner originally intended. Such
previously existing assemblies nonetheless shall be subject to periodic
inspection and testing required by §
51.03. Whenever an existing assembly is moved to another location or requires
more than minimum maintenance or where it is determined to constitute a hazard
to health, the unit shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention
assembly meeting state requirements.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   The maintenance, including necessary repairs, of all backflow prevention
assemblies and cross-connection control devices required by this subchapter
shall be the responsibility of the customer, and failure to adequately maintain
any required equipment shall be a violation hereof. All installations and
repairs of such equipment shall be effected by a certified backflow technician
as provided in §
51.09 in either case.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 ACCESS FOR INSPECTION.
   A customer system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable times to
authorized representatives of the water purveyor to determine whether cross-
connections or other structural or sanitary hazards exist (including violation
of this subchapter), and to audit the results of the required survey UAC R309-
100-6.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 CERTIFIED BACKFLOW TECHNICIAN.
   (A)   All tests of mechanical devices/assemblies shall be conducted by a
certified backflow technician who will be responsible for the completeness and
accuracy of all tests and reports.
   (B)   Such technicians shall be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Assure that acceptable testing equipment and procedures are used
for the testing, repairing, or overhauling of backflow prevention assemblies;
      (2)   Upon completion of the state-approved test report form, a copy of
that report must go to the city, the customer, and the certified backflow
technician;
      (3)   Include in all reports a list of materials or replacement parts
used;
      (4)   Assure that replacement parts are equal in quality to the original
parts, and that any testing, repair, or replacement does not change the design
or operational characteristics of the assembly;
      (5)   Have a current license;
      (6)   Be equipped with and competent to use, all necessary tools, gauges,
and other equipment, that is in good operating condition, necessary to properly
test and maintain backflow prevention assemblies; and
      (7)   Tag each double check valve, pressure vacuum breaker, reduced
pressure backflow assembly, and high hazard air gap, showing the serial number,
date tested and by whom, including the technician’s license number.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 NOTIFICATION OF PUBLIC.
   Although failure of a consumer to be aware of this subchapter shall be no
defense to violation hereof, the city shall use all reasonable means to notify
its customers of the hazards of cross-connections and the need for annual
inspection of backflow prevention assemblies.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001)
§ 51.11 RECORDS.
   (A)   The city shall keep reasonable records of cross-connection hazards and
the condition of backflow assemblies, including those records required by the
state and federal agencies.
   (B)   It shall provide tags required by §
51.09(B)(7) upon request by the certified backflow technician.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001)
§ 51.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Service of water to a customer found to be in violation of this
subchapter shall be discontinued by the city after written notice of the
violation and appropriate time suspended for voluntary compliance and the due
process entitlements otherwise extended by the city before termination of water
service.
   (B)   A violation exists if:
      (1)   A backflow prevention assembly required by this subchapter for
control of cross-connections is not installed, tested, or maintained;
      (2)   It is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed or
bypassed;
      (3)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises; and/or
      (4)   The periodic system inspection has not been conducted.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 10-10-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
CULINARY WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 51.20 CULINARY WATER DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM.
   (A)   Creation. The Water Department of the city is hereby created. It shall
administer the operation and maintenance of the water system of the city.
   (B)   Superintendent. There is hereby created the position of Superintendent
of the Water Department.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The Superintendent of the water system shall manage and supervise
the city water system pursuant to resolutions, rules, and regulations by the
City Council from time to time prescribing his, her, or their powers and duties
and directing the manner and frequency with which he, she, or they shall make
reports to the City Council relating to the water system.
      (2)   All of the functions and activities of the Superintendent shall be
carried on under the direction of the Council member responsible for the city’s
water system.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 51.21 APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTION; SERVICE.
   (A)   Connection. Any request for water service will be authorized through
the subdivision process of the city. Upon preliminary/final approval of a
subdivision, an authorization for water connections will be issued. Any person,
other than a subdivider or developer seeking multiple connections, who desires
or is required to secure a new connection to the city water system, shall file
with the Water Department for each such connection a written and signed
connection application, which application has been approved by the City Council
and on file at the city office. Said application form shall be adopted by
resolution.
   (B)   Connection by subdividers. Whenever a subdivider or developer desires
or is required to install water connections and extensions for a subdivision or
development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into a written agreement,
which shall constitute an application for permission to make the extensions
and/or connections, and an agreement specifying the terms and conditions under
which the water extensions and/or connections shall be made and the payments
that shall be required.
   (C)   Service. Any person who desires or is required to secure water service
when such service is available from the city water system, shall file with the
Water Department a written application and agreement for the service, which
application has been approved by the City Council and on file at the City Hall.
Said application form shall be adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 FEES.
   (A)   Service rates and connection fees. The rates, penalty fee for
delinquency in payment, connection fee, inspection fee, and other charges
incidental to connection and services from the city water system shall be fixed
from time to time by resolution enacted by the City Council. The City Council
may, from time to time, promulgate rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing,
and collecting charges from water services, and all other rules necessary for
the management and control of the water system. Rates for services furnished
shall be uniform with respect to each class or classes of services established,
or that may hereafter be established.
   (B)   Complaints; corrections. The City Council is hereby constituted a
Board of Equalization for water rates to hear complaints and make corrections
of any assessments deemed to be illegal, unequal, or unjust. They may, if they
see fit, rebate all or any part of the water bill of any indigent person.
   (C)   Returned check service charge. A service charge shall be assessed for
all checks returned by the issuer’s bank unpaid, which have been issued to the
city in connection with the city’s water system. Service charges shall be equal
to any charges assessed the city by its depository bank for processing and
unpaid check, together with an amount equal to 50% of bank charges. Said
service charge may be added to the issuer’s water account, to be paid upon
assessment.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Statement. The city shall furnish to each user, or mail to, leave at
his, her, or their place of residence or usual place of business, a written or
printed statement stating therein the amount of water service charges assessed
against him, her, or them once each month or at such other regular interval as
the City Council shall direct.
   (B)   Failure to pay.
      (1)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally, or in writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the City
Recorder. The Recorder shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Request for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or reason to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   Discontinued service. 
      (1)   If the water service is thereafter discontinued for failure to make
payment, then before the water service to the premises shall again be provided,
all delinquent water charges must have been paid to the City Treasurer or
arrangements made for their payment in a manner satisfactory to the city.
         (a)   In the event water is turned off for nonpayment of water
charges, then before the water service to the premises shall again be provided,
the customer shall pay, in addition to all delinquent water charges, such extra
charge for turning the water on and off as the City Council may have
established by resolution.
         (b)   Until such a resolution has been adopted, there shall be added
an extra charge of $20 for turning on the water.
      (2)   Furthermore, in addition to such payments and penalties, a
delinquent customer may be required to make and file a new application and
deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been applied to the payment of
delinquent bills.
      (3)   The City Recorder is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the
payment of all delinquent water charges by an action at law in the name of the
city.
   (D)   Late charge assessed. A late charge shall be assessed at the rate as
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Any customer desiring to discontinue service shall notify the city in
writing of such fact at least ten days before the date when such service shall
be discontinued.
   (B)   On giving such written notice, the customer shall not be responsible
for water bills incurred after the date specified in the notice.
   (C)   Any credit balance in favor of the customer as a result of an advance
payment of bills or a deposit made will be refunded upon discontinuation of
service.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 51.25 USE WITHOUT PAYMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, family, servants, or agents to
utilize the city’s water system without paying therefor, as herein provided or,
without authority, to open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve, or other fixtures
attached to the system of water supply unless it is done pursuant to proper
application, agreement, or resolution.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to injure, deface, or impair any part of
appurtenance of the water, or to cast anything into any reservoir or tank
belonging to the water system.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 USE WITHOUT AUTHORITY; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Turning on after being turned off prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any person, after the water has been turned off from the premises for
nonpayment of water charges or other violation of the ordinances, rules,
regulations, or resolutions pertaining to the water supply, to turn on or allow
the water to be turned on or used without authority from the city.
   (B)   Separate connections. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for two or more families or service users to
be supplied from the same service pipe, connection, or water meter unless
special permission for such combination usage has been granted by the City
Council and the premises served are owned by the same owner.
      (2)   In all such cases, a failure on the part of any one of the users to
comply with this subchapter shall warrant a withholding of a supply of water
through the service connections until compliance or payment has been made and
in any event, the property owner shall be primarily liable to the city for all
water services utilized on all such premises.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude the power of the city to
require separate pipes, connections, or meters at a subsequent time.
   (C)   Unauthorized users. It shall be unlawful for any water service user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain water services regularly from his, her, or their premises or water
facilities, either outside or inside his, her, or their premises.
   (D)   Adjoining premises. No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water
pipes across lots or buildings to adjoining premises without permission from
the water Superintendent and subject to such requirements relating to controls
as may be imposed by him, her, or them.
   (E)   Visitors. Individuals visiting the premises of an authorized user in a
recreational vehicle, not including a mobile home, and continuing to live
therein during the period of visitation may receive water service from the
service pipes or facilities of the host during the visitation period which
shall not exceed one month. Continued use thereafter shall be deemed
unauthorized and violate the provisions of this chapter relating to separate
connections and unauthorized use.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 INSTALLATION OF WATER LINES.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair,
alter, or connect any water line to the city culinary water system without
first having received a construction permit from the city.
   (B)   Application. Applications for permits to make water connections or
other alteration or for laying or repairing lines connected directly to the
city water system must be made in writing by a licensed contractor, his, her,
or their authorized agent, or by the owner of the premises who shall describe
the nature of the work to be done for which the application is made.
   (C)   Determination of approval. The application shall be granted if the
city determines that:
      (1)   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specifications, and standards of materials required by the city; and
      (2)   Is installed under the supervision of the city’s authorized agent.
   (D)   Installation requirements. All waterline installations shall conform
to the city’s culinary water system standards drawing.
   (E)   Fees. Fees for permits or for inspection services shall be of such
amounts as the City Council shall from time to time determine by resolution.
   (F)   Moving or replacement of water lines. In the event the city in its
sole discretion determines that any water line of the city must be moved or
replaced, the city shall bear the cost.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.28 PIPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Good repair. All users of water services shall keep his, her, or their
service pipes, connections, and other apparatuses in good repair and protected
from frost at his, her, or their own expenses.
   (B)   Digging. No person, except under the direction of the city, shall be
allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of laying, removing, or
repairing any service pipe.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.29 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Extensions. Developers and subdividers shall contract with a licensed
contractor for the installation of any water line extension or connections, and
shall be responsible for all costs associated with this work.
   (B)   Connections. The city will provide all meter hardware for any
connection to the city’s water system, but all installation costs shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
   (C)   Ownership of extensions and connections. Any such extension or
connection to the city’s water system shall be deemed the property of the city
after one year.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30 ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT.
   The Water Superintendent and his, her, or their agents shall have access to
any water services from the city’s system for the purpose of examining the
apparatus and ascertaining the amount of water service being used and the
manner of its use.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 MOTORS AND CERTAIN MACHINERY RESTRICTED.
   No system for the purpose of driving motor, siphon, turbine, or other
wheels, or any hydraulic engines or elevators, or for driving or propelling
machinery of any kind whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued
for any such purpose, except by special permission of the City Council.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.32 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Water for fire hydrants will be furnished free of charge by the city.
Installation and repairs on such hydrants shall be at the expense of the city
and shall be made under the direction of the city. All customers shall grant
the city, upon demand, a right-of-way or easement to install and maintain such
hydrants on his, her, or their premises if the city concludes that hydrants
shall be so installed for the protection of the residents of the city.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.33 SCARCITY OF WATER.
   In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the Mayor
and the City Council be necessary, the Mayor shall by proclamation limit the
use of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any
person, his, her, or their family, servants, or agents to violate any
proclamation made by the Mayor in pursuance of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 EXCESSIVE USE OF SPRINKLERS.
   (A)   Effect on city water system. It shall be unlawful for any person to
use such number of outlets simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or
combinations of sprinklers or outlets as will in the opinion of the City
Council materially affect the pressure or supply of water in the city water
system or any part thereof, and the City Council may from time to time by
resolution, specify combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such
effect.
   (B)   Order to discontinue. The City Council shall, after determining that
such improper use exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the
premises whereon such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such
use discontinued and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.35 WASTE OF WATER.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
      (1)   Waste water;
      (2)   Pressure irrigate residential landscapes between the hours of 10:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Allow it to be wasted by stops, tops, valves, leaky joints, or
pipes, or to allow tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow;
      (4)   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets, or stops, or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks, or other apparatus; and/or
      (5)   Use the water for purposes other than those for which they have
applied, or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply.
   (B)   Refer to City Council. Users of water from the city water system shall
not permit water to continue to run wastefully and without due effort to serve
water. If, in the judgment of the water Superintendent or of any of the
officers of the city, a user of city water engages in practices which result in
the needless waste of water and continues to do so after reasonable notice to
discontinue wastefulness has been given, the Superintendent or any officer may
refer the matter to the City Council.
   (C)   Termination of service; meeting. The City Council may thereupon
consider terminating the right of the individual to use culinary water. If is
elects to consider the matter of termination, it shall give notice to the water
user of the intention to terminate his, her, or their water connection at least
ten days prior to the meeting of the City Council at which termination of water
service is to be considered. The notice shall inform him, her, or them of the
time and place of the meeting and the charges that lead to the consideration of
the termination.
   (D)   Appearance by water user. A water user whose right to utilize city
water is being reviewed shall have opportunity to appear with or without
counsel, and present the reasons why his, her, or their water service should be
discounted.
   (E)   Determination.
      (1)   After due hearing, the City Council may arrive at a determination.
      (2)   If the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user’s
service connection, the City Council shall notify him, her, or them of the
decision and of the period during which the service will remain discontinued.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36 NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   The city shall not be held liable for any damage to a water service user by
reason of stoppage or interruption of his, her, or their water supply service
caused by fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains,
or which occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from
any other unavoidable cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the
liability of the city beyond that provided in the Governmental Immunity Act,
being UCA §§ 63G-7-101 et seq.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 51.37 WATER USER RATES.
   All users:
 
Base rate $42 per month for 10,000 gallons
          $1 per 1,000 gallons for 10,001-15,000 gallons
Overages  $2 per 1,000 gallons for 15,001-30,000 gallons
          $2.75 per 1,000 gallons for 30,001 gallons and over
 
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-12-2016)
CONTRIBUTION AND DEDICATION OF WATER
§ 51.50 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Water Dedication Requirements of the
City of Elwood.”
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 51.51 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that new development within the
city is accompanied by the dedication of water rights or water shares
sufficient to provide for the water demands entailed thereby and that the city,
in requiring the dedication of water rights or shares, complies with the laws
of the United States and the State of Utah, particularly UCA § 10-9a-508 and
any other applicable or successor statutes.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 51.52 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   40-YEAR WATER PLAN. A written plan of the city’s reasonable future water
requirement in the next 40 years, in conformance with UCA § 73-1-4(2)(f).
   APPLICANT. Any party seeking city approval for a planned development.
   CITY. Elwood, Utah.
   CULINARY WATER. Water treated to meet the quality standards for drinking
water, as set forth in Utah’s Safe Drinking Water Act, UCA §§ 19-4-101 et seq.
and UAC Rule 309-200.
   DEDICATE. To convey a water entitlement to the city for culinary use; such a
conveyance is a DEDICATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision, annexation, the obtaining of a building permit,
or any other connection to the city’s culinary or secondary water system which
increases water service from the city.
   ERC. Equivalent residential connection, the unit for calculating the annual
amount of water put to indoor use by a typical detached, single-family
residence.
   FEE RESOLUTION. A resolution or ordinance adopted by the Council pursuant
hereto, establishing fees for water service and delivery by the city or in
connection with any provision of this subchapter.
   FUTURE WATER REQUIREMENT. The amount of water needed in the next 40 years by
the population of the city’s reasonably anticipated service area, based upon
reasonably anticipated population growth, or as a result of some other water
use demand. See UCA § 73-1-4(2)(f)(i).
   MUNICIPAL USE. Has the meaning given and used by the Utah Division of Water
Rights.
   REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT. A written and executed agreement between the city
and an applicant requiring that the applicant reimburse all city expenses
incurred pursuant to a dedication under this subchapter.
   SECONDARY WATER. Water distributed for outdoor irrigation and other non-
culinary uses which is not treated to meet the standards for culinary water.
   WATER ENTITLEMENT. The water rights or water shares dedicated for the city’s
culinary or secondary water system as part of the land-use approval process.
   WATER RIGHT. A right granted and recognized by the State of Utah to
perpetually divert and beneficially use a specified quantity of water.
   WATER SHARE. A proportionate amount of the water right held by a particular
private entity, typically a non-profit mutual water company, represented by
shares of stock issued by that entity to its shareholders.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 51.53 FORTY-YEAR WATER PLAN AND WATER RECORD.
   (A)   The 40-Year Water Plan.
      (1)   Pursuant to the requirements set forth in UCA § 73-1-4(2)(f) and
UAC Rule 655-18, the City Engineer or another qualified person retained by the
city, consistent with all applicable procurement laws, shall create a draft 40-
Year Water Plan to determine the city’s future water requirement.
      (2)   Upon its acceptance, the 40-Year Water Plan shall be adopted by
resolution of the Council.
      (3)   Based upon the 40-Year Water Plan, the city shall undertake to
acquire and maintain sufficient water rights, water shares, source, storage and
capacity for its present and reasonable future water requirements.
      (4)   The city’s 40-Year Water Plan may be updated from time to time as
directed by the Council pursuant to UCA § 73-1-4(2)(f).
   (B)   Water record. The city shall create and maintain a record of its water
rights, water shares, water use, water-source capacity, reserve-source
capacity, storage capacity, system capacity, service connections, outstanding
letters of commitment and other system demands, as well as any surplus capacity
and the number of ERCs such surplus can serve.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 51.54 DEDICATION OF WATER ENTITLEMENT; ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Dedication required for approval.
      (1)   As provided in UCA § 10-9a-508, any applicant seeking city approval
of a proposed development shall dedicate to the city a water entitlement of
sufficient quantity and type to satisfy the proposed development’s anticipated
culinary water and secondary water needs.
      (2)   Compliance with this section shall be a condition precedent to
approval of any application for development subject to this subchapter.
   (B)   Type and amount of water entitlement required for development.
      (1)   (a)   To be acceptable for dedication to the city, a water
entitlement must be:
            1.   Approved by the Utah State Engineer for year-round municipal
use within the city’s service area; and
            2.   Diverted from the city’s designated points of diversion.
         (b)   The city may refuse dedication until the approval required in
this division (B) is final and non-appealable.
      (2)   In determining the required amount of the water entitlement to be
dedicated for a particular development, the city shall consider:
         (a)   The principles set forth in UCA §§ 10-9a-508 and 19-4-114;
         (b)   The diversion and depletion limits of the water entitlement;
         (c)   The city’s 40-Year Water Plan; and
         (d)   Any other relevant factors.
      (3)   Pursuant to division (B)(2) above, the initial amount of a water
entitlement dedicated to the city shall be as follows:
         (a)   For indoor residential or domestic use, a water entitlement with
a depletion of 0.30 acre-feet per ERC, after conversion to municipal use;
         (b)   For commercial, industrial and other uses, a water entitlement
based on an engineer’s estimate, as approved by the City Engineer, of the
projected water demand of the proposed development.
            1.   Until the City Engineer has sufficient information to approve
an engineer’s estimate of the water entitlement, the applicant shall place its
water shares in escrow by delivering one or more original share certificates to
the City Recorder.
            2.   The City Recorder shall notify the issuer of the shares of the
escrow and hold the certificates until the City Engineer is able to provide an
engineer’s estimate.
            3.   The number of water shares to be placed in escrow shall be
determined by the City Engineer.
         (c)   For outdoor secondary or irrigation use, a water entitlement
consisting of a four-acre-foot diversion and a depletion of 1.87 acre-feet per
irrigated acre after conversion to municipal use.
      (4)   The dedication amounts in division (B)(3) above may be amended from
time to time by Council resolution or ordinance.
      (5)   The city may require the dedication of additional water rights or
water shares if the city determines that the proposed development will consume
more water than is required herein.
   (C)   City acceptance of a dedication.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the city shall accept a
dedication of water entitlement that meets the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Prior to accepting a dedication, the city may require that the
applicant:
         (a)   Reimburse the city’s costs and expenses for any administrative
or judicial action undertaken to obtain final, non-appealable State Engineer
approval of the water entitlement; and
         (b)   1.   Purchase a policy of water title insurance on behalf of the
city:
               a.   Naming the city as the insured party;
               b.   In an amount consistent with the value of the water
entitlement, as determined by the city; and
               c.   From an insurance provider acceptable to the city.
            2.   The city may reject a dedication if it finds that the water
rights or water shares to be conveyed or transferred thereby are:
               a.   Defective with respect to legal title;
               b.   Subject to forfeiture or quantity impairment due to the
lack of beneficial use;
               c.   Insufficient in annual quantity, priority, reliability or
flow;
               d.   Unsuitable for municipal use;
               e.   Not reasonably likely to be approved by the State Engineer
for municipal use within the city’s service area pursuant to division (B)
above; or
               f.   Defective in any respect that renders the city’s delivery
of the water to the proposed development impossible or impractical; or
               g.   For water shares that the issuing entity refuses to
transfer the water shares to the city or to consent to the filing of such
applications with the State Engineer as the city may deem necessary.
            3.   The final, non-appealable rejection of an application filed
under this subchapter shall render the water rights or water shares ineligible
for dedication to the city.
            4.   A final, non-appealable order of the State Engineer reducing
the diversion or depletion amount of a water entitlement shall result in a
corresponding reduction in the amount of the water dedication. However, such a
reduction shall not reduce the required amount of the water entitlement.
            5.   Any reduction in the amount or volume of water either,
represented by stock in a mutual irrigation company or a water right, moved to
a city point of diversion for municipal use by the city, shall result in a
corresponding reduction in the amount of the water dedication; however, such
reduction shall not reduce the required amount of the water entitlement.
            6.   The city’s rejection of a proposed dedication shall not
constitute a waiver of nor relieve an applicant from its obligation to comply
with the requirements of this subchapter as a condition of development
approval.
   (D)   Conveyance or transfer of water entitlement to the city. Upon the
city’s acceptance of a dedication, an applicant shall convey to the city,
without cost, the water entitlement delineated therein.
      (1)   (a)   An applicant shall convey water rights by warranty deed and
water shares by transferring ownership thereof through a certificate from by
the issuing entity, or its successor, showing the city as the owner of the
water shares.
         (b)   In lieu of either of these methods of conveyance, an applicant
may convey the water entitlement by any other appropriate instrument of
conveyance approved by the city.
      (2)   The water rights or water shares shall be conveyed free and clear
of any lien, encumbrance or adverse claim, except as the city may expressly
approve and accept in writing.
      (3)   The applicant shall pay all fees and costs associated with the
conveyance or transfer.
      (4)   The applicant shall convey the water entitlement to the city
before:
         (a)   A building permit may be issued; or
         (b)   A final plat may be signed or recorded.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 51.55 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The Council may establish a fee schedule and require an applicant to enter
into a reimbursement agreement to defray the city’s cost in evaluating a water
entitlement offered for dedication and in seeking final, non-appealable
approval of the water entitlement under §
51.54(C)(2)(a).
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Where written notification of a deficiency under §§
51.02 through
51.12 is provided by the city, in the event of a failure by the customer to
take the required corrective action within ten days after the date of mailing
such notice, the city shall immediately discontinue service in accordance
herewith. Water service will not be restored until all such conditions or
defects are corrected.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 10-10-2001)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animal Bail Schedule
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Damage to persons or property
   
90.04   Dangerous animals
   
90.05   Public nuisance created by animals
   
90.06   Animal cruelty
   
90.07   City kennels
Dog Control
   
90.20   Animal Control Officer
   
90.21   Definitions
   
90.22   Dog licenses
   
90.23   Rabies
   
90.24   Running at-large
   
90.25   Barking or howling dogs
   
90.26   Vicious dogs
   
90.27   Limit on number of dogs per household
 
   
90.99   Penalty
ANIMAL BAIL SCHEDULE
§ 90.01 TITLE.
   This resolution codified herein shall be known and may be cited as the
“Elwood City Animal Ordinance Bail Schedule” and may be identified within this
code and other documents as “this subchapter,” “Bail Schedule,” or “Animal Bail
Schedule.”
(Res. 2009-002, passed 2-10-2009)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every living, sentient creature; not a human being.
   CITY. The City of Elwood.
   DOG. Both male and female canines.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, corporation, or association that harbors,
shelters, keeps, controls, manages, possesses, or has whole or part interest in
any animal. The occupant, owner, or head of a household of any premises where
an animal remains for 24 hours or more shall be presumed to be the OWNER of
such animal for the purposes of this subchapter.
(Res. 2009-002, passed 2-10-2009)
§ 90.03 DAMAGE TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   Complaint. Whenever any damage is inflicted on any person and/or
property by an animal, the victim and/or owner of the damaged property may make
a complaint to the city within the next business day following discovery of the
damage.
   (B)   Restitution. If, after reviewing the evidence, the city is satisfied
that an animal committed the damage, it shall estimate values of the injured
person or damaged property. The investigation agents will then determine if the
animal can be reasonably identified, and if so, the owner of said animal will
be liable for making restitution for all related expenses caused by said
animal.
(Res. 2009-002, passed 2-10-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL  means:
      (1)   Any animal which demonstrates behavior and/or possesses the vicious
propensity to inflict serious bodily injury or death upon human beings and/or
other animals, and constitutes a danger to human life or other animals;
      (2)   Any animal which has behaved in such a manner that the owner
thereof knows, or reasonably should know, that the animal possesses tendencies
to commit unprovoked attacks or to injure human beings or other animals;
      (3)   Any animal certified by a doctor of veterinary medicine, after
observation thereof, as posing a danger to human beings or animals; and/or
      (4)   Any animal which, without provocation, assaults an individual or
animal, or any animal which commits an unprovoked act which causes a person,
acting in a reasonable and nonaggressive manner, to reasonably believe that the
animal will attack and cause bodily injury to that person or animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly sell, own, offer for sale, breed, possess,
keep, buy or attempt to buy, or train a dangerous animal within the city,
unless the owner has received proper permits and/or authorizations pursuant to
this subchapter.
   (C)   The owner of a dangerous animal shall be required to:
      (1)   Register the dangerous animal with the city;
      (2)   Obtain liability insurance in an amount not less than $300,000
covering bodily injury or death of any person or animal, or for damages to any
person’s or entity’s property, resulting from the keeping of such dangerous
animals;
      (3)   Restrain the dangerous animal at all times on a leash in the
immediate control of the owner or in a secure pen enclosure;
      (4)   Provide to the city the name and address of the owner, breed, age,
sex, color, and any other identifying marks of said animal, the location where
the animal is to be kept if not at the address of the owner, two color
photographs of the dangerous animal, and the aforementioned certificate of
liability insurance;
      (5)   Provide proof of the required documents necessary to register the
animal, and pay the required annual registration fee of $100. The city shall
provide to the owner a registration tag designating the animal as dangerous.
The owner must place the tag on the animal’s collar and must ensure that the
animal wears such tag and collar at all times; and
      (6)   Not allow the animal to go outside its pen, cage, or enclosure
unless the animal is under physical restraint and securely muzzled. No person
shall permit a dangerous animal to be kept outside its cage, pen, or enclosure
on a chain, rope, or other leash type. Dangerous animals shall not be leashed
to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, and the like. Signs
giving notice of the dangerous animal shall be prominently displayed so that
all persons entering said property are immediately notified a dangerous animal
is being kept at the location.
   (D)   The pen, cage, or enclosure for a dangerous animal must be constructed
from materials of sufficient strength to prevent the animal’s escape, and must
have secure sides, a secure top attached to the sides, and a secure bottom
which is either attached to the sides or constructed so that the sides of the
structure are embedded no less than two feet in the ground.
   (E)   In the event that any animal is declared to be a dangerous animal,
and/or where a wild or exotic animal is found in violation of any provision of
this subchapter or state law, such animal may be seized immediately and
impounded by the city. Where said animal is found at-large and is presenting a
clear and present danger of imminent bodily injury and/or death to the ACO,
other human beings, or animals, the animal may be destroyed and the owner
notified if the owner can be reasonably established.
(Res. 2009-002, passed 2-10-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 PUBLIC NUISANCE CREATED BY ANIMALS.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE means an owner’s failure to control, restrain, or otherwise
allow, either by conduct or condition, any animal to:
   (A)   Engage in conduct which establishes such an animal as a “dangerous
animal;”
   (B)   Be at-large;
   (C)   Cause a disturbance by excessive barking or noise-making near the
private residence or business of another or of any government or public
facility;
   (D)   Produces maggots, flies, odors, or unclean conditions sufficient to
annoy or endanger adjacent property owners, residents, or other individuals who
may be reasonably exposed to such conditions; or
   (E)   Chase vehicles or molest, attack, or interfere with other persons and
animals on public or private property.
(Res. 2009-002, passed 2-10-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   (A)   Animals shall be provided humane care, treated and transported in a
humane manner, and not in violation of any federal, state, or local law, rule,
or ordinance.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he, she, or they:
      (1)   Fails to provide an animal under his, her, or their control and/or
ownership with adequate, wholesome food and water, proper shelter and
protection from inclement weather, and veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering;
      (2)   Having charge or custody of an animal, places or confines such
animal, or allows such animal to be placed or confined in a motor vehicle,
trailer, or other enclosure under such conditions, or for such a period of
time, as to endanger the health of the animal due to heat, lack of food or
water, or such other circumstances as may cause injury or death to the animal;
      (3)   Knowingly owns, harbors, trains, sells, or offers for sale any
animal which is used for the purpose of fighting, or to be trained, tormented,
badgered, or baited for the purpose of causing or encouraging said animal to
attack human beings or animals when not provoked. This shall not apply to guard
dogs or dogs used by local, state, or federal law enforcement agencies;
      (4)   Mutilates any animal, whether such animal is dead or alive. This
shall not apply to medical or veterinary medical research, medical or
veterinary medical autopsies, or biology class use of animals for educational
purposes; or
      (5)   Causes an animal to fight another animal or a person.
(Res. 2009-002, passed 2-10-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 CITY KENNELS.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to establish and operate a kennel for
purposes of animal control. The kennel will be operated under the control of
the city’s Animal Control Officer.
   (B)   The owner of any animal that is impounded in the city kennel will be
charged an impound fee of $30. In addition to the impound fee, the owner of any
animal that is impounded in the city kennel will be charged an additional daily
impound fee of $5 for each day an animal is impounded in the city kennel.
(Res. 2009-002, passed 2-10-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOG CONTROL
§ 90.20 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The position of Animal Control Officer is hereby created.
   (B)   The duties of the Animal Control Officer shall be to carry out and
enforce the provisions of this subchapter and any other applicable regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, molest, hinder, or
obstruct the Animal Control Officer or any of his, her, or their authorized
representatives in the discharge of his, her, or their duties as herein
prescribed.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT-LARGE. Any dog off or away from the premises of the owner, possessor or
keeper thereof, and not under the control of the owner or his, her, or their
agent, chain, cords, or leash.
   DOG. Any canis familiaris.
   VICIOUS DOG:
      (1)   Any dog which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any
person or domestic animal in apparent attitude of attack;
      (2)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or
animals; or
      (3)   Any dog which bites, inflicts injury, assaults, or otherwise
attacks a human being or domestic animal on public or private property.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010)
§ 90.22 DOG LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any dog six or more
months old within the corporate limits of the city without a current dog
license issued by the city attached to or worn on a collar by such dog.
   (B)   Application for such dog license shall be made to the Animal Control
Officer or such other person as the City Council may authorize to receive such
applications.
   (C)   The application shall list the name of the owner and applicant, the
breed, sex, color, and other description of the dog.
   (D)   All licenses issued shall terminate on the last day of April the year
following issuance regardless of the date when issued.
   (E)   The owner of any newly acquired dog of licensing age or of any dog
which attains licensing age after the last day of April of any year shall make
an application for registration and license within 30 days after such
acquisition, or when the dog attains the above stated age.
   (F)   Licenses may be in the form of tags, metal or plastic, suitable for
attachment to the collar or other device to be worn by the dog.
   (G)   The Animal Control Officer or other authorized person shall issue dog
licenses upon application and payment of the appropriate fees.
   (H)   The license fee for any dog which remains unlicensed for 15 days after
the owner or keeper of the dog receives written notice to license the same
shall be twice the amount of the fee set forth in the fee schedule. The
schedule of fees pertaining to this subchapter shall be set by the City Council
and may be revised from time to time.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or cause to be killed any
registered or licensed dog except as provided by law or as herein otherwise
provided, or deprive a registered or licensed dog license, or to put a dog
license on any dog not registered or licensed.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 RABIES.
   (A)   (1)   Every dog shall have a rabies shot every two years, and proof of
a current rabies shot as required herein must be presented at the time of
application for a dog license for every dog older than six months of age.
      (2)   No license will be issued without such proof, except for dogs under
six months of age.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the owner or person having custody or possession of any
dog shall have reason to believe that such dog has rabies, or has shown
symptoms of rabies, such owner or person shall immediately notify the Animal
Control Officer, who shall cause to have an inspection or examination of such
animal performed.
      (2)   The owner or person having custody shall immediately confine such
animal until the inspection or examination is made by the Animal Control
Officer.
      (3)   If it shall appear to the Animal Control Officer, upon examination
or inspection, that a dog has rabies, it shall be the duty of such officer to
have that dog quarantined for the period of time necessary to determine whether
or not the animal has rabies.
      (4)   If, at the time of the quarantine period the animal is still
reasonably suspected of having rabies, the Animal Control Officer shall have
the dog humanely destroyed by an authorized agent of the contracted animal
shelter.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 RUNNING AT-LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to
permit such dog to run at-large.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of a dog to permit
such dog to go upon public property or be upon the private property of any
person without the permission of the owner or person entitled to the possession
of such private property.
   (B)   Running at-large shall be deemed a violation regardless of the
precautions taken to prevent the escape of the dog and to prohibit it from
running at-large.
   (C)   (1)   All dogs, whether licensed or not, found running at-large within
the corporate limits of the city shall be taken up and impounded for a period
of not exceed 72 hours as set out in this subchapter.
      (2)   Any dogs so impounded and not claimed by its owner or keeper within
72 hours or such additional time as may be determined reasonable by the Animal
Control Officer, shall be delivered to the contracted animal shelter.
   (D)   The owner or keeper of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog within
the period of impoundment by paying all impoundment fees at the contracted
animal shelter plus any city impoundment fees as set in the fee schedule.
   (E)   If any dog impounded as herein provided was not licensed, it shall be
licensed according to licensing regulations in effect.
   (F)   If there shall be attached to such dog a tag for the current calendar
year, the Animal Control Officer shall notify the person to whom such license
was issued, at the address given to such license.
   (G)   All impounded dogs not redeemed by the owner or keeper within 72 hours
or such additional time as may be determined reasonable by the Animal Control
Officer may be sold for the best price obtainable, at either public or private
sale, or otherwise humanely disposed of at the contracted animal shelter.
   (H)   (1)   Whenever any dog shall be found which appears to be lost or
strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify the Animal Control
Officer.
      (2)   If the finder desires to keep the lost or strayed dog, the finder
shall make every effort to locate the owner.
      (3)   If no owner is located within 30 days, the finder shall have the
dog vaccinated and licensed with the Animal Control Officer or authorized
agent.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor within the
limits of the city any dog or dogs which by barking, howling, or yelping
disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or person.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to allow any vicious dog
to be outside of the dwelling of the owner or keeper or outside of the
enclosure, unless the vicious dog shall be securely muzzled and restrained with
a chain having a minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three
feet in length, and shall be under the direct control of a person capable of
completely restraining the dog and under the direct supervision of the owner or
keeper of the vicious dog.
   (B)   All vicious dogs shall be confined in a locked enclosure. It shall be
unlawful for any owner or keeper to maintain a vicious dog upon any premises
which does not have a locked enclosure. ENCLOSURE means a fence or structure at
least six feet in height, forming or causing an enclosure suitable to confine a
vicious dog in conjunction with other measure which may be taken by the owner
or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF DOGS PER HOUSEHOLD.
   There is no limit on the number of dogs per household. Kennels are allowed
in the city per the city’s zoning code.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalties for maintaining an unlicensed dog are as follows.
      (1)   Upon the first violation, the city will issue a documented oral
warning to the owner of the offending animal(s).
      (2)   Upon the second violation, the city will issue a written warning to
the owner of the offending animal(s).
      (3)   Upon the third violation, the city will:
         (a)   Impose a $25 fine on the owner of the offending animal(s);
         (b)   Obtain a license for the offending animal(s); and
         (c)   Charge the owner of the offending animal(s) for the licensing
fees.
   (C)   The penalties for animals running at-large are as follows.
      (1)   Upon the first violation during any one-year time period, the city
will issue a documented oral warning to the owner of the offending animal(s).
      (2)   Upon the second violation during any one-year time period, the city
will issue a written warning to the owner of the offending animal(s).
      (3)   Upon the third violation during any one-year time period, the city
will:
         (a)   Impose a $35 fine on the owner of the offending animal(s);
         (b)   Impound the animal(s) if necessary; and
         (c)   Charge the owner of the offending animal(s) for all associated
impound fees.
      (4)   Upon the fourth violation during any one-year time period, the city
will:
         (a)   Impose a $70 fine on the owner of the offending animal(s);
         (b)   Impound the animal(s) if necessary; and
         (c)   Charge the owner of the offending animal(s) for all associated
impound fees.
      (5)   Upon the fifth violation during any one-year time period, the city
will:
         (a)   Impose a $140 fine on the owner of the offending animal(s);
         (b)   Remove the animal(s) from the owner of the offending animal(s);
and
         (c)   Charge the owner of the offending animal(s) for all associated
removal fees.
   (D)   (1)   Upon the first instance of an animal causing damage to persons
or property, in addition to the restitution outlined in §
90.03, the city will impose a $100 fine on the owner of the offending animal
(s).
      (2)   Upon the second and subsequent violations of §
90.03, in addition to the restitution outlined in division (D)(1) above, the
city will:
         (a)   Impose a $150 fine on the owner of the offending animal(s);
         (b)   Remove the offending animal(s) from the owner of the offending
animal(s); and
         (c)   Charge the owner of the offending animal(s) for all associated
removal fees.
   (E)   (1)   Upon the first violation of §
90.04, the city will impose a $100 fine on the owner of the offending animal
(s).
      (2)   Upon the second and subsequent violations of §
90.04, the city will:
         (a)   Impose a $150 fine on the owner of the offending animal(s);
         (b)   Remove the dangerous animal(s) from the owner of the offending
animal(s); and
         (c)   Charge the owner of the offending animal(s) for all associated
removal fees.
   (F)   (1)   Upon the first violation of §
90.05, the city will issue a documented oral warning to the owner of the
offending animal(s).
      (2)   Upon the second violation, the city will issue a written warning to
the owner of the offending animal(s).
      (3)   Upon the third violation, the city will:
         (a)   Impose a $25 fine on the owner of the offending animal(s);
         (b)   Impound the animal(s) if necessary; and
         (c)   Charge the owner of the offending animal(s) for all associated
impound fees.
      (4)   Upon the fourth violation, the city will:
         (a)   Impose a $50 fine on the owner of the offending animal(s);
         (b)   Remove the animal(s); and
         (c)   Charge the owner of the offending animal(s) for all associated
removal fees.
   (G)   (1)   Upon the first violation of §
90.06, the city will impose a $100 fine on the offending owner of the animal
(s).
      (2)   Upon the second and subsequent violations of §
90.06, the city will:
         (a)   Impose a $150 fine on the offending owner of the animal(s);
         (b)   Remove the abused animal(s) from the owner; and
         (c)   Charge the offending owner of the abused animal(s) for all
associated removal fees.
   (H)   Any person violating or causing the violation of §§
90.20 through
90.27 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished upon conviction by fine,
community service, and/or imprisonment.
(Res. 2009-002, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2010-006, passed 6-29-2010)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Fire Protection
   
91.01   Open burning permits
   
91.02   Types of burning permitted
Nuisances
   
91.15   Purpose
   
91.16   Conditions constituting nuisance
   
91.17   Responsibility for nuisances
   
91.18   Appointment and duties of Nuisance Inspector
   
91.19   Dangerous buildings
   
91.20   Nuisance hearing
   
91.21   Failure to comply
   
91.22   Collection of expenses
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 91.01 OPEN BURNING PERMITS.
   (A)   All burning permits issued within the geographical limits of the
county, shall require, in addition to any other conditions imposed by the
county or other authority, the following.
      (1)   No fires shall be ignited before 10:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m.,
provided, further, all fires shall be completely extinguished one hour before
sunset.
      (2)   The geographical area of the county shall be divided into 12 zones,
numbered 1-12 as shown on the table below, and the maximum number of acres per
zone which may be actually burning at any given time shall be dependent upon
the status of the clearing index for that particular day, all as shown on
Exhibit “B” attached to the ordinance codified herein.
Stubble Fields Allowable Acres to Burn
     Clearing Index
Zone 0-499 500-699 700-999 1000+
Stubble Fields Allowable Acres to Burn
     Clearing Index
Zone 0-499      500-699 700-999 1000+
1    NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
2    NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
3    NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
4    NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
5    NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
6    NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
7    NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
8    NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
9    NO BURNING 25 A    50 A    100 A
10   NO BURNING 25 A    50 A    100 A
11   NO BURNING 50 A    75 A    400 A
12   NO BURNING 25 A    50 A    100 A
Notes to Table:
A= Number of acres burning at any given time
Call into dispatch prior to burning and after completion
Reduce allowable acreage in zone by 50% if corn stubble is being burned
 
      (3)   (a)   When the clearing index is less than 500 feet within the
corporate limits of the county, no burning shall occur within the corporate
limits of the county, except such limited burning as may be allowed at the
discretion of the county’s Fire Marshal.
         (b)   The county’s Fire Marshal shall, in exercising his, her, or
their discretion, consider the time of day, the potential for the clearing
index to rise above 500 feet, the difference in the clearing index between the
point of measurement and the point of proposed burning, the number of fires
already burning, if any, the quantity of material to be consumed in the
proposed burning, the quality of the material to be consumed in the proposed
burning, and the length of the proposed burn.
      (4)   No burning shall occur in any area which has received any
precipitation within the immediately preceding 24 hours prior to the ignition
of any fire.
      (5)   All ashes must be incorporated into the ground within 24 hours of
the fire being extinguished, with the exception of fence lines, ditches, ditch
banks, levees, and canals.
      (6)   All burning fires must be supervised and tended by an individual
actually remaining at the site of the fire at all times while the fire is
burning.
   (B)   The county’s Fire Marshal shall establish a reasonable procedure
whereby persons seeking burning permits will be able to obtain the same upon
application, assuming burning is permitted under provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   All permittees must have the permit in possession before commencing
any burning, and the permit shall be present at the site of the fire at all
times supervision of the fire is required by this subchapter.
   (D)   A burning permit is not required for the burning of fence lines on
cultivated lands, canals, or irrigation ditches where burning will not pose a
threat to forest, range, or watershed lands, provided due care is used in the
control of the burning, and that the individual notifies the county’s Sheriff
Dispatch Office of the approximate time the burning will occur.
   (E)   No permits for burning will be issued for any Sunday or any Monday,
nor shall any permits be issued during the week when the County Fair is held,
from Tuesday through and including Saturday of that week.
(Ord. 177, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 254, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 TYPES OF BURNING PERMITTED.
   (A)   Unless prohibited by state statutes or regulations, other county
ordinances, applicable declarations of closed fire seasons, the order of a law
enforcement officer, the county’s Fire Marshal or his, her, or their duly
authorized agent, the following types of burning are permitted, providing that
a county permit has first been obtained and subject to the provisions and
restrictions herein:
      (1)   The burning of prunings from trees, bushes, and plants, or of dead
or diseased trees, bushes, and plants, including stubble, incidental to
horticultural or agricultural operations;
      (2)   Open burning of materials or structures when conducted under the
control and supervision of the county’s Fire Marshal;
      (3)   Fires for firefighter training purposes when conducted under the
direct control and supervision of the county’s Fire Marshal;
      (4)   Other open burning for special purposes or under unique
circumstances when approved by the county’s Fire Marshal and the county’s
Health Department following a formal request therefor; and
      (5)   Fires on any county property including roads, rights-of-way,
ditchbanks, river bottomlands, wildlands, or other areas of county domain.
   (B)   The consent of the state’s Division of Wildlife Resources shall be
required for any fires on any property leased, owned, or controlled by that
Division as wildlands or wildlife habitats.
(Ord. 177, passed 4-14-1992) Penalty, see §
91.99
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a means whereby the
city may remove or abate or cause the removal or abatement of injurious and
noxious weeds, and of garbage, refuse, or any unsightly or deleterious objects
or structures pursuant to the powers granted to it by UCA Title 10, Ch. 11, as
amended, and pursuant to its general power to abate nuisances.
   (B)   The provisions adopted herein are intended to:
      (1)   Prevent fire hazards;
      (2)   Prevent insect and rodent harborages;
      (3)   Prevent the introduction of hazardous pollens in the air;
      (4)   Prevent further spreading of vegetation which threaten the public
health, safety, or welfare;
      (5)   Abate the existence of objects, structures, or solid waste which
threatens the public health, safety, and welfare; and
      (6)   Protect and promote the public health and safety of the community
by preventing or abating conditions which create or maintain public nuisances.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007)
§ 91.16 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.
   Without limiting or impairing the effect of other sections of this code of
ordinances, the following conditions shall constitute a nuisance subject to
abatement under this subchapter:
   (A)   Vegetation on private property which, due to its proximity to any
public property or public right-of-way, interferes with the public safety or
lawful use of the public property or right-of-way;
   (B)   Weeds, unmaintained grasses, or noxious vegetable growth which has
grown to a height exceeding ten inches;
   (C)   Vegetable waste, litter, garbage, filth, or refuse of any nature,
kind, or description detrimental to health allowed to accumulate upon any
private property, yard, or area;
   (D)   Any property which has been allowed to become a fire hazard due to the
accumulation of garbage, refuse, litter, waste products, dry or drying weeds,
or any combustible materials, objects, or structures;
   (E)   Weeds, garbage, refuse, objects or structures that create a source of
contamination or pollution of water, air, or property, a danger to health, a
breeding place of habitation for insects, rodents, or other forms of life
deleterious to human habitation, or that otherwise creates a condition
deleterious to their surroundings;
   (F)   The presence of noxious weeds, as designated by the state’s
Commissioner of Agriculture, pursuant to UCA § 4-17-103;
   (G)   Vegetation or structures obstructing the view of drivers of motor
vehicles on public streets, highways, or byways;
   (H)   Any property where the outside storage, keeping, accumulation, or
abandonment of the following unsightly material or objects is clearly visible
from a public street and is not a use of property permitted or allowed under
the city’s zoning code:
      (1)   Uncontained garbage, refuse, litter, or other solid waste;
      (2)   Auto parts, tires, scrap metal, machinery, or parts thereof;
      (3)   Junk, abandoned items, or salvage material, including but not
limited to construction supplies or household goods; and/or
      (4)   Any inoperable, unlicensed, or unregistered vehicles.      
   (I)   Any toilet or sewage facility not constructed or maintained in
accordance with the city ordinances;
   (J)   The blockage of any water drainage system, where such blockage is
inconsistent with the design or intent of the drainage system, so as to cause
the water to back up and overflow from the drainage system or to become
unsanitary;
   (K)   Any condition which unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to
obstruct any public park, street, or highway;
   (L)   Any graffiti or signage consisting of vulgar or indecent words or
images, which is clearly visible from a public street or highway; and
   (M)   Any act or omission outlined in UCA §§ 76-10-801 through 76-10-803 and
78B-6-1101.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 RESPONSIBILITY FOR NUISANCES.
   Property owners shall be responsible for any of the above conditions
existing on his, her, or their property or the area between his, her, or their
property line and the curb or edge of the public roadway.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF NUISANCE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of Nuisance Inspector whose
duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Until another
person is designated, the City Council shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. More than one person may be appointed to act as Nuisance Inspector
under this section.
   (B)   The Nuisance Inspector is authorized to:
      (1)   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter; and
      (2)   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all
buildings, structures, lots, or places for the purpose of determining whether
such are in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   If the Nuisance Inspector concludes that there exists an objectionable
condition in violation of this subchapter, the Inspector shall:
      (1)   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions of
the premises where such objects and conditions exist; and
      (2)   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to
the owner and occupant at his, her, or their last known post office addresses,
as disclosed by the records of the County Assessor or as otherwise ascertained,
requiring such owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or
destroy and remove the same within such time as the Inspector may designate,
provided that any person notified pursuant to this division (C)(2) shall be
given at least ten but not more than 20 days, as determined by the Inspector
following the date of service of such notice, to correct the objectionable
condition. The notice shall:
         (a)   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation and
generally describe the premises on which the violation exists;
         (b)   Inform the owner, occupant, or other person that in the event
he, she, or they disagrees with the determination of the Inspector and does not
wish to comply with the provisions of the notice or that he, she, or they
objects to the factual or legal basis for the notice, he, she, or they may
request in writing a hearing before the Nuisance Abatement Board of Appeals
(“NABA”) at a time and place to be set by the NABA; and
         (c)   Inform the person that in the event he, she, or they fails or
neglects to correct the objectionable conditions, the city will correct the
objectionable condition by either a court action, in which case he, she, or
they will be assessed such costs together with reasonable attorneys’ fees and
court costs, or will charge the cost of correcting the violation against the
property as a tax.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007)
§ 91.19 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The most recent edition of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings, printed as a code in book-form by the International
Conference of Building Officials (being adopted by reference in UAC R156-15A-
401 and providing for a just, equitable, and practicable method whereby
buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb, health,
morals, property, safety, or welfare of the general public or their occupants,
may be required to be repaired, vacated, or demolished), three copies of which
have been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the City
Clerk, is hereby approved and adopted as the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
Code of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code shall
apply to all dangerous buildings as therein defined, which now exist or which
may exist or hereafter be constructed in the city.
   (C)   All buildings or structures which are required to be repaired under
the provisions of the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code of the
International Building Code.
   (D)   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined after
inspection by the building official to be dangerous, as defined in the
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code, are hereby declared to be public
nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitations, demolition, or
removal in accordance with procedures specified in § 401 of the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings Code, being adopted by reference in UAC R156-15A-401.
   (E)   In order to interpret provisions of the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings Code and to hear appeals provided for thereunder, there is hereby
established an Abatement of Dangerous Building Board of Appeals consisting of
five members who shall not be employees of the municipality. The Building
Official shall be an ex officio member of and shall act as Secretary to the
Board. The Board may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its
business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
applicant with a copy to the Building Official. Appeals to the Board shall be
processed in accordance with the provisions contained in the adopted codes.
Copies of all rules and regulations adopted by the Board shall be delivered to
the Building Official who shall make them accessible to the public without
cost.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 NUISANCE HEARING.
   (A)   In order to interpret provisions of the nuisance ordinance codified
herein, and to hear appeals provided for thereunder, there is hereby
established an Nuisance Abatement Board of Appeals (“NABA”) consisting of five
members who shall not be employees of the municipality. The Nuisance Inspector
shall be an ex officio member of and shall act as Secretary to the Board. The
NABA may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its business and
shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the applicant with a copy
to the Nuisance Inspector. Copies of all rules and regulations adopted by the
NABA shall be delivered to the Nuisance Inspector, who shall make them
accessible to the public without cost.
   (B)   A written application for a hearing to the NABA shall state the time
within which the person must conform to the provisions of the nuisance notice.
A written application for a hearing must be mailed to the NABA within ten
working days of the service of the notice issued by the Nuisance
Inspector.       
   (C)   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a hearing,
the NABA shall set the time and place for hearing objections and the Clerk
shall notify the owner, occupant, or other persons in writing of the time and
place at which he, she, or they may appear and be heard. The hearing shall not
be heard within less than five working days from the date of service or mailing
of the notice of hearing.
   (D)   (1)   Upon a proper application for hearing from an owner, occupant,
or other person having an interest in property which is the subject of notice
to remove or abate weeds, objectionable conditions, or objects from the
property, the NABA shall conduct an informal hearing (which need not be
reported) wherein such persons may present such evidence and argument as is
pertinent to the question of whether or not the removal or abatement of the
objects or conditions is property within the purview of this subchapter.
      (2)   The NABA shall also permit the presentation of evidence and
argument by the Inspector and other interested parties. Thereafter, within not
less than five nor more than ten days, the NABA as it may designate, render its
written decision, a copy of which shall be mailed or served upon the owner or
other person to whom original notice was given by the Inspector.
   (E)   In the event the decision of the NABA upholds the determination of the
Inspector, the notice originally given by the Inspector as above provided shall
be deemed to be sufficient to require the owner or occupant to remove or abate
the objectionable objects or conditions, and he, she, or they shall have up to
ten days from the date of notice of the decision within which to conform
thereto, unless additional time, not to exceed 30 days, is authorized by the
Inspector.
   (F)   (1)   In the event that the decision of the NABA either overrules or
modifies the determination of the Inspector, the written decision of the NABA
either overrules or modifies the determination of the Inspector, the written
decision of the NABA shall apprise the owner or occupant of that fact and set
forth the details and extent to which the owner or occupant must make removal
or other abatement of the objectionable objects or conditions, if any.
      (2)   The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to the decision
of the NABA within ten days after service or mailing of a copy of the decision,
and the decision shall be deemed to be the modified decision of the Inspector
unless additional time is authorized by the NABA.
   (G)   The Inspector shall file an amended notice and proof of service of
notice and file the same in the office of County Treasurer.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Abatement. If any owner, occupant, or other person having an interest
in land described in such notice or decision to whom the notice was given shall
fail or neglect to conform to the requirements thereof relating to the
eradication, destruction, or removal of such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects,
or structures, the Inspector shall employ all necessary assistance to cause
such objectionable objects or condition to be removed or destroyed at the
expense of the city.
   (B)   Itemized statement. The Inspector shall prepare an itemized statement
of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of nuisances, and shall
mail a copy thereof to the owner, occupant or both, or to persons having an
interest in the property, demanding payment within 20 days of the date of
mailing, the notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail
addressed to the last known address of the property owner, occupant, or person
having an interest in the property.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 COLLECTION OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Failure to make payment. In the event the owner, occupant, or person
having an interest in the property, fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the City Treasurer within 20 days, the Inspector
either may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law, or may
refer the matter to the County Treasurer as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Collection by lawsuit. In the event collection of expenses of
destruction and removal are pursued through the courts, the city shall sue for
and receive judgment for all of said expenses of destruction and removal,
together with reasonable attorneys’ fees, interest, and court costs, and shall
execute upon such judgment in the manner provided by law.
   (C)   Collection through taxes.
      (1)   In the event that the Inspector elects to refer the expenses of
destruction or removal to the County Treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice
of the property owner, he, she, or they shall make in triplicate and itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal of the same,
and shall deliver the three copies of the statement to the County Treasurer
within ten days after the completion of the work of destroying or removing such
weeds, refuse, garbage, objects, or structures.
      (2)   Thereupon, the cost of the work shall be pursued by the County
Treasurer in accordance with the provisions of UCA § 10-11-3, and the
recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and shall be subject to such powers
as are hereby granted.
   (D)   Costs of removal to be included in tax notice.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the itemized statement of the cost of destroying or
removing such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects, or structures, the County
Treasurer shall forthwith mail one copy to the owner of the land from which the
same were removed, together with a notice that objection in writing may be made
within 30 days to the whole or any part of the statement so filed to the
county’s legislative body.
      (2)   The County Treasurer shall, at the same time, deliver a copy of the
statement of the Clerk of the county’s legislative body.
      (3)   If objections to any statement are filed with the county’s
legislative body, they shall set a date for hearing, giving notice thereof, and
upon the hearing fix and determine the actual cost of removing the weeds,
garbage, refuse, or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures, and report
their findings to the County Treasurer.
      (4)   If no objections to the items of the account so filed are made
within 30 days of the date of mailing such itemized statement, the County
Treasurer shall enter the amount of such statement on the assessment rolls of
the county in the column prepared for that purpose, and likewise within ten
days from the date of the action of the county’s legislative body upon
objections filed shall enter in the prepared column upon the tax rolls the
amount found by the county’s legislative body as the cost of removing and
destroying the said weeds, refuse, garbage, or unsightly and deleterious
objects or structures.
      (5)   If current tax notices have been mailed, said taxes may be carried
over on the rolls to the following year.
      (6)   After the entry by the County Treasurer of the costs of removing
weeks, garbage, refuse, or unsightly and deleterious objects or structures, the
amount so entered shall have the force and effect of a valid judgment of the
District Court, and shall be a lien upon the lands from which the weeds,
refuse, garbage, or unsightly and deleterious objects or structures were
removed and destroyed, and shall be collected by the County Treasurer at the
time of the payment of general taxes.
      (7)   Upon payment thereof, receipt shall be acknowledged upon the
general tax receipt issues by the Treasurer.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with the
provisions of §§
91.01 and
91.02 shall, for each day for each violation or noncompliance, be guilty of a
separate Class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or
imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, for each offense.
      (2)   Any person responsible for the existence or spread of any
uncontrolled or unattended fire, or any other fire, on public or private
property, necessitating suppression action by the county or state, shall be
liable to the county or state for the payment of all costs therefor.
   (C)   (1)   Any owner, occupant, or person having an interest in the
property subject to §§
91.15 through
91.22 who shall fail to comply with the notice or order given pursuant to §§
91.15 through
91.22 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor for each offense and shall be
liable for the further sum of $25 for each and every day such failure to comply
continues beyond the date fixed for compliance.
      (2)   Compliance by any owner, occupant, or person to whom a notice has
been given as provided in §§
91.15 through
91.22 shall not be admissible in any criminal proceeding brought pursuant to §§
91.15 through
91.22.
      (3)   The commencement of criminal proceedings for the purpose of
imposing penalties for violations of §§
91.15 through
91.22 shall not be conditioned upon prior issuance or the granting to the
defendant of an opportunity to abate or remove the nuisance. The provisions of
§§
91.15 through
91.22 relating to notice and abatement shall be deemed merely alternative and
additional methods of securing conformity to the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.22.
(Ord. 177, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-10-2007)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOL-RELATED BUSINESSES
      
112.   TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   PAWNSHOPS
      
114.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
115.   DAY CARE CENTERS
      
116.   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATIONS AND SALES
      
117.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Non-Temporary Businesses
   
110.01   Business license required
   
110.02   Business license to convicted felon
   
110.03   Classification of businesses
   
110.04   License fees
   
110.05   Display of business license
   
110.06   Licenses not transferable
   
110.07   Verification of business records
   
110.08   Definition
   
110.09   License cancellation
   
110.10   Nuisance
Temporary Businesses
   
110.25   Definition
   
110.26   Application for permit
   
110.27   Investigation
   
110.28   Permit fees
   
110.29   Permits not transferable
 
   
110.99   Penalty
NON-TEMPORARY BUSINESSES
§ 110.01 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business within the
city without first obtaining a license for doing so, and it shall be unlawful
to continue in business without maintaining a valid business license. It shall
also be unlawful to continue in business once a license for such business has
been suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Application for a business license shall be made to the City Recorder.
An applicant is any person applying for any license provided in this title. If
the person is a partnership or corporation, then each partner, member, officer,
or director is considered an applicant and must qualify accordingly.
   (C)   Applicants shall present to the City Recorder the following:
      (1)   The name under which the business is to be conducted;
      (2)   The name of the applicant:
         (a)   If a corporation is the applicant, the names and addresses of
the corporation’s President and Secretary must be supplied; and
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of
all partners must be supplied.
      (3)   Address of the business to be conducted;
      (4)   The nature of the business;
      (5)   The estimated number of persons to be employed; and
      (6)   Information required for the city to make the determinations under
§
110.02.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 BUSINESS LICENSE TO CONVICTED FELON.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council hereby declares that it possesses a duty to
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the city.
      (2)   It also declares that it holds a duty to encourage, protect, and
foster an individual’s right to free enterprise and business within the
municipal boundaries of the city.
      (3)   The City Council further finds that these two duties conflict when
balancing the need to protect its residents and allowing persons convicted of
crimes involving dishonesty or convicted of crimes involving abuse, injury, or
harm to a person to own or operate a business within the city.
      (4)   (a)   A CRIMINAL CONVICTION is the final entry of conviction,
whether by plea of no contest, guilty, or entry of a judicial or jury finding
of guilt which has not been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas
corpus.
         (b)   A CRIMINAL CONVICTION means the offense of which the person was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council acknowledges that a person convicted of or a
crime injuring or harming another has the right, after satisfying the
convictions or judgments against him, her, or them, to conduct his, her, or
their life with the understanding and belief that his, her, or their debt has
been paid.
      (2)   However, the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents
of the city demand a balance between a person’s right to do business when
convicted of crimes involving dishonesty or crimes involving abuse, injury, or
harm to a person and the safety of the city’s residents.
      (3)   Therefore, it shall be unlawful for a person convicted of a felony
less than ten years prior to the date of application for a business license to
obtain a business license in the city.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Businesses within the city limits shall be classified by the average
number of employees of the business.
   (B)   Businesses shall be classified by business classifications A through
E.
   (C)   The following represents the classifications for business using the
average number of employees:
 
Number of Employees Class
Zero to three       A
Four                B
Five or six         C
Seven or eight      D
Over eight          E
 
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   All license fees for existing businesses shall be paid on or before
December 31 of each calendar year. License fees shall be the same for new
businesses, regardless of the date during the calendar year the license is
obtained.
   (B)   Business license fees shall be set through policy and may be amended
from time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   In addition to the business license fee required for any business,
specific types of businesses as set forth in this subchapter shall be imposed
additional fees to cover costs of additional regulation of those businesses.
All additional license fees shall be set through policy by the City Council.
   (D)   Businesses owned or primarily operated by physically or mentally
handicapped individuals qualified under ADA definitions are hereby exempted
from all the fees associated with business licensing, except any fee imposed
pursuant to division (C) above.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 DISPLAY OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   All business licensees of the city shall keep the license received
from the city in a conspicuous location in the business.
   (B)   If the business has no fixed place of business within the city, the
licensee or agent of the licensee carrying on business must carry the license
on his, her, or their person while doing business within the city.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Business licenses obtained under this subchapter maybe transferred to
a new business owner if the business is sold and the name, location, and
purpose of the business remain unchanged.
   (B)   If a business is sold or if the same owner moves to a different
location, notice must be given to the city within ten days of such sale or
move. A license transfer fee shall be imposed by policy.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 VERIFICATION OF BUSINESS RECORDS.
   (A)   The City Recorder is hereby authorized to inspect the records of any
business licensed by the city for the purpose of determining whether
information supplied on business license applications is true.
   (B)   The City Recorder may only inspect the records of a business to
determine truth of the information supplied on business license applications
when good cause is shown to believe the information was provided falsely.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any marketing activity conducted for the sale of goods or services
for a profit.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 110.09 LICENSE CANCELLATION.
   The City Council may revoke any license granted under this subchapter if the
licensee violates any provision of this subchapter or for such other cause as
is justified under law.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 NUISANCE.
   Any violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In
addition to any other relief provided by this subchapter, the city may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this subchapter. Such application for relief
may include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction, or
permanent injunction.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
TEMPORARY BUSINESSES
§ 110.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS. The sale of goods or services sold by a business being
operated in the city for less than 48 hours or operating out of a vehicle,
truck, trailer, or other mobile unit.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 110.26 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for permit to run a temporary business under this
subchapter shall be made at the city office. Such application shall be sworn to
or filed with the city at least three weeks prior to the time in which the
permit applied for shall become effective.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and/or headquarters of the person applying for
the permit;
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
the applicant’s principal officers and managers;
      (3)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the temporary business;
      (4)   The time within which the temporary business will be operated and
the location of the temporary business in the city; and
      (5)   Any application for a temporary permit must also be signed by the
party on whose property the temporary business shall be located.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall examine or cause to be examined each
application filed under this subchapter for a permit and shall make or cause to
be made such further investigations of the applicant as is deemed necessary.
   (B)   The permit will be issued when the City Recorder determines the
following:
      (1)   All the statements made in the application are true;
      (2)   The applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transactions or
enterprise;
      (3)   Nothing in this proposal will violate any provision of the city’s
zoning code; and
      (4)   The application has been approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall pay to the city the
appropriate fee, which shall be set through policy. The temporary license shall
allow a temporary business to operate for 48 hours or less within the city.
   (B)   An applicant for a temporary business may secure a permit, which will
allow him, her, or them to operate the temporary business off and on through
one calendar year. The fee for the year-long temporary permit shall be set
through policy.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter is nontransferable.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this business title shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine in a sum not to exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six
months or by both such fine and imprisonment. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during on or which a violation occurs or
continues. Any business renewing a business license after December 31 shall be
assessed a late fee, which shall be set through policy and may be amended from
time to time by the City Council.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL-RELATED BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Licensing of business serving or selling alcoholic beverages
   
111.02   Beer license
   
111.03   Sale of alcohol-related business
   
111.04   Class A beer license
   
111.05   Class B beer license
   
111.06   Class C beer license
   
111.07   Class D beer license
   
111.08   Seasonal beer license
   
111.09   Beer licensee who does not hold vested right in license
§ 111.01 LICENSING OF BUSINESS SERVING OR SELLING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   This section applies to all businesses subject to state regulation
pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, UCA Title 32B.
   (B)   No business regulated under the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act shall
receive a license from the city unless it is in full compliance with the
regulations of UCA Title 32B.
   (C)   All portions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act relevant to the
city are hereby incorporated into this section as part of the city’s code.
   (D)   Any business violating the provisions of UCA Title 32B shall be
subject to having its license revoked.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.02 BEER LICENSE.
   (A)   Business owners seeking to sell beer in retail establishments shall
apply for a beer license under this section. License fees for beer licenses
shall be set through policy by the City Council. Beer licenses shall be
classified into separate classifications set forth under §§
111.04 through
111.08.
   (B)   Applications for a beer license must be accompanied by proof of state
licensing.
   (C)   The city may not grant a retail beer license to a person or to a
business whose proprietor has been convicted of:
      (1)   A felony under any federal or state law;
      (2)   Any violation of any federal or state law or local ordinance
concerning the sale, manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages; or
      (3)   Of any crime involving moral turpitude.
   (D)   In the case of a partnership or corporation, the requirements under
division (C) above apply if any partner, managing agent, or officer, director,
or stockholder who holds at least 20% of the total issued and outstanding stock
of an applicant corporation has been convicted of any offenses as provided in
division (C) above.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.03 SALE OF ALCOHOL-RELATED BUSINESS.
   If any business regulated under this chapter does not immediately notify the
city of any change in ownership of the beer or alcohol retailer, or in the case
of a state corporate owner of any change in the officers or directors, the City
Council may suspend or revoke the license.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.04 CLASS A BEER LICENSE.
   The Class A beer license shall grant to the holder thereof the right to sell
beer in original containers with a duration of the license so long as the
holder of the license complies with applicable ordinances and state statute.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 111.05 CLASS B BEER LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a Class B beer license shall be authorized to sell beer
at retail in the original containers for consumption on the premises. Class B
beer licenses shall only be issued to restaurants holding a qualified business
license within the city. In addition, only bona fide restaurants shall have the
right to apply for a Class B beer license.
   (B)   All Class B beer licenses shall maintain a record, which details the
gross amounts of beer sold, gross amounts of food served, and any other items
sold for consumption on or off the premises for each semiannual period of each
year. Such records shall be made available for inspection or audit by the city
at any time following the close of the semiannual period, and for 18 months
hereafter. Failure to properly maintain such records of inspection and audit
shall be cause for termination of the Class B license.
   (C)   If an audit or inspection of such records indicates the sales of beer
on the licensed premises are in excess of 40% of the gross dollar of business
for any semiannual period, the Class B license shall be immediately suspended
and shall not be reinstated until the licensee is able to prove to the
satisfaction of the City Council that in the future the sale of beer on the
licensed premises shall not exceed 40% of the gross dollar volume of the
business.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.06 CLASS C BEER LICENSE.
   A Class C beer license shall authorize the holder thereof to sell beer under
any circumstances allowed under a Class A and a Class B beer license. In
addition, a Class C beer license holder shall be authorized to sell beer on tap
for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 111.07 CLASS D BEER LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a Class D beer license is hereby authorized to sell beer
in original containers for consumption on publicly owned recreational
facilities.
   (B)   The city will not issue a Class D beer license unless the person
seeking the license has first obtained a concession contract or written
permission from the governing body of the recreation facility.
   (C)   Class D licenses shall be valid for a period of one year or for the
term of the concession contract, whichever term is shortest.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 111.08 SEASONAL BEER LICENSE.
   The seasonal license shall authorize the holder thereof to sell beer in its
original containers for a period not to exceed one month.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 111.09 BEER LICENSEE WHO DOES NOT HOLD VESTED RIGHT IN LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a beer license has the right to hold the license only
for the duration of the license or until it is determined that the holder of
the license has violated a relevant portion of the city’s code or state
statute, at which point the City Council may revoke his, her, or their license.
   (B)   All persons seeking a license to sell beer must reapply for a beer
license at the end of each applicable licensing period.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
CHAPTER 112: TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Health and sanitary requirements
   
112.04   Care of instruments
   
112.05   Records
   
112.06   Parental consent
   
112.07   Infections
   
112.08   Pigments; dyes
   
112.09   Bandages and surgical dressings
   
112.10   Certificate of inspection
   
112.11   Inspections
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating a
tattoo establishment without first obtaining a license to engage in such
business in accordance with the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION. The written approval from the Health Officer or
his, her, or their authorized representative that said tattooing establishment
has been inspected and meets all of the terms of this subchapter relating to
physical facilities, equipment, and layout for operation of such business.
   CITY TATTOO INSPECTOR. The inspector, appointed by the city, who shall have
charge over inspecting tattoo establishments to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this part.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The city’s Health Officer from the Bear River Department of
Health.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, company, corporation, or association that
owns or operates an establishment where tattooing is performed, and any
individual who performs or practices the art of tattooing on the person of
another.
   TATTOO, TATTOOED, TATTOOING. Any method of placing designs, letters,
scrolls, figures, symbols or any other marks upon or under the skin with ink or
any other substance resulting in the coloration of the skin by the aid of
needles or any other instruments designed to touch or puncture the skin.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 112.03 HEALTH AND SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   Each person who operates a tattooing establishment shall comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   The room in which tattooing is done shall have an area of not less
than 100 square feet. The walls, floors, and ceiling shall have an impervious,
smooth, and washable surface.
   (B)   A toilet shall be located in the establishment and shall be accessible
at all times the tattooing establishment is open for business. The lavatory
shall be supplied with hot and cold running water, soap, and sanitary towels.
   (C)   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily
cleanable material, shall be painted or finished in a light color, with a
smooth washable finish, and shall be separated from waiting customers observers
by a panel at least six feet or by a door.
   (D)   The entire premises and equipment shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (E)   The operator shall wash his, her, or their hands thoroughly with soap
and water before starting to tattoo; the hands shall be dried with individual,
single-use towels.
   (F)   No tattooing shall be done on any skin surface which has rash,
pimples, boils, or infections or manifests any evidence of unhealthy
conditions.
   (G)   No skin area shall be penetrated, abraded, or treated with chemicals
for the purpose of removing, camouflaging, or altering any blemish, birthmark,
scar, or tattoo.
   (H)   Safety razors with a new, single-service blade for each customer or
patron or a straight edge razor may be used and shall be thoroughly cleaned and
sterilized before use on each customer or patron.
   (I)   The area to be tattooed shall first be thoroughly washed for a period
of two minutes with warm water to which an antiseptic liquid soap has been
added. A sterile, single-use sponge shall be used to scrub the area. After
shaving and before tattooing is begun, a solution of 70% alcohol shall be
applied to the area with a single-use sponge used and applied with a sterile
instrument.
   (J)   Only petroleum jelly in collapsible metal or plastic tubes, or its
equivalent as approved by the Health Officer, shall be used on the area to be
tattooed, and it shall be applied with sterile gauze.
   (K)   The use of styptic pencils, alum blocks, or other solid styptic to
check the flow of blood is prohibited.
   (L)   Inquiry shall be made, and anyone giving a history of recent jaundice
or hepatitis may not be tattooed.
   (M)   Single-service or individual containers of dye or ink shall be used
for each patron, and the container therefore shall be discarded immediately
after completing work on the patron. Any dye in which the needles were dipped
shall not be used on another person.
   (N)   Excess dye or ink shall be removed from the skin with an individual
sterile sponge or a disposable paper tissue, which shall be used only on one
person and then immediately discarded.
   (O)   After completing work on any person, the tattooed area shall be washed
with sterile gauze saturated with an antiseptic soap solution approved by the
Health Officer.
   (P)   The tattooed area shall be allowed to dry, and petroleum jelly from a
collapsible or plastic tube shall be applied using sterile gauze.
   (Q)   A sterile gauze dressing shall then be fastened to the tattooed area
with adhesive.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 CARE OF INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   Storing of instruments. All clean and ready-to-use needles and
instruments shall be kept in a closed glass, metal case, or storage cabinet
while not in use. Such cabinet shall be maintained in a sanitary manner at all
times.
   (B)   Sterilizing of instruments. A steam sterilizer (autoclave) shall be
provided for sterilizing all needles and similar instruments before use on any
customer, person, or patron. (Alternate sterilizing procedures may only be used
when specifically approved by the Health Officer.) Sterilization of equipment
will be accomplished by exposure to live steam for at least 30 minutes at a
minimum pressure of 15 pounds per square inch, and a temperature of 240°F or
116°C.
   (C)   Use of instruments. The needles and instruments required to be
sterilized shall be so used, handled, and temporarily placed during tattooing
so they will not be contaminated.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 RECORDS.
   (A)   Permanent records for each patron or customer shall be maintained by
the licensee or operator of the establishment.
   (B)   Before the tattooing operation begins, the patron or customer shall be
required personally to enter, on a record form provided for such
establishments, the date, his, her, or their name, address, age, serial number
if a member of the armed forces, and his, her, or their signature.
   (C)   Such records shall be maintained in the tattoo establishment, and
shall be available for examination by the Health Officer.
   (D)    Records shall be retained by the operator or licensee for a period of
not less than two years. In the event of a change of ownership or closing of
the business, all such records shall be made available to the Health Officer.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 PARENTAL CONSENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any tattoo establishment to perform any kind
of tattooing service on a person under the age of 18, unless consent is given
by his, her, or their parent or guardian.
   (B)   “Parental consent” means the presence of a parent or legal guardian
during the performance of tattooing upon the minor after the parent or legal
guardian provided:
      (1)   Reasonable proof of personal identity and familial relationship;
and
      (2)   Written permission signed by the parent or legal guardian
authorizing the performance of tattooing upon the minor.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 INFECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, customer, or patron having any skin infection or other
disease of the skin or any communicable disease shall be tattooed.
   (B)   All infections resulting from the practice of tattooing that become
known to the operator shall promptly be reported to the Health Officer by the
person owning or operating the tattooing establishment, and the infected client
shall be referred to a physician.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 PIGMENTS; DYES.
   All pigments, dyes, colors, and the like used in tattooing shall be sterile
and free from bacteria, virus particles, and noxious agents and substances, and
the pigments, dyes, and colors used from stock solutions for each customer or
patron shall be placed in a single-service receptacle, and such receptacle and
remaining solution shall be discarded after use on each customer or patron.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 BANDAGES AND SURGICAL DRESSINGS.
   All bandages and surgical dressings used in connection with the tattooing of
a person shall be sterile.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   An applicant for a license to operate a tattooing establishment shall first
obtain a certificate of inspection from the Health Officer, indicating the
establishment has been inspected and is in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Health Officer may conduct periodic inspections of any
tattooing establishment for the purpose of determining whether or not the
establishment and the persons performing the art of tattooing therein are in
compliance with all applicable health provisions contained within this chapter
and other pertinent ordinances.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or operator of a tattooing
establishment willfully to prevent or restrain the Health Officer from entering
any licensed establishment where tattooing is being performed for the purpose
of inspecting said premises, after proper identification is presented to the
operator.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, may
appoint a City Tattoo Inspector.
      (2)   The City Tattoo Inspector shall have charge of determining whether
or not any tattoo establishment and the person performing the art of tattooing
therein are in compliance with all applicable non-health provisions of this
chapter and other pertinent ordinances.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or operator of a tattooing
establishment willfully to prevent or restrain the Tattoo Inspector from
entering any licensed establishment where tattooing is being performed for the
purpose of inspecting the premises, after proper identification is presented to
the operator.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation and suspension of any license, any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
CHAPTER 113: PAWNSHOPS
Section
   
113.01   Records to be kept; availability to peace officers
   
113.02   Duty to retain goods
   
113.03   Definitions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 RECORDS TO BE KEPT; AVAILABILITY TO PEACE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Pawnbrokers and dealers in secondhand goods shall keep records
containing a description of all articles received by them, the amounts paid
therefor or thereon, a description of the person from whom received, together
with his, her, or their name and address, and the date of the transaction.
   (B)   Such records shall, at all reasonable times, be accessible to any
peace officer who demands an inspection thereof, and any further information
regarding such transaction that he, she, or they may require shall be given by
pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers to the best of his, her, or their ability.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 DUTY TO RETAIN GOODS.
   (A)   All goods received for sell, trade, or pawn by a pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer of goods shall be retained by the pawnbroker or dealer in
secondhand goods for a time period not less than 30 days from the date of
receiving such items, unless expressly permitted to do so by an authorized
peace officer prior to the expiration of the 30-day period.
   (B)   Requirements shall not apply to pawn items redeemed by the person
identified on the pawn records as the original pledge or deposit or of the
item.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Anyone who, as a regular course of business, loans money on the
deposit of personal property, or who deals in the purchase, exchange, or
possession of personal property on the condition of reselling the personal
property back to the pledger or depositor, or who loans or advances money on
personal property by taking such property into his, her, or their possession as
security, and who sells the unredeemed pledges together with such new
merchandise as will facilitate the sale of the same.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person who in the regular course of business
purchases, trades, exchanges, or sells any secondhand merchandise for value.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   All pawnbrokers and dealers in secondhand goods shall abide by all
city ordinances. Any violation shall be a Class B misdemeanor.
   (B)   In addition to any penalties set forth in division (A) above dealing
with pawn shops, any pawnbroker or dealer in secondhand goods who violates the
provisions of this relating to pawn shops and dealers of secondhand goods shall
have his, her, or their license suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Title
   
114.02   Purpose
   
114.03   General applicability
   
114.04   Obscenity
   
114.05   Definitions
   
114.06   Zoning
Licensing and Conditions
   
114.20   Business license required
   
114.21   Business categories
   
114.22   Employee license
   
114.23   Exemptions from license requirements
   
114.24   Legitimate artistic modeling
   
114.25   License; application disclosures
   
114.26   License fees
   
114.27   Submission of application to reviewing agencies
   
114.28   Issuance of license
   
114.29   Changes in information
   
114.30   Transfer limitations
   
114.31   Bond
   
114.32   Term of license; proration of license fee
   
114.33   Location and name
   
114.34   Display of license
   
114.35   License in advertising
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General Plan, see
Chapter 153
   Zoning, see
Chapter 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the “Sexually-Oriented
Business and Sexually-Oriented Business Employee Licensing Ordinance” or “this
chapter.”
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose and object of this chapter to establish reasonable
and uniform regulations governing the time, place, and manner of operations of
sexually-oriented businesses and their employees in the city.
   (B)   This chapter shall be construed to protect the governmental interests
recognized by this chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional
protections provided by the United States and state Constitutions.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 114.03 GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on
certain business activities, which are characterized as “sexually-oriented
businesses” and certain employees of those businesses characterized as
“sexually-oriented business employees.”
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 114.04 OBSCENITY.
   Nothing herein shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of
any matter contrary to the provisions of applicable federal or state laws
prohibiting obscenity or lewdness.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BUSINESS. An adult motion picture theater, adult bookstore, adult
video store, or adult theater.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Holds itself out to be such a business;
      (2)   Excludes minors from more than 15% of the retail floor or shelf
space of the premises; or
      (3)   As one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rent, for any
form of consideration, any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals, photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video
reproductions, slides, or other printed or visual representations, the central
theme of which depicts or describes specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, the depiction or description of which is regulated or
prohibited by this subchapter, or offers for sale or rent any instruments,
devices, or paraphernalia, which are designated for use in connection with such
sexual activities, except for legitimate medically recognized contraceptives.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Holds itself out as such business;
      (2)   Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions
(repeated showing of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
      (3)   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment that:
      (1)   Holds itself out as such a business;
      (2)   Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions
(repeated performances of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
      (3)   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performance in a state of seminudity.
   BUSINESS LICENSE AUTHORITY. The city’s Business License Officer or designee.
   EMPLOY. Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as an
independent contractor, as an agent, or in any other form of employment
relationship.
   ESCORT. 
      (1)   Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes,
visits, consorts with, or accompanies, or offers to date, consort, socialize,
visit, or accompany another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment
or places of amusement, within any place of public or private resort, or any
business or commercial establishment or any private quarters.
      (2)   ESCORT shall not be construed to include persons who provide
business or personal services such as licensed private nurses, aides for the
elderly or handicapped, social secretaries, or similar service personnel:
         (a)   Whose relationship with their patron is characterized by a bona
fide contractual relationship having a duration of more than 12 hours; or
         (b)   Who provides a service not principally characterized as dating
or socializing.
      (3)   ESCORT shall also not be construed to include persons providing
services such as singing telegrams, birthday greetings, or similar activities
characterized by appearances in a public place, contracted for by a party other
than the person for whom the service is being performed and of duration of not
longer than one hour.
   ESCORT SERVICE. An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
   ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER. Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts or
patrons at any location within the city, whether or not said third person is
employed by such escort service, escort, patron, or by another business or is
an independent contractor or self-employed.
   NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. The state of dress in which the areola of the
female breast, or male or female genitals, pubic region, or anus are covered by
less than the covering required in the definition of seminude.
   OUT-CALL SERVICES. Services of a type performed by a sexually-oriented
business employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually-oriented
businesses physical facilities including, but not limited to, escorts, models,
dancers, and other similar employees. Escort services and escort service
runners shall be considered OUT-CALL SERVICES for the purposes of this chapter.
   PATRON. Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or
escort or the customer of any business licenses pursuant to this chapter.
   PECUNIARY COMPENSATION. Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward, or any other form of consideration.
   PERSON. Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership, or
other legal entity.
   SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. A state of dress in which opaque clothing
covers no more than the areola of the female breast and the male or female
genitals, pubic region, and anus with a covering no narrower than four inches
wide in the front and five inches wide in the back, which shall not taper to
less than one inch wide at the narrowest point.
   SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. A business where employees perform or
appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a state of seminudity. A
business shall also be presumed to be a SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS if the
business holds itself out as such a business.
   SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY. Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership
or any other entity or individual which furnishes, books, or otherwise engages
or offers to furnish, book, or otherwise engage the service of a professional
dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a
seminude entertainment business or adult theater.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Out-call services, adult businesses, seminude
entertainment businesses, and seminude dancing agencies, as defined herein.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES. 
      (1)   Employees who work for sexually-oriented businesses in activities,
which relate in any way to the sexually-oriented portion of the business. This
includes all manages, dancers, escorts, models, and other similar employees
sexually-oriented businesses, whether hired as employees, agents, or as
independent contractors.
      (2)   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES shall not include individuals
whose work is unrelated to the sexually-oriented portion of the business such
as, janitors, bookkeepers, cooks, serving persons, bartenders, and similar
employees except where they may be managers or supervisors of the business.
      (3)   All persons making out-call meetings under this chapter, including
escorts, models, dancers, guards, escort service runners, drivers, chauffeurs,
and other similar employees shall be considered SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS
EMPLOYEES.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The human male or female pubic area and anus
with less than a full opaque covering, and the human female breast below the
top of the areola, with less than full opaque covering.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Acts of masturbation, human sexual intercourse, fellatio,
cunnilingus, bestiality, pederasty, buggery, and/or anal copulation between a
human male and another human male, human female, or beast;
      (2)   Manipulating, caressing, or fondling the human genitals, the human
pubic area, the human anus, or the human female breast with the intent to
excite or arouse the actors or any other person; and/or
      (3)   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person for purposes of sexual
gratification or pleasure of the actors or other persons, or the condition of
being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained for purposes of
sexual gratification or pleasure of the actors or other persons.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 114.06 ZONING.
   Sexually-oriented businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall only be
allowed in areas zoned for such use.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
LICENSING AND CONDITIONS
§ 114.20 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It will be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually-oriented
business without first obtaining a sexually-oriented business license.
   (B)   The business license shall specify the type of business for which it
is obtained.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 BUSINESS CATEGORIES.
   (A)   The categories of sexually-oriented businesses are:
      (1)   Out-call services;
      (2)   Adult businesses;
      (3)   Seminude entertainment businesses; and
      (4)   Seminude dancing agencies.
   (B)   No business may be listed for more than one category of sexually-
oriented business, except a business may have licensed both for out-call
services and as a seminude dancing agency.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business to employ or for any
individual to be employed by a sexually-oriented business in the capacity of a
sexually-oriented business employee, as defined herein, unless the employee
first obtains a sexually-oriented business employee license.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.23 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   The licensing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any licensed sex
therapist, licensed physician, licensed nurse, licensed psychologist, or
licensed educator acting within the scope of his, her, or their profession or
employment.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 114.24 LEGITIMATE ARTISTIC MODELING.
   (A)   (1)   The city does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit
legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected
by the First Amendment or similar state protections.
      (2)   The city does intend to prohibit prostitution and related offenses
occurring under the guise of nude modeling.
      (3)   Notwithstanding, a licensed out-call employee may appear in a state
of nudity before a customer or patron provided a written contract for such
appearance was entered into between the customer or patron and the employee and
signed by both the customer or patron and the employee at least 24 hours before
the nude appearance.
      (4)   All of the other applicable provisions of this chapter shall still
apply to such nude appearance.
   (B)   (1)   In the event of a contract for nude modeling signed more than 48
hours in advance of the modeling or appearance, the individual to appear nude
shall not be required to obtain a license pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   During any such unlicensed nude appearance, it shall be unlawful
to:
         (a)   Appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age
of 18;
         (b)   Allow or agree to allow any physical contact between the
contracting party or any third party and the individual appearing nude;
         (c)   Commit prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, solicitation
of a minor, or activities harmful to a minor;
         (d)   Perform or participate in any specified sexual activity; or
         (e)   Allow or agree to allow the contracting party or any other
person to masturbate in the presence of the individual appearing nude.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.25 LICENSE; APPLICATION DISCLOSURES.
   (A)   Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a sexually-oriented
business or as a sexually-oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter,
the applicant shall submit, on a form to be provided by the city, along with
all appropriate attachments, all of the following information:
      (1)   The correct legal name of the applicant;
      (2)   Any other names or aliases used by the applicant;
      (3)   The applicant’s age, date, and place of birth;
      (4)   The applicant’s height;
      (5)   The applicant’s weight;
      (6)   The applicant’s hair color;
      (7)   The applicant’s eye color;
      (8)   The applicant’s present business address and telephone number;
      (9)   The applicant’s present residence address and telephone number;
      (10)   The applicant’s state driver’s license or identification number;
      (11)   The applicant’s Social Security number;
      (12)   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least 18 years
of age or, in the case of employees to be employed in businesses where a
different age is required, proof of the required age;
      (13)   Two color photographs of the applicant clearly showing the
individual’s face and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by a
local law enforcement agency. For applicants not residing in the city the
fingerprints shall be on a form provided by a law enforcement agency located in
the jurisdiction where the applicant resides. Fees for the photographs and
fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant directly to the issuing agency;
      (14)   For any individual required to obtain a sexually-oriented business
employee license to perform out-call services or as a seminude entertainer, a
certificate from the Bear River Health Department, or other health agency or
personnel designated by the city stating that the individual has, within 30
days immediately preceding the date of the application, been examined and found
to be free of any contagious or communicable disease;
      (15)   A statement of the business, occupation, and employment history of
the applicant for three years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application;
      (16)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five-year period immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application, including whether such applicant ever had a license,
permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended, or has
had any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or
suspended in the city or any other jurisdiction. In the event of any such
denial, revocation, or suspension, state the date, the name of issuing or
denying jurisdiction and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation,
or suspension. A copy of any order or denial, revocation, or suspension shall
be attached to the statement;
      (17)   A statement detailing all criminal convictions or pleas of nolo
contendre, except those which have been expunged and minor traffic offenses
(any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as a minor
traffic offense), and the disposition of all such arrests occurring within the
five years immediately preceding the date of the application. The statement
shall include the date, place, and nature of each conviction or plea of nolo
contendre and the sentence imposed for each such conviction or plea of nolo
contendre. The statement shall also identify the convicting jurisdiction and
the sentencing court and provide the case numbers or docket numbers for each
such incident. Application for a sexually-oriented business or employee license
shall constitute a waiver of disclosure of any criminal conviction or plea of
nolo contendre for the purposes of any proceeding involving the business or
employee license;
      (18)   (a)   A description of the services to be provided by the
business, with sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine
what business will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of
usual fees for services to be charged by the licensee and any rules,
regulations, or employment guidelines under or by which the business intends to
operate.
         (b)   This description shall also include:
            1.   The hours during which the business or service will be open to
the public, and the methods of promoting the health and safety of employees and
patrons and preventing them from engaging in illegal activity;
            2.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from
engaging in acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities;
            3.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances; and
            4.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to
promote the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the
transmission of disease, and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or
other criminal activity.
      (19)   (a)   For adult businesses and seminude entertainment businesses,
a diagram drawn to scale of the business premises. The diagram need not be a
professional engineer’s or architect’s rendering; however, the diagram must
show marked internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures and ratings for
illumination capacity.
         (b)   The design and construction shall conform to the following.
            1.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms.
            2.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises,
all windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed ensuring minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
            3.   For seminude entertainment businesses and adult theaters, a
solid physical barrier at least three-feet high and six-inches wide shall
separate all performing areas from areas where customers and patrons are
permitted.
   (B)   In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the proposed business is to be located, the application
must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or equitable owner
of the possessory interest in the property specifically acknowledging the type
of business for which the applicant seeks a license for the property. In
addition to furnishing such notarized statement, the applicant shall furnish
the name, address, and phone number of the owner of record of the property, as
well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to the premises in
which the business is to be located.
   (C)   (1)   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, limited
partnership, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, or any
other non-individual legal entity, the information required for individual
applicants shall be submitted for each officer, trustee, and director of the
applicant entity and for any partner, member, or shareholder holding more than
10% of the stock of the applicant entity.
      (2)   Any individual or legal entity doing business under an assumed name
shall provide the required information for the principle operating under the
assumed name.
   (D)   All corporate and other non-individual entity applicants shall
identify each individual authorized to sign checks for the entity.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.26 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant for a sexually-oriented business license or a sexually-
oriented business employee license shall submit with the application an
application and licensing fee pursuant to the schedule established by
resolution of the City Council. The application and licensing fee may include:
      (1)   An animal business license fee;
      (2)   A one-time, nonrefundable investigation fee; and
      (3)   An annual sexually-oriented business employee license fee.
   (B)   The application and licensing fee shall not be prorated to reflect any
portion of the license year, but shall be paid in full without regard to the
date of application.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.27 SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION TO REVIEWING AGENCIES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
city’s Business License Authority shall distribute copies of the application
and all relevant attached materials to the local or regional Health Department,
the city’s Fire Department or the county’s Fire District, the local law
enforcement agency, the city’s Building Official, the city’s Zoning Official
and the city’s Planning Commission for their review and approval. Each such
agency or department shall limit its review of the application to those matters
under its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.28 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city’s Business License Authority shall approve the issuance of a
license to an applicant within 30 days after the receipt of an application,
unless one or more of the following is found:
      (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age, or any higher age if the
license sought so requires;
      (2)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed upon the
applicant in relation to a sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to answer or has falsely answered a
material question or request for information;
      (4)   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter within two years immediately preceding the application;
      (5)   The business premises do not conform to the standards set forth in
§
114.25(A)(19);
      (6)   The proposed business premises have not received the approval of
the reviewing agencies and departments enumerated in §
114.27;
      (7)   The license fees required by this chapter or by other chapters have
not been paid;
      (8)   The applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendre to a crime
involving:
         (a)   Prostitution, exploitation of prostitution, aggravated promotion
of prostitution, aggravated exploitation of prostitution, solicitation of sex
acts, sex acts for hire, compelling prostitution, and/or aiding prostitution;
         (b)   Sale, distribution, or display of material harmful to minors,
sexual performance by minors, possession of child pornography, any crime
involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child, and/or harboring a runaway
child;
         (c)   Public lewdness or indecent exposure;
         (d)   Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault, rape, forcible
sodomy, forcible sexual abuse, and/or incest; and/or
         (e)   Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses or offenses involving similar elements from any
jurisdiction regardless of the exact title of the offense for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed from the date of conviction
if the conviction is for a misdemeanor offense; or
            2.   Less than ten years have elapsed from the date of conviction
if the conviction is for a felony offense.
      (9)   The applicant is otherwise in violation of this section.
   (B)   If any agency or department enumerated in §
114.27 cannot complete its review of the proposed business premises within the
30-day period, the agency or department may obtain from the city’s Business
License Authority an extension of time for their review of no more than 15
days. The total time within which the city must approve or deny a license shall
not exceed 45 days from the receipt of the application.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application, all departments required to
review the application shall determine within seven days whether or not the
application contains all of the information necessary for processing.
      (2)   Incomplete applications shall immediately be returned to the
applicant with a specification of the items that are incomplete.
   (D)   The time for processing applications specified in this section shall
begin to run from the receipt of a complete application.
   (E)   In the event that a license for a sexually-oriented business or
sexually-oriented business employee has not been disapproved within 30 days (or
45 if an extension has been granted), the city’s Business License Authority
shall issue the license pending completion of the city’s review.
   (F)   Any license issued pursuant to division (E) above may be revoked by
the city pursuant to the revocation procedures set forth in §§
114.24 through
114.26, if, upon completion of a full review, the city’s Business License
Authority determines the license should have been denied.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.29 CHANGES IN INFORMATION.
   Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter
for a sexually-oriented business license or a sexually-oriented business
employee license shall be provided, in writing, to the city’s Business License
Authority within seven days of such change.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.30 TRANSFER LIMITATIONS.
   Sexually-oriented business licenses granted by this chapter shall not be
transferable.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.31 BOND.
   (A)   Each applicant for a sexually-oriented business license or a sexually-
oriented business employee license shall post with the city’s Business License
Authority a cash or corporate surety bond payable to the city in the amount of
$2,000.
   (B)   In the event that funds are drawn against the cash or surety bond to
pay such fines the bond shall be replenished to $2,000 within 15 days of the
date of notice of any draw against it.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.32 TERM OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF LICENSE FEE.
   Sexually-oriented business licenses and sexually-oriented business employee
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid from the date of
issuance through January 1 of the following year and may be renewed each year
by paying the required annual license fees.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 114.33 LOCATION AND NAME.
   (A)   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to
this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any location to
which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by said business shall
require a separate license.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business to do business under
any name other than the business name specified in the application.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.34 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All sexually-oriented businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter
shall display the license granted pursuant to this chapter in a prominent
location within the business premises.
   (B)   All individuals licensed pursuant to this chapter shall carry their
sexually-oriented business employee license on their persons at all time while
engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   (C)   If the individual is nude or seminude, such license shall be visibly
displayed in the same room in which the employee is performing.
   (D)   It is unlawful to fail to show the appropriate licenses while engaged
in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries of the city when
requested to do so by any law enforcement officer or other city official.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.35 LICENSE IN ADVERTISING.
   All sexually-oriented businesses advertisements shall state that the
sexually-oriented business or sexually-oriented business employee is licensed
by the city, and shall include the license number.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter not otherwise classified herein or elsewhere
in this code of ordinances shall be a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
CHAPTER 115: DAY CARE CENTERS
Section
   
115.01   Business license required
   
115.02   Ownership
   
115.03   ADA compliant
   
115.04   Zoning
§ 115.01 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a day care center
within the city without first obtaining a city business license to engage in
such business. A city business license is required prior to obtaining state
license; however, application for state license must be pending state approval.
   (B)   Items required with application for city license:
      (1)   A completed fire self-inspection;
      (2)   A copy of a food handlers permit issued by the state;
      (3)   A kitchen inspection by the Health Department;
      (4)   Copies of state license application and all required documentation
submitted with state application; and
      (5)   Copies of BCI reports clearing all employees.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 115.02 OWNERSHIP.
   If the day care is owned and/or will be titled under a nonprofit group, the
names of all directors or heads of the center must be provided to the city.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 115.03 ADA COMPLIANT.
   Building must be compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
(“ADA”), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., if this is a new use of the building
or if the use of the building changes.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 115.04 ZONING.
   Day care must be an allowed use in the zone in which the building is
located. If day care is a conditional use in the zone, a conditional use permit
must be approved by the Planning Commission and attached to application.
Conditional use permits must be reviewed annually by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
CHAPTER 116: DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATIONS AND SALES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Definitions
   
116.04   Application for license
   
116.05   Review and approval procedures
   
116.06   Written disclosures
   
116.07   Form of license and identification badge
   
116.08   Maintenance of registry
   
116.09   Licenses not transferable
   
116.10   Deceptive soliciting practices prohibited
   
116.11   “No Solicitation” notice
   
116.12   Duties of solicitors
   
116.13   Time of day restrictions
   
116.14   Buyer’s right to cancel
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal
safety, well-being, and privacy in the residences, as well as their ability to
provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political,
or charitable activities and goods and services lawfully in commerce.
   (B)   The city has a substantial interest protecting the well-being,
tranquility, personal safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the
ability to protect citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property.
   (C)   The city also has a substantial interest in protecting citizens from
fraud or otherwise unfair consumer sales practices as well as criminal
activity.
   (D)   There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the
city and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the
rights of those who are regulated.
   (E)   Based on the collective experiences of city officials derived from
regulating business activity, protecting persons and property from criminal
conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens regarding door-to-door
solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement officers and those affected
by door-to-door canvassing and solicitation, as well as judicial decisions
outlining the boundaries of constitutional protections afforded and denied
persons seeking to engage in door-to-door solicitation, the City Council adopts
this chapter to promote the city’s substantial interests in:
      (1)   Respecting citizens’ decisions regarding privacy in their
residences;
      (2)   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
      (3)   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
      (4)   Permitting truthful and non-misleading door-to-door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
   (F)   The city finds the procedures, rules, and regulations set forth in
this chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or attempt to make a home
solicitation sale or door-to-door solicitation within the city without first
obtaining the license required by this chapter.
   (B)   Any person making door-to-door contact with persons within the city,
whether or not a license is required, must meet the duties and prohibitions
outlined in §§
116.11 through
116.13.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BCI or BACKGROUND CHECK. An original or copy, dated no more than 90 days
prior to the date of the application, of either:
      (1)   A state Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal
Identification verified criminal history report personal to the applicant; or
      (2)   Verification by the state’s Department of Public Safety Bureau of
Criminal Identification that no criminal history rising to the level of a
disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
   COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL. A person claiming or appearing to be at least 18 years
of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage in rational
thought, conversation, and conduct.
   COMPLETED APPLICATION. A fully-completed application form, a BCI background
check, two copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to
establish proof of identity, and the tendering of fees required by this
article. Such fees shall be as set forth in the city’s fee policy.
   CRIMINALLY CONVICTED. The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of
no contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The CRIMINAL
CONVICTION is the offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
   DISQUALIFYING STATUS. Any activity requiring the denial or revocation of a
license by the City Council. Such activity includes the following:
      (1)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted
of:
         (a)   Felony homicide;
         (b)   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
         (c)   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
         (d)   Sexual assault of any kind.
      (2)   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or
registered solicitor for:
         (a)   Felony homicide;
         (b)   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
         (c)   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
         (d)   Sexual assault of any kind.
      (3)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted
of a felony within the last ten years;
      (4)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison for any reason within the past five years;
      (5)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted
of a misdemeanor within the past five years involving a crime of:
         (a)   Moral turpitude; or
         (b)   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property.
      (6)   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five years indicating that:
         (a)   The applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in
fraud or intentional misrepresentation; or
         (b)   A debt of the applicant or registered solicitor was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)
(6), or (a)(19).
      (7)   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity for any
felony or for any misdemeanor involving a crime of:
         (a)   Moral turpitude; or
         (b)   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property.
      (8)   The applicant is currently under house arrest or subject to a
tracking device;
      (9)   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest
warrant from any jurisdiction;
      (10)   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction; or
      (11)   The applicant fails to provide the information required in this
chapter in the application submitted to the city.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION. The practice of engaging in or attempting to
engage in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that
person is a competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate
a home solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or
services.
   FEES. The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for
processing the application and issuing the license and/or identification badge.
   FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT. A civil judgment which would be recognized under state
law as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
   GOODS. One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise,
perishables of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered,
provided, or sold.
   HOME SOLICITATION SALES. To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or
services by a solicitor at a residence by means of door-to-door solicitation,
regardless of:
      (1)   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
      (2)   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
      (3)   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a
solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
   MORAL TURPITUDE. Act or behavior that gravely violates moral sentiment or
accepted moral standards of the community.
   “NO SOLICITATION” SIGN. A reasonably visible and legible sign that states
“No Soliciting,” “No Solicitors,” “No Salespersons,” “No Trespassing,” or words
of similar import.
   POLITICAL POSITION. Any actually held belief, or information for, against,
or in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has been issued a current solicitor’s
license by the city.
   REGISTRATION. The process used by the Business License Official to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a license will be granted,
denied, or revoked.
   RESIDENCE. Any living unit contained within any building or structure that
is occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street, or public rights-
of-way.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY. The person or entity responsible to provide
the following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent
individual in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or
attempted to be made by means of a home solicitation sale:
      (1)   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a temporary sales tax number,
computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services, paying the
sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
      (2)   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire
to cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
      (3)   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
   SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES. The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service
(s) that entitle the consumer to rescind the same within three days under any
applicable federal, state, or local law.
   SERVICES. Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
   SOLICITING, SOLICITOR, or SOLICITATION. Any of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise, or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services;
      (4)   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling; and/or
      (5)   To make or attempt to make a door-to-door solicitation.
   SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS. Any person(s) engaged in door-to-door solicitation.
   SUBSTANTIATED REPORT. An oral, written, or electronic report:
      (1)   That is submitted to and documented by the city;
      (2)   By any of the following:
         (a)   A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement
or other city employees with publicly available identification of his, her, or
their name, address, and any other reliable means of contact;
         (b)   City law enforcement, County Sheriff or his, her, or their
deputies, or the Business License Official or designee; or
         (c)   Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any
level of government.
      (3)   That provides any of the following information regarding a
registered solicitor:
         (a)   Documented verification of a previously undisclosed
disqualifying status of a registered solicitor;
         (b)   Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
         (c)   Documented eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
         (d)   Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered
solicitor creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or
welfare of any individuals or entities within the city.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All applications for a solicitor’s license shall be made in writing
upon the forms provided by the city.
   (B)   In addition to the information required by Chapter 110 of this code of
ordinances, an application for a solicitor’s license shall also show:
      (1)   Proof of identity. An in-person verification by the Business
License Official or designee of the applicant’s true identity. Upon
verification of identity, the original identification submitted to establish
proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant. Verification can be
established by use of any of the following which bear a photograph of said
applicant:
         (a)   A valid driver’s license issued by any state;
         (b)   A valid passport issued by the United States;
         (c)   A valid identification card issued by any state; or
         (d)   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
      (2)   Proof of registration with Department Of Commerce. The applicant
shall provide proof of registration with the state Department of Commerce;
      (3)   Temporary sales tax number. The applicant shall provide the
temporary sales tax number for which he, she, or they will be soliciting;
      (4)   Marketing information.
         (a)   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names; and
         (b)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
      (5)   BCI background check. The applicant shall provide an original or a
copy of a BCI background check;
      (6)   Responses to questions determining disqualifying status. The
applicant shall be required to answer questions on the application form to
determine whether the applicant meets one or more of the requirements for
disqualifying status;
      (7)   Fee. Applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the license and/or identification badge; and
      (8)   Execution of application. The applicant shall execute the
application form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury,
that based on the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the
information provided is complete, truthful, and accurate.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The required information shall be provided to the City Recorder by the
applicant for review and approval or denial. As in Chapter 110 of this code of
ordinances, the City Council may revoke a license, provided the City Council
receives information showing that a registered solicitor meets the required
criteria for disqualifying status.
   (B)   If a license is approved the license issued will be valid for term set
forth on the license and badge. The term may be either short-term or for a
longer term as selected by the applicant from the choices of license terms
within the city’s fee policy.
   (C)   No license shall be valid for more than one year.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 WRITTEN DISCLOSURES.
   The application form for a solicitor’s license shall be accompanied by
written disclosures notifying the applicant of the following:
   (A)   The applicant’s submission of the application authorizes, but does not
require, the city to verify all information submitted with the completed
application including: The city may consult any publicly available sources for
information on the applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any
outstanding warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments;
   (B)   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed;
   (C)   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application;
   (D)   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application;
   (E)   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant’s
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection;
   (F)   The city will maintain copies of the applicant’s application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
license is granted, denied, or revoked; and
   (G)   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or revocation of a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 FORM OF LICENSE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE.
   (A)   License form. Should the City Recorder determine that the applicant is
entitled to a license; the City Recorder shall issue a license to the
applicant. The license shall list the name of the registered solicitor and the
responsible person or entity, if any, and the date on which the license
expires. The license shall be dated and signed by the Business License
Official. The license shall be carried by the registered solicitor at all times
while soliciting in the city.
   (B)   Identification badge. For each solicitor’s license issued, the city
shall also issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that shall
be worn prominently on his, her, or their person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the registered solicitor;
      (2)   The address and phone number of the registered solicitor, or the
name, address, and phone number of the responsible person or entity;
      (3)   A recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and
      (4)   The date on which the license expires.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall maintain and make available for public
inspection a copy or record of every completed application received and the
license or written denial issued by the city.
   (B)   The applicant’s BCI background check shall remain a confidential,
protected, private record not available for public inspection.
   (C)   The City Recorder may furnish to the County Sheriff or to the City
Council a listing of all applicants, those denied or revoked, and those issued
a license.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   A solicitor’s license shall be issued only in the name of the
applicant and shall list the responsible party or entity, if any.
   (B)   The license shall be nontransferable registered solicitor desiring to
facilitate or attempt to facilitate home solicitation sales with different
goods or services; or responsible person or entity, from those designated in
the originally submitted completed application, shall submit a written change
request to the Business License Official.
   (C)   An amended license, based on the new information, shall be issued for
the balance of time remaining on the registered solicitor’s previous license
before the amendment was filed.
   (D)   Before the amended license is given to the registered solicitor, the
registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge from the city,
after payment of the fee for the amended license and identification badge.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   (B)   A solicitor shall immediately disclose the following to the consumer
during face-to-face solicitation:
      (1)   The name of the solicitor;
      (2)   The name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is
associated; and
      (3)   The purpose of the solicitor’s contact with the person and/or
competent individual. This requirement may be satisfied through the use of the
identification badge and an informational flier.
   (C)   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his, her, or their true and correct name.
   (D)   No solicitor shall represent, directly or by implication, that the
granting of a solicitor’s license implies any endorsement by the city of the
solicitor’s goods or services or of the individual solicitor.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 “NO SOLICITATION” NOTICE.
   (A)   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a “No Solicitation” sign which shall be posted on or
near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   (B)   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each
residence for the presence of any such notice.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are
exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12 DUTIES OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   (1)   Every person soliciting or making any door-to-door contact shall
check each residence for any “No Soliciting” sign or placard or any other
notice or sign notifying a solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as,
but not limited to, “No Solicitation” signs.
      (2)   If such sign or placard is posted, such solicitor shall desist from
any efforts to solicit at the property, residence, or dwelling and shall
immediately depart from such property. Possession of a solicitor’s license does
not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   (B)   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or making
any other door-to-door contact to ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a”no
solicitation” sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in a home solicitation sale, door-to-door soliciting,
soliciting, or making any other door-to-door contact.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   (D)   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an owner, tenant, or lawful
occupant of private property to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   (E)   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with, or touch another person without the person’s consent.
   (F)   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   (G)   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods, or services of the solicitor.
   (H)   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.13 TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at
a residence before 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m., unless the solicitor has
express prior permission from the resident to do so.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.14 BUYER’S RIGHT TO CANCEL.
   In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer’s signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of “buyer’s
right to cancel” shall be in the form required by UCA § 70C-5-103 or a current
version thereof or any state or federal law modifying or amending such
provision.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty and/or fines as provided in
this code. Each separate day a person violates any provision of this chapter
shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016)
CHAPTER 117: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
   
117.01   Food and beverage businesses
   
117.02   Dances
   
117.03   Exhibitions and carnivals
   
117.04   Tobacco speciality and vapor shops
§ 117.01 FOOD AND BEVERAGE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation in the business of preparing,
distributing, or selling of food or nonalcoholic beverages shall, before
receiving a business license, provide proof to the City Recorder that the
proposed business owner notified the Bear River Health Department of its
intentions to operate a business dealing with food or nonalcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Any food or beverage business operator as defined in division (A)
above shall obey all regulations set forth by the Bear River Health Department
and be liable for disobeying any of those regulations.
   (C)   Any food or beverage business operator as defined in this section may
have his, her, or their license revoked by the city or the Bear River Health
Department for violation of this subchapter or the Bear River Health
Department’s regulations or for any other reason justified by law.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 117.02 DANCES.
   (A)   Applications to conduct a public dance shall be made on forms provided
by the City Recorder, shall be filed in the office of the City Recorder and
accompanied by an application fee set by policy, and shall include:
      (1)   The name, residence, and business address of the manager or person
in charge;
      (2)   The address and the particular room or rooms for which the permit
is required, the square foot area thereof to be used for dancing, and the
seating capacity. The Fire Marshal determines occupancy capacity;
      (3)   The date or dates upon which the dance will be conducted, which
shall not be less than 15 days after the application is filed for a one-time
permit or 96 hours for the one-year permit;
      (4)   The approximate attendance expected;
      (5)   The times at which the dance will begin and end; and
      (6)   A statement in detail of any other entertainment to be provided.
   (B)   Applications to conduct public dances as a business or as an incident
to a restaurant, dance hall, or other business except as a dancing school shall
be made on forms provided by the City Recorder, shall be filed in the office of
the City Clerk and shall include:
      (1)   The name, residence, and business address of the manager or person
in charge;
      (2)   The address, the exact nature of the business, the name under which
it is to be operated and the hours of operation;
      (3)   The square foot area of the room or rooms to be used for dining,
for dancing, for entertainment, and the seating capacity of each such room; and
      (4)   Whether or not the applicant or anyone having a beneficial interest
in the permit, directly or indirectly, has had a permit for the same or a
similar business suspended or revoked anywhere and if so, the circumstances
thereof.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 117.03 EXHIBITIONS AND CARNIVALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate within the city any
exhibitions or carnivals which are open to the public without first securing a
license.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CARNIVAL. Amusement activities, rides, merry-go-rounds, booths for the
conduct of games of skill, food-dispensing facilities, and sideshows. CARNIVAL
does not include gambling devices, games of chance, lotteries, punch-boards, or
other activities in violation of city ordinances.
         EXHIBITIONS. Circuses, menageries, carnivals, sideshows, and other
similar amusement enterprises, which are open to the public and for admission
to which a fee is charged.
   (B)   In addition to other requirements set forth herein, the applicant
shall furnish suitable evidence of his, her, or their intention and ability to
comply with the following conditions.
      (1)   The operator and sponsor of the carnival or exhibition shall each
be wholly responsible for maintaining order, and for keeping the site clean,
free of trash, papers, and other debris. Trash containers in adequate number
shall be placed in convenient locations for the use of the public.
      (2)   (a)   No ride shall be placed in operation for public use until the
same has been inspected for mechanical, structural, electrical, and other
hazards, by the Building Inspector and such other officers or employees of the
city having jurisdiction.
         (b)   Adequate safeguards shall be placed to protect both operators
and the general public from inadvertently coming in contact with moving parts,
belts, motor gears, electrical switches, and other possible or potential
hazards.
      (3)   (a)   No license shall be issued for conducting an exhibition or
carnival until the applicant therefore has placed on file with the City
Recorder a certificate or certificates of insurance indicating that there is in
effect public liability of insurance covering any damages arising out of the
use and operation of any and all devices and facilities operated in connection
with such carnival or exhibition.
         (b)   Such insurance shall be the minimum amount of $100,000 for each
person and $300,000 for each incident.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 117.04 TOBACCO SPECIALTY AND VAPOR SHOPS.
   Any retail tobacco specialty and vapor shop business as defined in UCA § 10-
8-41.6 is prohibited within the city, and no business license shall be issued
for such business.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
151.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
152.   RENEWABLE ENERGY
      
153.   GENERAL PLAN
      
154.   FIRE DISTRICT
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Scope
   
150.004   Definitions
   
150.005   Validity
Administration
   
150.020   Process clarification
   
150.021   Final platting and recording required
   
150.022   Work to be done by registered professional
   
150.023   Approval procedure
   
150.024   Phasing
   
150.025   Rezone of property
   
150.026   Development agreements
   
150.027   Public hearings
   
150.028   Application requirements and review process
Subdivision Process
   
150.030   Concept plan
   
150.031   Preliminary plat and improvement plans
   
150.032   Final plat and improvement plans
Development Activity
   
150.060   Development activity prior to plat recording
   
150.061   Subdivision plat recording
   
150.062   Improvements, completion assurance, and guarantee of performance
   
150.063   Development activity after plat recording
Variances and Appeals
   
150.070   Variances and appeals generally
Vacating or Altering a Subdivision Final Plat;
Vacating a Street, Right-of-Way, or Easement
   
150.080   Vacating, altering, or amending a final plat
   
150.081   Vacating a street, right-of-way, or easement
Parcel and Lot Line Adjustments
   
150.090   Purpose
   
150.091   Parcel boundary adjustments not in a recorded subdivision
   
150.092   Lot line adjustments within a recorded subdivision
Exemptions for Bona Fide Agricultural and Utility Service Purposes
   
150.100   Purpose and intent
   
150.101   Qualifications of land for agricultural purposes
   
150.102   Agricultural partition parcels as buildable lots
   
150.103   Public improvements and infrastructure
   
150.104   Use of property created under this subchapter for non-agricultural
purposes
   
150.105   Utilities
   
150.106   Parent parcels
Development Standards
   
150.110   Improvements and infrastructure - general requirements
   
150.111   Utilities required
   
150.112   Storm water
   
150.113   Inspections
   
150.114   Engineering and design - general requirements
   
150.115   Street layout and access
   
150.116   Trails
   
150.117   Fencing
   
150.118   Street lighting
   
150.119   Easements
   
150.120   Lots and parcels
   
150.121   Utilities to be underground
Special Exceptions
   
150.170   Intent and purpose
   
150.171   Special exception application - Council identified as land use
authority - Commission recommendation required
   
150.172   Allowed special exceptions
   
150.173   Special exception applications - application requirements
   
150.174   Special exception application - final subdivision application -
engineering and attorney review fees
   
150.175   City to determine a complete special exception application
   
150.176   Determination of an incomplete special exception application
   
150.177   Appeal of a determination of application completeness decision by the
city
   
150.178   Special exception application review procedures
   
150.179   Special exception application - approval standards - reasonable
approval requirements authorized
   
150.180   Effect of approval, with or without requirements, or a special
exception application and effective period
   
150.181   Site preparation work prohibited
   
150.182   Appeal of special exception application decisions
Guarantees for Subdivision Improvements, Facilities, and Amenities
   
150.195   Necessary guarantees
   
150.196   Inspection of subdivision improvements
   
150.197   Condition of subdivision improvements - guarantee period
   
150.198   Default
   
150.199   Sample subdivision improvement agreement and escrow certificate
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 TITLE.
   This ordinance codified herein shall be known and may be cited as the
“Elwood City Subdivision Ordinance” and may be identified within this chapter
and other chapters as “Subdivision Ordinance,” or “this chapter.” This
subdivision code shall be considered and may be identified as a city land use
ordinance, as defined by state code.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is established to promote the purposes of UCA Title 10,
Ch. 9a as amended; and promote the health, safety, convenience, and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the city in the matter of subdivisions or matters
affected by subdivisions through provisions designed to:
      (1)   To ensure the efficient and orderly subdivision and development of
land within the city;
      (2)   To prevent the uncontrolled division and development of real
property, which may be done without considering the rights and best interests
of adjoining property owners and the city as a whole;
      (3)   To avoid subdivisions and developments that:
         (a)   Do not comply with the city General Plan or ordinances;
         (b)   Cannot be adequately served by existing utilities or public
services;
         (c)   May prove to be dangerous or unsafe due to design, natural or
manmade hazards existing prior to or created by the subdivision and
development;
         (d)   May cause an undue burden on existing traffic or transportation
services; or
         (e)   May require the future expenditure of public funds to correct
problems caused by the subdivision and development.
   (B)   To provide design standards for public improvements, facilities, and
utilities; to provide for reasonable access to public rights-of-way, parks,
trails, or open spaces; to provide for the dedication of land and streets
deemed necessary for the proper development of the subdivision; and to provide
for easements or rights-of-way that are necessary to service the properties
created by the subdivision.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is designed to inform the developer and the public of the
requirements and conditions necessary to obtain approval of a subdivision.
Because each parcel of real property has unique site/situational
characteristics (whether natural or man-made), there may be some aspects of
subdivision development that cannot easily be articulated. For this reason, it
is not possible to cover every possible contingency. Therefore, the
Administrative Land Use Authority has the authority to impose reasonable
conditions for the subdivision and development in addition to those expressly
required, provided that:
      (1)   The conditions are not arbitrary or capricious; and
      (2)   The conditions do not conflict with any local, state, federal law.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to lots or parcels where public rights of way
are dedicated, and public improvements and infrastructure are installed
regardless of whether the land is subdivided.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide specific meanings for terms
as they are used in this chapter and to facilitate the understanding and
administration of the provisions of this chapter. Meanings shall apply to the
singular or plural and to any tense of a verb. Definitions of pertinent terms
provided in the Utah State Code Annotated are adopted as part of this chapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number shall include
the plural, and the plural the singular; the word SHALL is mandatory and not
directory, and the word MAY is permissive. Words used in this chapter but not
defined herein shall have the meaning as defined in any other chapter adopted
by the city or defined in the Utah State Code Annotated.
      ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY.
         (a)   The appointed board consisting of the City Zoning Administrator
and/or City Planner, Public Works Director, City Engineer, and the Planning
Commission Chair or Planning Commission member who are responsible for
reviewing subdivision applications and land use decisions arising from
subdivision applications.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall be the ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE
AUTHORITY for the approval of the preliminary plat only. The process is
administered and overseen by the City Zoning Administrator, City Planner, or
designee.
         (c)   The City Council shall be the ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY
for the approval of vacating a street, right of way, or easement only.
      AGENT. The person with written authorization to represent a property
owner.
      APPEAL AUTHORITY. The person, board, commission, agency, or other body
designated by this chapter to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use
application.
      APPLICANT. Any person(s) presenting an application for an approval
required by this chapter.
      APPLICATION. A written request for approval and completed in a manner
prescribed by this chapter for review and decision by a Land Use Authority.
Also, referred to as DEVELOPER.
      ARTERIAL STREET. A street existing or proposed, which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic-way and is designated on the city’s
Transportation System Master Street Plan, may be classified as a controlled
access highway, major street, parkway, or other equivalent term to identify
those streets comprising the basic structure of the city’s Transportation
System Master Street Plan.
      CANAL. In irrigation terminology, a constructed waterway specifically
designed to carry water from a waterway (such as a river or reservoir) to
agricultural fields for irrigation purposes. CANALS are engineered to control
the flow of water and distribute it to the areas needing irrigation. IRRIGATION
CANALS are often managed and maintained by irrigation districts, government
agencies, or local water authorities responsible for ensuring proper operation,
maintenance, and water distribution to agricultural users.
      CITY ATTORNEY. An attorney admitted to practice law in the State of Utah
and so appointed by the city to represent the city in legal matters.
      CITY. Elwood Town, Utah.
      CITY ENGINEER. An individual or firm licensed in the State of Utah to
provide engineering services and retained and appointed by the city as the CITY
ENGINEER for the purpose of performing engineering duties.
      CITY PLANNER. The person so appointed by the city.
      CITY RECORDER. The person so appointed by the city.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street, existing or proposed, of considerable
continuity which is a primary means of access to the major street system and is
designated a collector street on the city’s Transportation System Master Street
Plan.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Elwood Town, Utah.
      COMPLETE APPLICATION. An application shall be considered COMPLETE as
defined in each application section.
      COUNCIL. The duly elected City Council of Elwood Town, Utah.
      COUNTY. Box Elder County, Utah.
      CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY. The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject property.
      DEDICATION. The setting aside of land by an owner for any public use for
the enjoyment of the public and owned by a public agency.
      DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association who
causes improvements to be constructed, land use to be changed, or land to be
subdivided for himself, herself, or itself.
      DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. Also known as STANDARDS referred to in this
chapter and adopted by this chapter.
      EASEMENT. The portion of a lot, parcel, or tract reserved for present or
future use by a person or agency other than the fee owner(s) of the property.
The EASEMENT may be for use under, on, or above the lot or land parcel.
      GENERAL PLAN. Also known as the ELWOOD TOWN GENERAL PLAN, such document
setting forth general guidelines for proposed future development of the land
within the city.
      IMPROVEMENTS. All infrastructure improvements, such as water, sewer,
storm drain, land drain, secondary water, curbs, gutters, sidewalk, grading,
streetlights, paving, landscaping, fencing, electric power, natural gas,
communication lines, and all other elements required by this chapter and Title
V of this code.
      IRRIGATION DITCH. Primarily used to transport water for irrigation
purposes on a small scale and a localized level. IRRIGATION DITCHES are simple
conduits that allow for further distribution of water directly to crops and/or
fields.
      IRRIGATION DRAINAGE DITCH. Collects and drains irrigation water back to a
primary water source.
      LAND USE APPLICATION. An application required by a municipality’s land
use ordinance. For the purposes of this chapter, a conceptual plan application,
a preliminary subdivision application, and final subdivision application are
determined to be LAND USE APPLICATIONS.
      LAND USE ORDINANCE. A planning, zoning, development, or subdivision
ordinance of the municipality, but does not include the General Plan. This
chapter is a LAND USE ORDINANCE of the city.
      LEGISLATIVE BODY. The duly elected City Council of Elwood Town, Utah.
      LOCAL STREET. A thoroughfare dedicated to the public and accepted by
proper public authority, or a thoroughfare of standard width which has become a
public thoroughfare by right of use and which affords the principal access to
the abutting property.
      LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. The relocation of the property boundary line in a
subdivision between two adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of
record.
      MAYOR. The duly elected Mayor of Elwood Town, Utah.
      MONUMENT. A permanent survey marker established by the County Surveyor
and/or a survey marker set in accordance with the City Engineer’s
specifications and referenced to county survey monuments.
      NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE. A structure that:
         (a)   Legally existed before its current land use designation; and
         (b)   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes,
does not conform to the setback, height restrictions, or other regulations,
excluding those regulations, which govern the use of land.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A use of land that:
         (a)   Legally existed before its current land use designation;
         (b)   Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use
ordinance governing the land changed; and/or
         (c)   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes,
does not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
      OFFICIAL MAP. A map drawn by municipal authorities and recorded in a
County Recorder’s office that:
         (a)   Shows actual and proposed rights-of-way, center line alignments,
and setbacks for highways and other transportation facilities;
         (b)   Provides a basis for restricting development in designated
rights-of-way or between designated setbacks to allow the government
authorities time to purchase or otherwise reserve the land; and
         (c)   Has been adopted as an element of the municipality’s General
Plan.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others, has a
legal or equitable title to property.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, organization,
association, trust, governmental agency, or any other legal entity.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Elwood Town Planning Commission.
      PLAT. A map or other graphical representation of lands being laid out and
prepared in accordance with UCA §§ 10-9a-603 or 17-23-17.
      PRIMARY IRRIGATION DITCH. A ditch that receives its water source from a
canal and carries greater than five cubic feet per second (cfs) of water.
      PUBLIC HEARING. A hearing at which members of the public are provided
with a reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
      PUBLIC MEETING. A meeting that is required to be open to the public under
UCA Title 52, Chapter 4, Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
      PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS. Those standards outlined in Title V of this code.
      RECORD OF SURVEY MAP. A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance
with UCA § 17-23-17.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any area provided for conveying vehicle and pedestrian
traffic.
      SANITARY SEWER AUTHORITY. The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services
or on-site wastewater systems.
      SECONDARY IRRIGATION DITCH. Fed by a primary irrigation ditch for the
purpose of distributing water across fields at or less than five cubic feet per
second (cfs) of water.
      STREET. A public right-of-way, including a highway, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, road, lane, walk, alley, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, public
easement, or other way.
      SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided, re-subdivided, or proposed to be
divided into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on
the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.
         (a)   SUBDIVISION includes:
            1.   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes
and bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument, regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a
parcel or lot; and
            2.   Except as provided in division (b)3., divisions of land for
residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for
commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.
         (b)   SUBDIVISION does not include:
            1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
            2.   A boundary line agreement recorded with the County Recorder’s
Office between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in
accordance with UCA § 10-9a-524 if no new parcel is created;
            3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
               A.   Revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into
one legal description encompassing all such parcels; or
               B.   Joining a lot to a parcel;
            4.   A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining
subdivided properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with
UCA §§ 10-9a-524 and 10-9a-608, if:
               A.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the
adjustment; and
               B.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use
ordinance;
            5.   A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if
the deed or other instrument states in writing that the division:
               A.   Is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the
parcel or parcels;
               B.   Does not confer any land use approvals; and
               C.   Has not been approved by the land use authority;
            6.   A parcel boundary adjustment;
            7.   A lot line adjustment;
            8.   A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
            9.   A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
            10.   Any other division of land authorized by law.
      SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS. Civil engineering and design plans
associated with required infrastructure and city-owned/operated utilities
required for a subdivision.
      SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE REVIEW. A review to verify that an application for
a subdivision meets the criteria of the applicable city ordinance(s).
      SUBDIVISION PLAN REVIEW. A review of the applicant’s subdivision
improvement plans and other aspects of the subdivision application to verify
that the application complies with all ordinances and applicable standards and
specifications, including the current Public Works standards and development
standards.
      SUBJECT PROPERTY. The land area identified by the parcel identification
number, provided by the County Recorder’s Office or County Assessor’s Office,
for which an approval is required based on this chapter.
      UNINCORPORATED. The area outside of the incorporated area of the city.
      UTAH CODE ANNOTATED. The Utah State Code Annotated, 1953, as amended.
Also known as the STATE CODE or the CODE.
      WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY. A ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or storm water drainage
and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse. See UCA § 73-1-15.5(l)(b).
      ZONING MAP. A map, adopted as part of a land use ordinance, that depicts
the current land use zones, overlays, or districts of the city.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.005 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
held to be invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.020 PROCESS CLARIFICATION.
   (A)   Administrative Land Use Authority review. The Administrative Land Use
Authority shall complete a review of each completed application and provide
written comments to the applicant requesting additional information and/or
modifications to plans. Each request shall be specific and include citations to
ordinances, standards, or specifications.
   (B)   Applicant response to review. The applicant shall submit revised plans
along with a written explanation in response to the Administrative Land Use
Authority’s review comments identifying and explaining their revisions and
reasons for declining to make revisions (if any). Each explanation shall be
specific and include citations to ordinances, standards, or specifications. If
the applicant fails to address a review comment in the response, the review
cycle is not complete and a subsequent review cycle may not begin until all
comments are addressed.
   (C)   Geological hazard. The restrictions and requirements of the review
cycle do not apply to the review of subdivision applications affecting property
within identified geological hazard areas.
   (D)   Review cycle. There shall be no more than four total review cycles. A
review cycle shall be considered complete when:
      (1)   Complete application is submitted to the Administrative Land Use
Authority;
      (2)   The Administrative Land Use Authority review is complete;
      (3)   The applicant response to review is complete; and
      (4)   The Administrative Land Use Authority provides a written statement
to the applicant stating completion of the review cycle and next required steps
for approval.
   (E)   Review cycle, exceptions.
      (1)   Additional review cycle(s). May be required when a modification or
correction is necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state
or federal law when a change or correction is necessitated by the applicant’s
adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phase plan that adjusts
infrastructure needed for the specific development.
      (2)   Additional time for review. If the applicant does not submit a
revised plan within 20 business days after the Administrative Land Use
Authority requires a modification or correction, the Administrative Land Use
Authority shall have an additional 20 business days to respond.
      (3)   Other land use applications. The review cycle as defined in this
chapter applies only to single family, townhome, and twin-home land use
applications. Review times and cycles may vary for multifamily, commercial,
industrial, institutional, and other non-residential land use applications.
   (F)   Subdivision ordinance review. The Administrative Land Use Authority
shall notify the applicant in writing of any deficiency in an application for a
subdivision and the right to appeal the determination to a designated Appeal
Authority as stated in §§
30.20 and through
30.31.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.021 FINAL PLATTING AND RECORDING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Terms.
      (1)   Any division of real property within the city is subject to the
terms of this chapter.
      (2)   The division of real property includes the sale, gift, transfer,
conveyances, split, or other division that results in changing the boundaries
or legal descriptions of a given parcel of real property and results in the
creation of a new parcel of real property.
   (B)   Unlawful subdivision.
      (1)   No land which is located wholly or in part in the city may be
subdivided, the plat be filed and recorded in the County Recorder’s Office, nor
lots be sold unless the subdivision has been created pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Exception. Joining a lot or lots to an existing parcel does not
constitute a subdivision nor does it require a subdivision plat amendment.
   (C)   Final plat approval. Lots shall not be transferred or sold, nor shall
a building permit be issued for a structure thereon, until the final plat of a
subdivision is approved, and the final plat is recorded in accordance with this
chapter and the provisions of state law, and until the improvements and
infrastructure required in connection with the subdivision have been
constructed or guaranteed as provided herein.
   (D)   Sales of land parcels. No person shall sell or exchange or offer to
sell or exchange any parcel of land which is in any part of a subdivision or a
larger tract of land or offer for a recordation in the County Recorder’s
Office, any deed conveying such a parcel of land or any interest therein,
unless the subdivision has been created pursuant to, and in accordance with,
the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Building permits. Building permits shall not be issued prior to
approval and recordation of the final plat.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022 WORK TO BE DONE BY REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL.
   All plans must be prepared and stamped by licensed and/or certified
professionals in the State of Utah including, but not limited to, architects,
landscape architects, land planners, engineers, surveyors, geotechnical
engineers, transportation engineers or other professionals as deemed necessary
by the city.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Approval process. The approval process for a subdivision shall be in
sequential order consisting of no more than three review cycles:
      (1)   Concept plan (optional).
      (2)   Preliminary plat and improvement plan review.
      (3)   Final plat and improvement plan review.
   (B)   Expiration.
      (1)   Each subdivision application review cycle shall be valid for a
period of not more than one year. Development agreements shall be exempt from
this requirement and shall be bound by the expiration terms outlined in the
development agreement.
      (2)   At the request of the developer, the Administrative Land Use
Authority may grant up to two six-month extensions if substantial progress has
been demonstrated by the applicant.
      (3)   Expired applications shall be deemed null and void and require the
developer to start the subdivision approval process over.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.024 PHASING.
   (A)   Subdivisions may be done in phases.
   (B)   If a developer chooses to phase a subdivision, each phase shall follow
the approval procedure as outlined in this chapter, and shall have the
following considerations:
      (1)   The preliminary plat shall include all ground anticipated to be
subdivided. The phases shall be shown as part of the preliminary plat and
submitted with the preliminary plat.
      (2)   Development shall be organized such that the phases will be
contiguous, and the required improvements and infrastructure will be continuous
as deemed feasible and desirable by the Administrative Land Use Authority.
      (3)   Less desirable or expensive aspects of the subdivision should not
be delayed to the final phases of development.
      (4)   The Administrative Land Use Authority may require a pro-rated
portion of the improvements and infrastructure be developed, or guaranteed in
escrow, in earlier phases.
      (5)   Where it is prudent to install improvements and infrastructure that
extend into the next phase, such work may be done when it is shown on the plans
and approved accordingly.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.025 REZONE OF PROPERTY.
   If rezoning the property is required, the applicant must first obtain rezone
approval as required in the city code, prior to subdividing.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.026 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   Any development agreement proposed by the applicant or the city shall be
approved prior to subdividing.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.027 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold public hearings for the general
plan, zoning map changes, and any other land use ordinances, applications, and
amendments for which a public hearing is required by statute. See UCA §§ 10-9a-
103,10-9a-404, 10-9a-502, 10-9a-503,10-9a-602, and 10-9a-608.
   (B)   A public hearing shall not be held for administrative decisions.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.028 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the specific requirements outlined in this chapter for
each application, all proposed subdivisions shall show compliance with all
applicable laws and standards.
   (B)   Poorly drawn, incomplete, or illegible drawings shall be cause for
denial.
   (C)   The Administrative Land Use Authority may waive certain informational
and design requirements when they clearly do not apply and are irrelevant to a
proposed subdivision and shall state in writing such waiver as part of the
review cycle.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
SUBDIVISION PROCESS
§ 150.030 CONCEPT PLAN.
   Prior to submitting a formal application, a prospective applicant may
request a meeting with city staff to obtain initial feedback and information.
This meeting shall be optional, non-binding, and considered separate from and
independent of the required subdivision approval review cycles.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.031 PRELIMINARY PLAT AND IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Purpose. For the Administrative Land Use Authority to complete an
initial subdivision ordinance and plan review.
   (B)   Application required.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit the required preliminary subdivision
plat application for review and approval by the Administrative Land Use
Authority.
      (2)   Exception. When a proposed subdivision does not involve the
development of new public infrastructure, an exception may be granted in
writing by the City Engineer to waive the need for the review of the
preliminary improvement plans.
   (C)   Complete application. An application shall not be considered complete,
and the first review cycle shall not begin unless and until the applicant has
submitted the following items:
      (1)   A completed preliminary subdivision plat application as provided by
the city.
      (2)   Additional studies and information as listed on the application
form and as necessary to show feasible compliance with applicable codes and
regulations.
      (3)   A signed owner-agent affidavit, if the owner is being represented
by another party.
      (4)   Current Box Elder County ownership plat depicting property proposed
for subdivision and all contiguous property around the land proposed to be
subdivided.
      (5)   A recent title report of the proposed subdivided property
identifying ownership, easements of record, liens or other encumbrances, and
verification of payment of taxes and assessments.
      (6)   Will serve letters from all applicable service providers.
      (7)   Both a digital and hard copy of the preliminary plat as outlined in
the development standards, and that contains at a minimum the following:
         (a)   All information as required in the current development
standards.
         (b)   Name of the subdivision and the words “Preliminary Plat - Not to
be Recorded.”
         (c)   Layout of lots including lot sizes and dimensions.
         (d)   Layout of roads (current and proposed).
         (e)   Existing structures and nature features such as drainages,
waterways, waterbodies, special views, existing vegetation to preserve, and
other unique features.
         (f)   Data tables showing the number of lots/units, buildable area for
each lot, percentage of landscaping/open space, and density of units per acre.
         (g)   Both a digital and hard copy of the preliminary improvement
plans and infrastructure detail drawings drawn to a scale not less than one
inch equals 50 feet that contain, at a minimum, the following:
            1.   The location of the subdivision, as forming a part of a larger
tract or parcel where the plan submitted covers only a part of the original
parcel(s). The entire parent parcel shall be shown including all phases and
property reserved for future development.
            2.   The location, width, and other dimensions of all existing or
final platted streets and other important features, such as watercourses,
exceptional topography, and structures within the tract.
            3.   Existing sanitary sewers, storm drains, water supply mains,
bridges, and other utilities within the tract, or within 200 feet thereof.
            4.   The location, width and other dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys, shared driveways, easements, parks and other open spaces, with proper
labeling of spaces to be dedicated to the public, or to be reserved for common
use and benefit of subdivision residents.
            5.   Engineered drawings, including typical cross-sections and
plans and/or written statements regarding the width and type of proposed
streets; location, size and type of proposed water mains, sanitary sewers, or
other sewage disposal facilities; storm drainage facilities; detention basins;
and other proposed improvements and infrastructure.
            6.   A grading and drainage plan indicated by solid-line contours
superimposed on dashed-line contours of existing topography.
            7.   The general location of existing trees over six inches in
diameter measured at four and one-half feet above the ground, and in the case
of heavily wooded areas, an indication of the outline of the wooded area and
location of trees which are to remain.
            8.   Proposed future street layout and drainage plan for any
portion of the property to be developed in a later phase.
            9.   Areas within the 100-year floodplain, water courses including
culverts, water areas, streams, areas subject to occasional flooding, wetlands,
marshy areas or swamps, or any other flood-prone area as listed by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
            10.   Storm water calculations and retention/removal plan certified
by a licensed engineer and design drawings of the infrastructure necessary to
accomplish the plan.
            11.   Compliance with the development standards.
            12.   Plan and profile drawings for all roadways.
            13.   Utility plans.
            14.   Grading and drainage plan.
            15.   Storm drain calculations.
         16.   Low impact design (LID) analysis and water quality report.
      (h)   Payment of fees as stated in the city’s current adopted Fee
Schedule.
   (D)   Time frame.
      (1)   Location is not within 100 feet of water conveyance facility.
Within 15 business days after the receipt of the completed application, the
applicant shall receive written comments from the Administrative Land Use
Authority.
         (a)   After the applicant’s complete response is received, the
applicant will be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Planning Commission for approval. The Planning Commission shall review
the subdivision relative to the general plan and the provisions of this
chapter.
         (b)   Approval from the Planning Commission shall complete the review
cycle.
      (2)   Location is within 100 feet of water conveyance facility. Within 20
calendar days after the receipt of the completed application, the city shall
notify in writing the water conveyance facility owner(s) of the application and
request comments related to the following aspects of the water conveyance
facility: access, maintenance, protection, safety, and any other issues
related.
         (a)   Within 15 business days after the 20-calendar days comment
period, whether comments are received from the water conveyance facility owner
(s) or not, the applicant shall receive written comments from the
Administrative Land Use Authority. Total time frame shall not exceed 40
calendar days.
         (b)   After the applicant’s complete response is received the
applicant will be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Planning Commission for approval.
         (c)   Approval from the Planning Commission shall complete the review
cycle.
      (3)   Water conveyance facility. Shall mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or
storm water drainage and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse. See UCA § 73-1-15.5(l)(b).
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.032 FINAL PLAT AND IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Purpose. For the Administrative Land Use Authority to complete final
subdivision plat and improvement plans review.
   (B)   Application required. The applicant shall submit the required final
subdivision plat and improvement plans application for review and approval by
the Administrative Land Use Authority.
   (C)   Complete application. An application shall not be considered complete,
and the review cycle shall not begin unless and until the following items are
submitted:
      (1)   Preliminary approval by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Completion of all requirements from previous review cycle.
      (3)   A completed final plat and improvement plans application as
provided by the city.
      (4)   Additional studies and information as listed on the application
form and as necessary to show feasible compliance with applicable codes and
regulations.
      (5)   A signed owner-agent affidavit, if the owner is being represented
by another party.
      (6)   Proof of tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest, and
penalties owing on the land have been paid.
      (7)   Written approval from other agencies as applicable (e.g., Army
Corps of Engineers, Utah Department of Transportation, Box Elder Surveyor).
      (8)   Both a digital and hard copy of the final plat and improvement
plans as revised and updated from the previous review cycle.
      (9)   Both a digital and hard copy of the plan and profile drawings for
all existing and proposed infrastructure.
      (10)   Final covenants, conditions, and restrictions (if applicable)
which shall be recorded with the final plat.
      (11)   Final agreements (if applicable) executed by all parties.
      (12)   Applicant’s engineer’s cost estimate for all improvements and
infrastructure that includes quantities, units, and costs for all improvements
and infrastructure required.
      (13)   Payment of fees as stated in the city’s current adopted fee
schedule.
      (14)   Signors of plat - signature blocks on final mylar.
         (a)   Mayor (as a non-discretionary and ministerial act for the
acceptance of land and public improvements that may be proposed for dedication
to the city);
         (b)   City Recorder (attesting the Mayor’s signature);
         (c)   City Planning Commission Chair;
         (d)   City Engineer;
         (e)   City Attorney;
         (f)   Each landowner on record as described on the plat - owner’s
dedication as shown on the plat and notarized; and
         (g)   A surveyor who prepares the plat shall certify that the surveyor
holds a license in accordance with UCA Title 58, Chapter 22 and has completed a
survey of the property, verifying all measurements, or has referenced a record
of survey map of the existing property boundaries shown on the plat, and
verified the locations of the boundaries and has placed monuments as
represented on the plat.
   (D)   Review cycle and approval. The Administrative Land Use Authority may
complete up to three final review cycles, as deemed necessary. After the
applicant has responded to either the fourth or final review cycle, and the
applicant has complied with each modification requested in the Administrative
Land Use Authority’s previous review cycle, no additional reviews are required
if the applicant has not materially changed the plan - other than those changes
in response to the requested modifications or corrections.
   (E)   Time frame.
      (1)   Within 20 business days after the receipt of the completed
application, the applicant shall receive written comments from the
Administrative Land Use Authority.
      (2)   Appeal of improvement plans approval. If, on the fourth or final
review, the Administrative Land Use Authority fails to respond within the time
frame, the applicant may make a formal request for a decision to approve or
deny the final revised set of plans.
         (a)   Within ten days of this request, the city shall assemble an
appeal panel consisting of one licensed engineer designated by the city, one
licensed engineer designated by the applicant, and one licensed engineer agreed
upon and designated by the engineers selected by the city and the applicant. No
member of the panel may have any interest in the application that is the
subject of the appeal.
         (b)   The applicant shall pay 50% of the cost of the appeal review and
the city’s fee as stated in the current adopted Fee Schedule.
         (c)   The decision by the appeal panel shall be final, subject to a
petition being filed within 30 days of the decision in the District Court.
   (F)   Final plat approval - notice required. Within 30 days after approving
a final plat, the municipality shall submit an electronic copy of the final
approved plat to the Utah Geospatial Resource Center for inclusion in the
unified statewide 911 emergency services database.
(Ord. 2024-011, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY
§ 150.060 DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY PRIOR TO PLAT RECORDING.
   (A)   Pre-construction meeting.
      (1)   Upon completion of the final plat and improvement plans review
cycle and prior to commencing any construction activity, the applicant shall
schedule and attend a pre-construction meeting.
      (2)   If the general contractor changes at any time during construction,
an additional pre-construction meeting shall be held before additional work
commences.
   (B)   Inspections. All construction shall be subject to inspections as
required in the city’s code and this chapter.
   (C)   Improvement completion assurance. At any time after receiving final
approval, the applicant may post an improvement completion assurance as
outlined in this chapter for:
      (1)   Completion of 100% of the required public improvements or
infrastructure; or
      (2)   If the city has inspected and accepted a portion of the public
improvements, 100% of the incomplete or unacceptable public improvements or
infrastructure.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.061 SUBDIVISION PLAT RECORDING.
   After the plat has been acknowledged, certified, and approved, the City
Recorder shall record the plat in the Office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.062 IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETION ASSURANCE AND GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   Purpose. To assure the completion of required improvements and
infrastructure as required by the approved plans, development standards, and
all applicable ordinances.
   (B)   Guarantee of performance.
      (1)   A developer shall guarantee the installation of all required
subdivision improvements, facilities, services, and amenities, as applicable,
by one of the two following methods:
         (a)   The developer shall deposit in escrow with a federally insured
escrow holder, an amount equal to the cost of the subdivision improvements,
plus an additional ten 10%, as approved by the City Engineer, to assure the
installation of such subdivision improvements within a two-year period from the
approval of the final subdivision application. The escrow agreement and escrow
holder shall be approved by the City Attorney; or
         (b)   The applicant shall furnish and file with the City Recorder a
letter of credit from a federally insured financial institution, in an amount
equal to the cost of the subdivision improvementsplus an additional 10%, as
approved by the City Engineer, to assure the installation of such subdivision
improvements within a two-year period from the approval of the final
subdivision application. The letter of credit and financial institution shall
be approved by the City Attorney. The financial institution, in the letter of
credit, shall provide the assurance that the applicant shall not be allowed to
encumber those funds for any other development or any other obligation other
than for the outlined subdivision; and that the city shall be allowed to access
those funds, if necessary, to finish the subdivision improvements if the
applicant fails to do so.
      (2)   A subdivision improvement agreement is required on all subdivisions
requiring infrastructure improvements or improvements being dedicated to the
city.
         (a)   The subdivision improvement agreement shall be approved as to
form by the City Attorney.
         (b)   The developer shall use the city’s approved form for the
subdivision improvement agreement and escrow agreement.
      (3)   (a)   The subdivision improvement agreement and financial guarantee
shall be established prior to recording the subdivision plat.
         (b)   If the developer installs the infrastructure and improvements
and such infrastructure and improvements are inspected and approved by the city
prior to recording the plat, then only the warranty portion of the completion
assurance shall be required.
      (4)   The provisions of this section do not supersede the terms of a
valid development agreement, an adopted phasing plan, or the State Construction
Code.
   (C)   Cost estimate.
      (1)   The developer shall submit an updated engineer’s cost estimate for
all improvements and infrastructure required within the subdivision.
      (2)   The cost estimate shall include quantities, units, and costs for
all improvements and infrastructure required, and shall indicate which items
have already been installed.
      (3)   The City Engineer shall review and approve the cost estimate and
may adjust the costs to meet current industry standards.
      (4)   Those items that are deemed “direct costs” shall be removed from
the escrow and shall be accounted for separately.
   (D)   Direct costs. The developer shall pay the following direct costs at
the time they establish the required improvements completion assurance. The
funds collected for each item will be used for the construction and
installation of the items by the city; thus, removing the developer’s
responsibility for the installation of these items as part their development:
      (1)   One-half percent of the total construction cost shall be to cover
administrative costs.
      (2)   Funds for the current seal coat treatment. The amount shall be
established by the City Engineer in accordance with recent bid prices received
for similar treatment(s).
      (3)   Funds for current streetlights and all associated infrastructure
costs.
      (4)   Funds for current street signs.
      (5)   Funds associated with any cost agreement(s) with the city that were
established as a condition of approval.
   (E)   Guarantee amount. The guarantee amount shall be equal to 110% of the
cost estimated and approved by the City Engineer.
      (1)   One hundred percent shall be for the cost of those improvements and
infrastructure not yet installed; and
      (2)   Ten percent shall be for a required one-year warranty period. The
warranty amount calculated shall be based upon the total cost of all required
improvements and infrastructure.
   (F)   Liability. The developer shall indemnify and hold harmless the city
and its officers, directors, members, partners, agents, employees, and
consultants from all claims, damages, losses, and expenses, including
attorney’s fees, arising out of, or resulting from the installation of the
required improvements and infrastructure. The indemnity required hereby shall
be included in the subdivision improvement agreement.
   (G)   Default.
      (1)   In the event the developer is in default with any provision of this
section, or fails or neglects to satisfactorily install the required
improvements and infrastructure within two years from the date of approval of
the final plat, or to pay all liens in connection therewith, or to correct
deficiencies or damages to the improvements and infrastructure required for
final acceptance, the city may declare the escrow forfeited and the city may
install, repair, or cause the required improvements and infrastructure to be
installed or repaired, using the proceeds from the collection of escrow to
defray the expense thereof.
      (2)   The city may apply all sums deposited in escrow against the cost of
completing all required improvements and infrastructure and to pay all
expenses, including, but not limited to, all unreimbursed engineering expenses
related to the development, a 10% administration fee for the securing of
contracts, and court costs and attorney fees. The default provisions required
hereby shall be included in the applicable subdivision improvement agreement
and escrow agreement.
   (H)   Release of funds.
      (1)   The developer shall be responsible for the quality of all materials
and workmanship.
      (2)   If improvements and infrastructure are properly installed and
verified by the City Engineer via city inspections and testing, liens are paid,
and other conditions are found to be satisfactory, then the Mayor shall
authorize the money held in escrow for the specific improvement completed
(except for the 10% held during the hereinafter described warranty period) to
be released.
      (3)   If the conditions of material or workmanship show unusual
depreciation, or do not comply with the acceptable standards of durability, or
if required inspections or testing have not been done, or if any outstanding
liens are not paid, then the city may withhold releasing the money and the city
may declare the developer in default.
      (4)   The city shall have exclusive control over the release of the
escrow funds, and they may be released only upon written approval by the city.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.063 DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY AFTER PLAT RECORDING.
   (A)   Improvements and infrastructure required for building permit. No
building permit shall be issued by the city unless all required improvements
are installed, inspected, and approved, with the exception of sidewalk, asphalt
pavement, streetlights, and street signs.
   (B)   Improvements and infrastructure required for occupancy. No occupancy
permit shall be issued by the city unless all required improvements are
installed, including the sidewalk along the frontage of the building lot in
question, with the exception for streetlights and street signs.
   (C)   Conditional acceptance of improvements and infrastructure. The City
Engineer shall issue conditional acceptance upon the following:
      (1)   Completion of all required improvements and infrastructure;
      (2)   The site has been left in an orderly and clean condition following
construction. Construction waste, debris, excess fill material, or any other
similar material shall not be left or abandoned on the site or on other nearby
properties;
      (3)   The final plat has been recorded;
      (4)   The developer makes a written request for inspection of
improvements and infrastructure for the purpose of conditional acceptance;
      (5)   Improvements and infrastructure are inspected by the city and found
to be acceptable and in compliance, and completion of all items identified on
the punch list; and
      (6)   Reproducible as-built drawings have been submitted to and accepted
by the City Engineer.
      (7)   If any of the above items are found to be missing or deficient, the
city will generate a written punch list of items needing repair, replacement,
or yet to be completed and conditional acceptance shall not be issued.
   (D)   Warranty period. Upon receipt of conditional acceptance, all required
improvements and infrastructure shall be warranted by the developer for a
period of one calendar year.
   (E)   Final acceptance.
      (1)   Following the completion of the warranty period, the City Engineer
shall issue final acceptance of the subdivision improvements and infrastructure
when:
         (a)   The developer makes a written request for inspection of
improvements and infrastructure for the purpose of final acceptance; and
         (b)   Improvements and infrastructure are inspected by the city and
found to be acceptable and in compliance, and all items identified on the punch
list have been completed.
      (2)   The city will not issue final acceptance if improvements and
infrastructure are found to not be acceptable and in compliance; and the city
will generate a written punch list of items needing repair or replacement.
   (F)   Release of remaining escrow. Upon acceptance by the City Engineer, the
Mayor shall authorize the release of all remaining escrow monies.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
VARIANCES AND APPEALS
§ 150.070 VARIANCES AND APPEALS GENERALLY.
   Any person may petition for a variance or appeal a decision pertaining to
this chapter to the Appeal Authority as established in §§
30.20 through
30.31.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
VACATING OR ALTERING A SUBDIVISION FINAL PLAT; VACATING A STREET, RIGHT-OF-WAY,
OR EASEMENT
§ 150.080 VACATING, ALTERING, OR AMENDING A FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Vacating, altering, or amending a final plat shall be done in
accordance with UCA § 10-9a-608, or its successor statute. This includes
changing a subdivision boundary, dedicated right-of-way, the number or layout
of lots, easements, the subdivision name, and any other aspect of a recorded
final plat.
   (B)   If an amendment proposes significant changes to the existing
subdivision, then the Administrative Land Use Authority may require the changes
to be made through the vacation of the existing final plat and/or approval of
the changes being done through the process required for new subdivisions. This
should be done to ensure that significant changes receive proper review and
adequate fees are obtained to cover costs to the city.
   (C)   The Administrative Land Use Authority for vacating, altering, or
amending a final plat shall be the same as that for the final plat application.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.081 VACATING A STREET, RIGHT-OF-WAY, OR EASEMENT.
   (A)   Vacations shall be done in accordance with UCA § 10-9a-609.5 or its
successor statute.
   (B)   The Administrative Land Use Authority shall be the City Council.
   (C)   Adjusting or modifying an existing street, right of way, or easement
while not eliminating the street, right-of-way, or easement, and while still
maintaining access, does not constitute a vacation.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
PARCEL AND LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
§ 150.090 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to outline the requirements and
procedures for parcel line adjustments and lot line adjustments in accordance
with Utah State Code and local land use regulations.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to allow owners of real property to
adjust common property lines while minimizing delay and expense without the
need of a subdivision plat.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.091 PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS NOT IN A RECORDED SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Approval required.
      (1)   Prior to the recording of a parcel line adjustment between
adjoining properties not located within a platted subdivision, the adjustment
must first be approved by the Administrative Land Use Authority if the any of
the properties involved includes a dwelling unit.
      (2)   Exemption. Approval is not required prior to recording of a parcel
line adjustment if the properties involved do not contain a dwelling unit.
   (B)   Review. Application and the review of a proposed parcel line
adjustment shall follow the procedures listed below:
      (1)   Application. An applicant, either an owner of one of the properties
or a representative of the owners, shall submit a complete application which
shall include:
         (a)   Property owner(s) affidavit acknowledging the consent of each
party for the proposed adjustment;
         (b)   Property survey(s) with all existing improvements to the
properties;
         (c)   A legal description of the proposed parcel line and of each
parcel after the boundary line is changed;
         (d)   A site plan or exhibit serving as a visual depiction of the
parcel line adjustment; and
         (e)   Any necessary improvement plans, agreements, or additional
materials needed for review as determined by the Administrative Land Use
Authority.
      (2)   Review procedure.
         (a)   Upon receipt and payment of a complete application, the
Administrative Land Use Authority shall commence the review of the parcel line
adjustment request.
         (b)   The review shall be completed, with a written response returned
to the applicant, within 14 business days from the date of complete
application.
         (c)   The reviewing parties shall review the adjustment for compliance
with city zoning and development standards.
   (C)   Final approval. If the proposed parcel line adjustment complies with
all city ordinances and development standards, written approval shall be
provided to the applicant by the City Planner or designee.
   (D)   Recording.
      (1)   Upon final approval from the Administrative Land Use Authority, the
applicant shall record the approved documents at the office of the Box Elder
Recorder to complete the parcel line adjustment.
      (2)   The parcel line adjustment may be completed by a quitclaim deed or
boundary line agreement and shall be accompanied by the following:
         (a)   The written notice of approval of the parcel line adjustment by
the city that recites the legal descriptions of both the original parcels and
the parcels resulting from the exchange of title;
         (b)   The approved site plan or exhibit depicting the new parcel
boundaries and adjacent properties if deemed necessary; and
         (c)   Any other documents deemed necessary as part of the parcel line
adjustment approval.
   (E)   Exception. If the parcel line adjustment is creating a new parcel(s)
for the purpose of constructing a dwelling unit, a subdivision plat must be
approved and the provisions of this title must be followed.
   (F)   (1)   All parcel line adjustments shall comply with applicable state
code regulations found under UCA § 10-9a-523 (property boundary adjustment) and
§
      (2)   A parcel line adjustment shall follow the procedures provided
herein unless exempted from local land use authority review as provided in the
aforementioned state code sections.
(Ord. 2024-011, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.092 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS WITHIN A RECORDED SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Approval required. Prior to the recording of a lot line adjustment
between adjoining properties within a platted subdivision, the adjustment must
first be approved by the Administrative Land Use Authority.
   (B)   Review. Application and the review of a proposed lot line adjustment
shall follow the procedures listed below:
      (1)   Application. An applicant, either an owner of one of the properties
or a representative of the owners, shall submit a complete application which
shall include:
         (a)   Property owner(s) affidavit acknowledging the consent of each
party for the proposed adjustment between the lots.
         (b)   Property survey(s) with all existing improvements to the lots
and reference to the subdivision within which the properties are located
including easements located on the lots;
         (c)   A legal description of each of the proposed lots after the lot
line is changed including any changes to platted easements associated with the
lots;
         (d)   A site plan or exhibit serving as a visual depiction of the lot
line adjustment. Although not a plat, the site plan or exhibit shall
sufficiently represent the new lots and include adjacent lots within the
subdivision; and
         (e)   Any necessary improvement plans, agreements, or additional
materials needed for review as determined by the City Planner, City Engineer,
or designees.
      (2)   Review procedure.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a complete application and the payment of the
applicable fee, the Administrative Land Use Authority shall commence the review
of the lot line adjustment request.
         (b)   The review shall be completed, with a written response returned
to the applicant, within 14 business days from the date of the complete
application submittal. The reviewing parties shall review the adjustment for
compliance with city zoning and development standards.
   (C)   Final approval. If the proposed lot line adjustment complies with all
city ordinances and development standards, written approval shall be provided
to the applicant by the City Planner or designee.
   (D)   Recording. Upon final approval from the Administrative Land Use
Authority, the applicant shall record the approved documents at the office of
the Box Elder County Recorder to complete the lot line adjustment. The lot line
adjustment may be completed by quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement and
shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   The written notice of approval of the lot line adjustment by the
city that recites the legal descriptions of both the original lots and the lots
resulting from the exchange of title;
      (2)   The approved site plan or exhibit depicting the new lot boundaries
along with adjacent lots within the subdivision; and
      (3)   Any other documents deemed necessary as part of the lot line
adjustment approval.
   (E)   Exception. If the lot line adjustment is creating a new lot(s) or
parcel(s) for the purpose of constructing a dwelling unit, a subdivision plat
must be approved, and the provisions of this chapter must be followed.
   (F)   All lot line adjustments shall comply with applicable state code
regulations found under UCA § 10-9a-608(5). A lot line adjustment shall follow
the procedures provided herein unless an amended plat is required per state
statute.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
EXEMPTIONS FOR BONA FIDE AGRICULTURAL
AND UTILITY SERVICE PURPOSES
§ 150.100 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   UCA § 10-9a-605(2) exempts agricultural lands from plat requirements under
the certain conditions therein.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.101 QUALIFICATIONS OF LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES.
   Agricultural land may be divided or partitioned under this chapter only
under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The property must have been solely for agricultural use and actively
devoted to agricultural use as defined by UCA § 59-2-502;
   (B)   The property is not used and will not be used for any nonagricultural
purpose in the future; and
   (C)   All of the lots or parcels must meet the minimum lot size requirements
of the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.102 AGRICULTURAL PARTITION PARCELS AS BUILDABLE LOTS.
   An agricultural partition lot is buildable for only bona-fide agricultural
purposes. A parcel created in accordance with this chapter is not considered a
buildable lot for residential, commercial, industrial, or any other non-
agricultural purposes.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.103 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND INFRASTRUCTURE.
   The city shall not require any public improvements and infrastructure to be
installed as a condition of approval for agricultural partitions.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.104 USE OF PROPERTY CREATED UNDER THIS SUBCHAPTER FOR NON-AGRICULTURAL
PURPOSE.
   If a lot or parcel created by this subchapter is used for a non-agricultural
purpose, the city shall require the lot or parcel to comply with the
requirements of the subdivision and land use provisions of the city.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.105 UTILITIES.
   A subdivision of land for utility purposes (unmanned facilities such as:
substations, regulator stations, towers, and the like) creating a parcel(s)
under 8,000 square feet in size may be exempted by the Administrative Land Use
Authority for certain provisions of this chapter and/or provisions of the city
code relating to lot size, frontage, setbacks, and improvements and
infrastructure.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.106 PARENT PARCELS.
   The parent parcel from which the agricultural or utility lot(s) is created
shall be labeled as a remainder parcel and shall not be part of an approved
subdivision until such time as it complies with the provisions of this chapter
and other relevant sections of the city code and has received the applicable
land use approval(s).
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 150.110 IMPROVEMENTS AND INFRASTRUCTURE - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All improvements and infrastructure related to a subdivision shall be
installed according to the requirements of the city code and the development
standards.
   (B)   The developer shall be responsible for extending all utilities and
improvements and infrastructure to the subdivision if they are not already
adjacent to or on the site including curb, gutter, and sidewalk.
   (C)   When the city is to take ownership of public infrastructure and
improvements, the city shall require the developer to install such improvements
in a manner that does not cause excessive liability or maintenance costs for
the city at the convenience or advantage of the developer.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.111 UTILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following utilities are required to be provided by the developer
to each lot:
      (1)   Culinary water. The water source shall be provided by the city
unless an alternative permanent source is approved by the City Engineer and the
Box Elder Health Department.
      (2)   Sewer. The sewer service shall be provided by the city through
gravity collection lines. Public sewer lift stations are generally not
permitted.
         (a)   Public sewer lift stations may be granted by exception by the
Administrative Land Use Authority and the City Engineer when a lift station is
deemed clearly preferable to the interest of the city and gravity sewer is not
feasible.
         (b)   As determined by the Administrative Land Use Authority and the
City Engineer, some property may not be developed if gravity sewer cannot be
reasonably provided.
         (c)   If sewer is not available, then the applicant shall get approval
from Bear River Health Department for the use of septic tanks in the
subdivision.
      (3)   Secondary water. Secondary water service shall be provided by the
city or a private company once the secondary water system has been developed.
      (4)   Land drain. The land drain system must be installed in areas with
shallow groundwater. If basements are eliminated and the geotechnical report
can provide sufficient documentation that groundwater levels (including
historical) are deep enough to eliminate the need for the land drain system,
the Administrative Land Use Authority and the City Engineer may allow this
requirement to be waived.
      (5)   Electrical power. The electrical power will be provided by Rocky
Mountain Power (RMP), or their successors and all installations must follow RMP
standards.
      (6)   Natural gas. The natural gas service will be provided by Dominion
Energy, or their successors, and all installations must follow Dominion Energy
standards.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.112 STORM WATER.
   (A)   Storm water plans shall meet the requirements of the development
standards and the city code.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall determine the appropriate implementation
strategy for meeting the city’s storm water-related standards, using the
current capital facilities plan as a guide. This may include decisions
regarding ownership and access to storm water ponds, and where and how the
water shall flow as part of the city’s overall storm water system.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.113 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All improvements and infrastructure shall receive inspections by the
City Engineer and/or City Public Works Department as required in the
development standards in Title V of this code, and as necessary to verify
conformance with the city code.
   (B)   Failure to obtain the necessary inspections shall result in a fine as
outlined in this chapter.
   (C)   Failure to obtain the necessary inspections may also necessitate
removal and re-installation of the improvements and infrastructure at the
developer’s sole cost, as such removal and re-installation are determined by
the City Engineer and/or Public Works Department.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.114 ENGINEERING AND DESIGN - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Access. All lots shall be accessed by a fully improved city street and
shall meet the frontage requirements, as stated in
Chapter 155.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer to provide proper
road access to the subdivision as required in the city code, the development
standards, and (where applicable) the Utah Department of Transportation.
      (2)   The mere existence of a public road or right-of-way to the proposed
subdivision does not mean that adequate access exists.
      (3)   It shall be the developer’s responsibility to construct and
dedicate all public roads required by the city to provide access to the
subdivision.
   (B)   Design standards. All subdivisions shall comply with the current
adopted design standards set forth in the city code and in the development
standards.
   (C)   Public infrastructure and improvements. The City Engineer shall have
authority to require adjustments to the utility plan associated with a proposed
subdivision including adjustments to the type, manner, and location of
utilities. Such adjustments to the utility plan may be required to provide
connectivity among developments, provide for public safety, and minimize public
infrastructure maintenance and liability.
   (D)   Additional reports and studies.
      (1)   Geotechnical reports as required by the development standards and
the City Engineer.
      (2)   A traffic study may be required by the City Engineer depending on
his or her judgment regarding the size of the subdivision, complex traffic
movements involved with the proposal, interaction of streets with state roads,
new traffic patterns, traffic volume in or near the subdivision, history of
crashes or expected crashes in the area, general safety, or anticipated traffic
delays due to the subdivision.
      (3)   Storm water pollution protection as required by the development
standards and the city code.
      (4)   Wetland delineation and mitigation may be required as determined by
the City Engineer.
   (E)   Preservation of natural conditions. The design and development of
subdivisions shall preserve insofar as possible the natural terrain, natural
drainage, existing topsoil, and trees as determined by the Administrative Land
Use Authority for the preliminary subdivision applications.
   (F)   Hazards. Land subject to hazardous conditions such as slides, mud
flows, rock falls, faults, snow avalanches, possible mine subsidence, shallow
water table, open quarries, floods, and polluted or non-potable water supply
shall not be subdivided until complete mitigation of the hazards has been
properly identified and included in the subdivision improvement plans.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.115 STREET LAYOUT AND ACCESS.
   (A)   General. All streets shall conform, as much as practicable, to the
adopted general plan, transportation master plan, and the development
standards.
   (B)   Approval.
      (1)   Overall street layout and access shall be reviewed and approved as
part of the preliminary subdivision applications.
      (2)   The Administrative Land Use Authority shall have authority to
require stub roads, additional access into the development, and adjustments to
the street layout, street cross-section, and right-of-way widths.
      (3)   Such adjustments to the subdivision plan may be required to provide
connectivity among developments, provide for public safety and emergency
access, minimize public infrastructure maintenance and liability, and align
with the general plan and adopted transportation plans.
   (C)   Required ingress/egress access.
      (1)   Developments where the number of residential building units exceeds
30 along a single street shall have a minimum of two ingress/egress routes
which are two fully improved city rights-of-way.
      (2)   Thirty residential units shall include all proposed residential
units and all existing single-family buildings and lots, empty building lots,
and each apartment unit located along a single road up to and including the
nearest intersection with two existing means of ingress/egress.
      (3)   A development that extends more than 1,800 feet from a connecting
street must provide a second ingress/egress.
      (4)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The Administrative Land Use Authority for the preliminary
subdivision applications may waive these access requirements for more than 30
residential units with one point of improved ingress/egress when unique
topographic circumstances or “landlocked” (physically restrained from other
access points) from adjacent, existing developments circumstances exist.
         (b)   A waiver of these regulations may require additional development
requirements to ensure public safety standards are met.
      (5)   Private rights-of-way. Private rights-of-way may be used for
development purposes in all zoning districts subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   Private rights-of-way shall be designed and built as per the
city development standards.
         (b)   Private rights-of-way shall meet the provisions of the zoning
district.
         (c)   Private rights-of-way shall not be permitted for any portion of
road that is contained on the city transportation map.
         (d)   Private rights-of-way shall not be permitted if the road serves
to connect other rights-of-way or subdivisions.
         (e)   Private rights-of-way shall meet all requirements of the
International Fire Code, Appendix D.
         (f)   All development on private rights of way of two lots or more
shall establish a homeowners’ association or similar organization that will be
responsible for the care and maintenance of any common property or utilities.
         (g)   A complete set of covenants, conditions, and restrictions
(CC&Rs) shall outline the care and maintenance of all private utilities, street
improvements, and common spaces.
         (h)   The CC&Rs shall also set forth the funding mechanism for that
maintenance.
         (i)   The CC&Rs shall be recorded and run with the land.
         (j)   An easement for all public utilities shall be provided and
dedicated to the city.
         (k)   Private rights-of-way; maintenance. The city will not be
responsible in any way for maintenance or upkeep of surface improvements for
private rights-of-way and does not guarantee services like mail or garbage
collection will extend to the residences on such streets.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.116 TRAILS.
   (A)   Required. Where a proposed subdivision includes or adjoins an existing
or planned public trail system as specified in the city’s general plan or
trails master plan, the subdivision plat shall include and provide for the
development of a public trail infrastructure in accordance with the plan.
   (B)   Improvements. Trails shall be developed with sufficient width, and to
safely accommodate two-way bicycle and pedestrian traffic along the trail
corridor.
      (1)   The Administrative Land Use Authority, when feasible, may allow the
trail right-of-way to be a substitute for required sidewalk and park strip area
on one side of the street right-of-way dedicated within the subdivision.
      (2)   All trail improvements shall be dedicated to the city or an agreed
upon non-profit third party, for the operation and maintenance after final
acceptance.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.117 FENCING.
   (A)   Purpose. Provide increased safety from potential dangers due to
agricultural activities, water courses, high-speed traffic, and other potential
dangers or hazards by requiring a barrier between potentially incompatible land
uses.
   (B)   Requirement. Fencing shall be required under the following conditions:
      (1)   Bordering agricultural land.
         (a)   A six-foot high fence is required between the subdivision (any
zone) and any land that is zoned Agricultural (A).
         (b)   Fencing material shall be chain link unless otherwise approved
by the Administrative Land Use Authority.
      (2)   Bordering canals.
         (a)   A six-foot high fence is required where the subdivision borders
a primary irrigation ditch, canal, canal right-of-way/easement, or canal
property whereon the canal is located.
         (b)   Fencing material shall be chain link unless otherwise approved
by the Administrative Land Use Authority.
      (3)   Bordering interstate.
         (a)   A six-foot high fence is required where building lots are
adjacent to Interstate 15. The fence shall be installed along the I-15 right-
of-way line.
         (b)   The fencing material shall be any solid fence.
      (4)   Buffer yard.
         (a)   A six-foot high fence and/or wall as required by the
Administrative Land Use Authority.
         (b)   Fencing/wall material shall be approved by the Administrative
Land Use Authority.
      (5)   Multiple conditions. In the case where one or more of the fencing
conditions listed above exist in the same location, the more restrictive
requirement shall govern.
   (C)   Other fencing materials. The listed material shall be required unless
a different type of fencing material matches the look and feel of other
adjacent fencing materials as requested by the applicant and approved by the
Administrative Land Use Authority. In no case can the quality or purpose be
less than the listed size and material.
   (D)   Authority.
      (1)   The Administrative Land Use Authority shall have authority to
implement reasonable fencing requirements for conditions other than those
stated above where potential dangers are currently present or will be present
after the development of the subdivision.
      (2)   The Administrative Land Use Authority shall also have the authority
to waive the fencing requirement where its removal will not compromise safety
or does not accomplish the intent of the fence.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.118 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   The developer shall pay for all outdoor street lighting fixtures and
the cost of their installation.
   (B)   The placement and installation of street lighting shall be in
accordance with the adopted development standards.
   (C)   The developer shall be required to get power installed into the
subdivision and notify the city when power is available.
   (D)   The city is responsible for ordering the streetlights. The
streetlights shall then be installed and maintained by the city’s authorized
contractor.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.119 EASEMENTS.
   General utility easements.
   (A)   A minimum ten-foot general utility easement shall traverse the
frontage(s) of each lot.
   (B)   The Administrative Land Use Authority may require additional easements
to accommodate utility planning and future access.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.120 LOTS AND PARCELS.
   (A)   The lot arrangement, design, and shape shall be such that lots will
provide satisfactory and desirable sites for structures and be properly related
to topography and conform to requirements set forth herein. Side lines of lots
shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to the street line whenever
possible and desirable.
   (B)   Lots shall not contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely to provide
necessary square footage or frontage, which would be unusable for normal
purposes.
   (C)   For subdivisions containing more than two residential building lots,
no lots shall directly access an arterial or collector street.
   (D)   All lots shown on the final plat must conform to the minimum
requirements of the zoning code for the zone in which the subdivision is
located, except for remainder parcels as follows:
      (1)   Shall be described on the final plat as a remainder parcel;
however, an exception may be granted by the City Engineer.
      (2)   May be used for agricultural purposes but shall not be eligible for
habitation, commercial uses, or primary structures.
      (3)   May not be eligible for building permits and may not be eligible
for other permitted uses.
      (4)   All limitations and restrictions shall be clearly noted on the
final plat.
   (E)   Each lot shall have frontage on an improved public road as required in
the zoning code and the development standards unless a permanent access
easement and shared driveway has been approved.
   (F)   All remnants of land left over after subdividing, shall be attached to
adjacent lots or made part of the common area governed by a community/
homeowners’ association, rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (G)   All lands within the boundaries of the subdivision shall be accounted
for, either as lots, right of way, or as remainder parcels.
   (H)   Lots having double frontage shall not be approved except where
necessitated by topographic or other unusual conditions or where the lots are
adjacent to a road that does not permit direct access (exception: corner lots).
   (I)   Contiguous parcels owned by different parties may be embraced in one
final plat, provided that all owners join in the dedication and
acknowledgments.
   (J)   A lot shall not be divided by a city limit or county limit line. Such
boundary lines shall be made at lot lines.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.121 UTILITIES TO BE UNDERGROUND.
   (A)   (1)   All utilities, including those that are normally overhead shall
be placed underground in all subdivisions.
      (2)   Exception. Wireless communication equipment or where underground
connection is not permitted by the utility company.
   (B)   The developer shall establish final utility grades prior to utilities
being placed underground.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 150.170 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is provided to allow the opportunity for a applicant
(s) to present for review and decision an application for a modification to the
public works standards, if the applicant(s) believes that special circumstances
exist that merit such modification (hereinafter “special exception”). It is the
intent of this subchapter that a decision related to a special exception
application be a discretionary action by the Council, acting as the land use
authority. A decision by the Council related to a special exception application
shall be accompanied by findings of fact, following the receipt of a Commission
recommendation, such recommendation also being accompanied by findings of fact.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the procedures and requirements
for the consideration of a special exception are provided to promote the full
consideration of all items related to the proposed special exception. The
Commission shall identify and address all items applicable to a special
exception application prior to providing a recommendation to the Council.
   (C)   The Council shall identify and address all items applicable to a
special exception application prior to approving, approving with requirements,
or denying the special exception application.
§ 150.171 SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATION - COUNCIL IDENTIFIED AS LAND USE
AUTHORITY - COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Council is hereby identified as the land use authority for a
special exception application.
   (B)   Prior to the Council considering a special exception application, the
Commission shall transmit a recommendation to the Council. The review
procedures for the consideration of a special exception application by the
Council herein.
§ 150.172 ALLOWED SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The following special exceptions may be considered and decided by the
Council, following the receipt of a Commission recommendation, as required by §
150.170 herein:
   (A)   Delayed installation of road and street improvements to a time certain
other than required by the public works standards;
   (B)   The installation of a “half-street” other than required by the public
works standards.
§ 150.173 SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATIONS - APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All special exception applications, filed in the office of the city, shall
provide the following information, necessary for the city to determine the
application complete, as required by §
150.175 herein.
   (A)   Application form. A special exception application form, completed and
signed by the owner(s) of the subject property, or authorized agent of the
owner(s). If the application form is signed by an authorized agent of the owner
(s), the application form shall be accompanied by an affidavit identifying the
agent as being duly authorized to represent the owner(s) in all matters related
to the special exception application. All persons with a fee interest in the
subject property shall be required to join in and sign the special exception
application.
   (B)   Special exception application fees. The special exception application
shall include the payment of the all special exception application fees and
review fees, as established by the Council, and any total amount, or deposit
amount, required to provide the services of the City Engineer, as provided and
required by §
150.174 herein.
   (C)   Preliminary subdivision plat materials. A special exception
application shall provide one copy of all materials required for a complete
preliminary subdivision application, as required by §
150.068 herein, except divisions (A) and (B).
   (D)   Special exception statement of justification and reasons statement of
reasons. A special exception application shall include a statement of
justification and reasons, provided by the applicant(s), detailing the basis
for the proposed special exception for the subject property and identifying all
circumstances and unique situations particular to the subject property that
provide a basis, and warrant a favorable recommendation by the Commission for
such special exception, and the approval of the special exception application
by the Council.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.174 SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATION - FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION -
ENGINEERING AND ATTORNEY REVIEW FEES.
   The applicant(s) for a special exception application approval shall pay all
costs incurred by the city for the provision of city engineering and attorney
services, provided by a licensed engineer and attorney selected by the city,
and necessary to review the final subdivision application materials for
conformity to the requirements of this subchapter and other applicable land use
ordinances and requirements, and accepted civil engineering practice.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.175 CITY TO DETERMINE A COMPLETE SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Within 30 calendar days of the special exception application
being filed in the office of the city, and prior to the special exception
application being scheduled with the Commission, the city shall determine and
find that the special exception application is complete and contains all the
information and material required for a complete special exception application,
as required by §
150.173 herein.
      (2)   The city shall determine a special exception application submitted
and complete when the application is provided in a form that complies with all
the requirements of §
150.173 herein, and all applicable special exception application fees have been
paid.
      (3)   The city shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the result of
such determination.
      (4)   Following a determination of a complete special exception
application, the city shall schedule the special exception application for
consideration with the Commission complying with all notice requirements for a
public meeting to consider a special exception, as required by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   A special exception application lacking any of the special
exception application information and materials, as required by §
150.173 herein, shall be cause for the city to determine the special exception
application, as incomplete.
      (2)   The requirements of §
150.176 shall apply to all special exception applications determined to be
incomplete.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.176 DETERMINATION OF AN INCOMPLETE SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATION.
   (A)   A determination of an incomplete special exception application by the
city shall prohibit the city from scheduling the special exception application
with the Commission and Council and shall prohibit the Commission or Council
from considering any information or material related to the proposed special
exception.
   (B)   (1)   Following a determination of an incomplete special exception
application by the city, the city shall notify the applicant, in writing, of
the information lacking from the special exception application.
      (2)   The city shall allow a minimum of 30 calendar days, from the date
of notification of an incomplete special exception application, for the
applicant to provide the required information.
      (3)   If the special exception application remains incomplete after a
minimum of 30 calendar days from date of notification, the city shall return
the entire incomplete special exception application to the applicant(s),
including any special exception application review fees paid.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.177 APPEAL OF A DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION COMPLETENESS DECISION BY THE
CITY.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the city related to a determination of
application completeness may appeal the decision to the Commission, the
Commission acting as the Appeal Authority for determinations of application
completeness decisions.
§ 150.178 SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   As provided by §
150.171 the Council is the land use authority for special exception
applications.
   (B)   The review and approval procedures for a special exception application
may be conducted concurrently with those required for a preliminary subdivision
application.
§ 150.179 SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATION - APPROVAL STANDARDS - REASONABLE
APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Council shall not approve, and the Commission shall not recommend
approval of a special exception application, unless the evidence presented by
the applicant(s) clearly establishes the proposed special exception:
      (1)   Is an allowed special exception, as identified hereby;
      (2)   Will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
improvements in the vicinity;
      (3)   Will not create any nuisance; and
      (4)   Sufficient evidence has been provided by the applicant(s) to
establish that circumstances exist on the subject property that provides a
clear and reasonable basis for the approval of the special exception
application.
   (B)   The Council may require, and the Commission may recommend, reasonable
requirements determined necessary to ensure the special exception will not be
detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the city residents, and will
not create a nuisance. For a special exception application requesting delayed
installation of road and street improvements to a time certain other than
required by the public works standards, the Council shall require such road and
street improvements be installed at a time certain, and require necessary
guarantees sufficient to guarantee the installation of the required road and
street improvements, as required by the Council with the approval of the
special exception application.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.180 EFFECT OF APPROVAL, WITH OR WITHOUT REQUIREMENTS, OR A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION APPLICATION AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   (A)   (1)   The approval of a special exception application, with or without
requirements, by the Council shall not constitute a final approval of any
subdivision or any other land use application by the city.
      (2)   A special exception application approval shall not authorize the
division or development of the subject property, but allows the applicant(s) to
proceed with the preparation of the final subdivision application for the
subject property.
   (B)   (1)   The continuing validity of a special exception application is
conditioned upon the applicant(s) proceeding after approval to implement the
approval with reasonable diligence.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter and this section, the approval
of a special exception application shall be effective for a period of one year
from the date of approval by the Council, at the end of which time the
applicant(s) shall have submitted a final subdivision application to the city.
      (3)   If a final subdivision application is not received in the city
within one year, the special exception application approval for the subject
property shall be rendered void and invalid.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.181 SITE PREPARATION WORK PROHIBITED.
   No excavation, and no grading or regrading, shall take place on any subject
property, and no building permits shall be issued by the city, until a final
subdivision application has been approved and the final subdivision plat has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.182 APPEAL OF SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATION DECISIONS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Council related to a special
exception application may appeal the decision to District Court, the court
acting as the Appeal Authority for special exception application decisions by
the Council.
GUARANTEES FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS,
FACILITIES, AND AMENITIES
§ 150.195 NECESSARY GUARANTEES.
   (A)   As part of the final subdivision application approval, and recording
of the final subdivision plat in the County Recorder’s office, the land use
authority shall require the necessary guarantees and securities sufficient to
ensure the installation and construction of all required subdivision
improvements, facilities, services and amenities, as applicable, and as
provided and required by the public works standards, as adopted.
   (B)   An applicant for final subdivision approval shall guarantee the
installation of all required subdivision improvements, facilities, services,
and amenities, as applicable, by the following methods.
      (1)   The applicant shall deposit in escrow with an escrow holder
approved by the City Attorney an amount of money equal to the cost of the
subdivision improvements, as estimated by the City Engineer, plus an additional
10%, to assure the installation of such subdivision improvements within a two-
year period from the approval of the final subdivision application, which
escrow agreement shall be approved by the City Attorney and shall be filed with
the City Recorder.
      (2)   The applicant shall furnish and file with the City Recorder a
letter of credit in an amount equal to the cost of the subdivision
improvements, estimated by the City Engineer, plus an additional 10%, to assure
the installation of such subdivision improvements within a two-year period
immediately following the approval of the final subdivision application, which
letter of credit shall be approved by the City Attorney and shall be filed with
the City Recorder. The financial institution, in the letter of credit, shall
provide the assurance that the applicant shall not be allowed to encumber those
funds for any other development or any other obligation other than for the
outlined subdivision; and that the city shall be allowed to access those funds,
if necessary, to finish the subdivision improvements if the applicant fails to
do so.
   (C)   A subdivision improvement agreement is required on all subdivisions
requiring infrastructure improvements or improvements being dedicated to the
city. See §
150.199 for a sample of a subdivision improvement agreement.
(Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.196 INSPECTION OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Engineer shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, all required
subdivision improvements in the course of construction, installation, or
repair. No excavations for the installation of any subdivision improvements
shall be covered or backfilled until such installation shall have been approved
by the City Engineer. If any such installation is covered before being
inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered after notice to uncover has been
issued to the applicant by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.197 CONDITION OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS - GUARANTEE PERIOD.
   The applicant shall warrant and guarantee the subdivision improvements
provided for herein and every part thereof, will remain in good condition for a
minimum period of one year after the City Engineer has accepted the subdivision
improvements in writing, and the applicant agrees to make all repairs to and
maintain the subdivision improvements and every part thereof in good working
condition during the guarantee period with no cost to the city.
(Ord. 2020-006, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.198 DEFAULT.
   In the event the applicant defaults, or fails or neglects to satisfactorily
install the required subdivision improvements within two years from the date of
final subdivision application approval, the City Council may declare the
guarantee to be in default and may require the installation of all required
subdivision improvements using the guarantee amounts for such installation of
subdivision improvements.
(Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 150.199 SAMPLE SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT AND ESCROW CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Sample subdivision improvement agreement.
 
ELWOOD CITY
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT
   Parties. The parties to this subdivision improvement agreement (“the agreement”)
are ____________________(“the developer”), ___________________ (“bank”), and Elwood
City (“the city”).
   Effective date. The effective date of this agreement will be the date that final
subdivision plat approval is granted by the Elwood City Council (“the City
Council”).
   (A)   Recitals.
   WHEREAS, the developer seeks permission to subdivide property within the Elwood
City, to be known as _______________________________________ (the “subdivision”),
which property is more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto and
incorporated herein by this reference (the “property”); and
   WHEREAS, the city seeks to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents by requiring the completion of various improvements in the subdivision
and thereby to limit the harmful effects of substandard subdivisions, including
premature subdivisions which leave property undeveloped and unproductive; and
 
   WHEREAS, the purpose of this agreement is to protect the city from the cost of
completing subdivision improvements itself and is not executed for the benefit of
material, men, laborers, or others providing work, services or material to the
subdivision or for the benefit of lot or home buyers in the subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations contained in this agreement
are authorized by state law and the city’s subdivision ordinances:
   THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:
   (B)   Developer’s and bank’s obligations.
      (1)   Improvements. The developer will construct and install, at his, her, or their
own expense, those on-site and off-site subdivision improvements listed along with the
cost of those improvements on Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein by this
reference (“improvements” or “improvement”). The developer’s obligation to complete the
improvements will arise upon final plat approval by the city, will be independent of any
obligations of the city contained herein, and will not be conditioned on the commencement
of construction in the development or sale of any lots or improvements within the
development.
      (2)   Security. To secure the performance of the developer’s obligations hereunder,
the developer shall, prior to the effective date, deposit escrow or provide a letter of
credit in the amount of $______________. This amount is the estimated costs for
construction and guaranty of said improvements and facilities as specifically itemized in
Exhibit B, plus an additional 10% and which also includes the estimated cost for the
city’s inspections and administration. This amount is for the purpose of guaranteeing the
completion of said improvements. The escrow or letter of credit hereinafter referred to
as “escrow” or “letter,” depending on the form, will be issued by
___________________________ Bank (or other financial institution approved by the city) to
be known as (“bank”), will be payable at sight to the city and will bear an expiration
date not earlier than two years after the effective date of this agreement. The escrow or
letter will be payable to the city at any time upon presentation of:
         (a)   A sight draft drawn on the issuing bank in the amount to which the city is
entitled to draw pursuant to the terms of this agreement; or
         (b)   An affidavit executed by an authorized city official stating that the
developer is in default under this agreement; and
         (c)   The original of the escrow certificate. An escrow certificate will be
presented to the city, will be attached as Exhibit C to this agreement, will be
substantially similar to the escrow certificate attached hereto and titled “Example of
Escrow Certificate,” and will be incorporated herein by this reference.
      (3)   Standards. The developer will construct the improvements according to the
public works standards and technical specifications adopted by the city, as incorporated
herein by this reference.
      (4)   Warranty. The developer shall warrant and guarantee the improvements provided
for herein and every part thereof, will remain in good condition for a minimum period of
one year, after the City Engineer has accepted the improvements in writing, and the
developer agrees to make all repairs to and maintain the Improvements and every part
thereof in good working condition during the guarantee period with no cost to the city.
      (5)   Completion periods. The developer will commence work on the improvements
within one year from the effective date of this agreement (the “commencement period”) and
the improvements, each and every one of them, will be completed within two years from the
effective date of this agreement (the “completion period”).
      (6)   Compliance with law. The developer will comply with all relevant laws,
ordinances, and regulations in effect at the time of final subdivision plat approval when
fulfilling his, her, or their obligations under this agreement. When necessary to protect
public health, the developer will be subject to laws, ordinances, and regulations that
become effective after final plat approval.
 
      (7)   Dedication. The developer will dedicate to the city or other applicable
agency as designated by the city the improvements listed on Exhibit B attached hereto
and incorporated herein by this reference pursuant to the procedure described in this
agreement.
   (C)   City’s obligations.
      (1)   Plat approval. The city will grant final subdivision plat approval to the
subdivision under the terms and conditions previously agreed to by the parties if those
terms and conditions are consistent with all relevant state laws and local ordinances in
effect at the time of final plat approval. Release of the final plat Mylar shall not be
released for recording until this agreement is executed and the escrow agent or
financial institution has issued a certificate that the funds have been secured with
them in accordance with this agreement.
      (2)   Inspection and certification. The City Engineer will inspect the
improvements as they are being constructed and, if acceptable to the City Engineer,
certify such improvements as being in compliance with the standards and specifications
of the city. Developer shall notify the City Engineer of its intent to install or
commence installation of each off-site and on-site improvement within 24 hours prior to
commencement so that the City Engineer, or an authorized representative, may inspect and
verify and approve such installation. Such inspection and certification by the City
Engineer, if appropriate, will occur within seven days of notice by the developer that
he, she, or they desires to have the city inspect the improvements. Before obtaining
certification of any such improvements, the developer will present to the city valid
lien waivers from all persons providing materials or performing work on the improvements
for which certification is sought. Certification by the City Engineer does not
constitute a waiver by the city of the right to draw funds under the escrow or letter on
account of defects in or failure of any improvement that is detected or which occurs
following such certification. All fees, including drive time to site, for inspections
and reviews of the improvements by the City Engineer shall be paid by the developer to
the city within 30 days of receiving an invoice from the city of those City Engineer
fees.
      (3)   Notice of defect. The city will provide timely notice to the developer
whenever inspection reveals that an improvement does not conform to the standards and
specifications shown on the approved subdivision improvement drawings on file in the
City Engineer’s office or is otherwise defective. The developer will have 30 days from
the issuance of such notice to cure or substantially cure the defect. The city may not
declare a default under the agreement during the 30-day defect. The developer will have
no right to cure defects in or failure of any improvement found to exist or occurring
after the city accepts dedication of the improvement(s).
      (4)   Acceptance of dedication. The city or other applicable agency will accept
the dedication of any validly certified improvement within 30 days of the developer’s
offer to dedicate the improvement. The city or agency’s acceptance of dedication is
expressly conditioned on the presentation by the developer of a policy of title
insurance, where appropriate, for the benefit of the city showing that the developer
owns the improvement in fee simple and that there are no liens, encumbrances, or other
restrictions on the improvement unacceptable to the city in its reasonable judgment.
Acceptance of the dedication of any improvement does not constitute a waiver by the city
of the right to draw funds under the escrow on account of any defect in or failure of
the improvement that is detected or which occurs after the acceptance of the dedication.
The improvements must be offered to the city in no more than one dedication per month.
      (5)   Reduction of security. After the acceptance of any improvement, the amount
which the city is entitled to draw on the escrow or letter may be reduced by an amount
equal to 90% of the estimated cost of the improvement as shown on Exhibit B. At the
request of the developer upon completion and acceptance of any improvements, the City
Engineer will execute a certificate of release verifying the acceptance of the
improvement and waiving its right to draw on the escrow to the extent of such amount. A
developer in default under this agreement will have no right to such a certificate. At
the same time as the certificate of release, the developer may file with the City
Engineer a written request for partial withdrawal from said improvements construction
account for payment of those certified and accepted improvements. Approval by the City
Engineer shall be given within ten working days. City Engineer will authorize in writing
to the escrow or letter holder to disburse direct payments, up to the costs of
construction and inspections listed in Exhibit B, to the developer’s contractor, or
persons furnishing such services as requested by developer. The improvements
construction account shall not be reduced to an amount less than the 10% subdivision
guaranty surety listed in attached Exhibit C. Upon the acceptance of all of the
improvements, the balance that may be drawn under the escrow or letter will be available
to the city for 90 days after expiration of the one year warranty period. Nothing
contained herein shall prevent developer from paying any or all costs of improvements
from separate financial sources or funds, should developer determine to do so.
 
      (6)   Use of proceeds. The city will use funds drawn under the escrow or letter only
for the purpose of completing the improvements or correcting defects in or failures of the
improvements.
   (D)   Other provisions.
      (1)   Events of default. The following conditions, occurrences or actions will
constitute a default by the developer during the construction period:
         (a)   Developer’s failure to commence construction of the improvements within one
year of final subdivision plat approval;
         (b)   Developer’s failure to complete construction of the improvements within two
years of final subdivision plat approval;
         (c)   Developer’s failure to cure the defective construction of any improvement
within the applicable cure period;
         (d)   Developer’s insolvency, the appointment of a receiver for the developer, or
the filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy respecting the developer;
         (e)   Foreclosure of any lien against the property or a portion of the property or
assignment or conveyance of the property in lieu of foreclosure; and
         (f)   The city may not declare a default until written notice of developer’s default
has been given to the developer and developer has been given ten days from the date of the
notice to respond.
      (2)   Measure of damages. The measure of damages for breach of this agreement will be
the reasonable cost of completing the improvements. For improvements upon which construction
has not begun, the estimated cost of the improvements as shown on Exhibit B will be prima
facie evidence of the minimum cost of completion; however, neither that amount nor the amount
of the escrow establishes the maximum amount of the developer’s liability. The city will be
entitled to complete all unfinished improvements at the time of default regardless of the
extent to which development has taken place in the subdivision or whether development ever
commenced.
      (3)   City’s right upon default. When any event of default occurs, the city may draw on
the escrow or letter to the extent of the face amount of the escrow less 90% of the estimated
cost (as shown on Exhibit B) of all improvements theretofore accepted by the city. The city
will have the right to complete improvements itself or contract with a third party for
completion, and the developer hereby grants to the city, its successors, assigns, agents,
contractors and employees, a nonexclusive right and easement to enter the property for the
purposes of constructing, maintaining, and repairing such improvements. Alternatively, the
city may assign the proceeds of the escrow to a subsequent developer (or a lender) who has
acquired the subdivision by purchase, foreclosure, or otherwise who will then have the same
rights of completion as the city if and only if the subsequent developer (or lender) agrees
in writing to complete the unfinished improvements. In addition, the city also may suspend
final plat approval during which time the developer will have no right to sell, transfer, or
otherwise convey lots or homes within the subdivision without the express written approval of
the city or until the improvements are completed and approved by the city. These remedies are
cumulative in nature except that during the warranty period, the city’s only remedy will be
to draw funds under the escrow.
 
      (4)   Indemnification. The developer hereby expressly agrees to indemnify and hold
the city harmless from and against all claims, costs, and liability of every kind and
nature, for injury or damage received or sustained by any person or entity in connection
with, or on account of the performance of work at the development site and elsewhere
pursuant to this agreement. The developer further agrees to aid and defend the city in
the event that the city is named as a defendant in an action concerning the performance
of work pursuant to this agreement except where such suit is brought by the developer.
The developer is not an agent or employee of the city.
      (5)   No waiver. No waiver of any provision of this agreement will be deemed or
constitute a waiver of any other provision, nor will it be deemed or constitute a
continuing waiver unless expressly provided for by a written amendment to this agreement
signed by both city and developer; nor will the waiver of any default under this
agreement be deemed a waiver of any subsequent default or defaults of the same type. The
city’s failure to exercise any right under this agreement will not constitute the
approval of any wrongful act by the developer or the acceptance of any improvement.
      (6)   Amendment or modification. The parties to this agreement may amend or modify
this agreement only by written instrument executed by the city and by the developer or
his, her, or their authorized officer. Such amendment or modification will be properly
notarized before it may be effective.
      (7)   Attorney’s fees. Should either party be required to resort to litigation,
arbitration, or mediation to enforce the terms of this agreement, the prevailing party,
plaintiff or defendant, will be entitled to costs including reasonable attorney’s fees
and expert witness fees, from the opposing party. If the court, arbitrator, or mediator
awards relief to both parties, each will bear its own costs in their entirety.
      (8)   Vested rights. The city does not warrant by this agreement that the
developer is entitled to any other approval(s) required by the city, if any, before the
developer is entitled to commence development of the subdivision or to transfer
ownership of property in the subdivision.
      (9)   Third party rights. No person or entity who or which is not a party to this
agreement will have any right of action under this agreement, except that if the city
does not exercise its rights within 60 days following knowledge of any event of default,
a purchaser of a lot or home in the subdivision may bring an action in mandamus to
compel the city to exercise its rights.
      (10)   Scope. This agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
and no statement(s), promise(s) or inducement(s) that is/are not contained in this
agreement will be binding on the parties.
      (11)   Time. For the purpose of computing the commencement, abandonment, and
completion periods, and time periods for city action, such times in which civil
disaster, acts of God, or extreme weather conditions occur or exist will not be included
if such times prevent the developer or city from performing obligations under the
agreement.
      (12)   Severability. If any part, term or provision of this agreement is held by
the courts to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, such illegality or unenforceability
will not affect the validity of any other part, term or provision and the rights of the
parties will be construed as if the part, term, or provision was never part of the
agreement.
      (13)   Benefits. The benefits of this agreement to the developer are personal and
may not be assigned without the express written approval of the city. Such approval may
not be unreasonably withheld, but any unapproved assignment is void. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the burdens of this agreement are personal obligations of the developer and
also will be binding on the heirs, successors, and assigns of the developer. There is no
prohibition on the right of the city to assign its rights under this agreement. The city
will release the original developer’s escrow or letter if it accepts new security from
any developer or lender who obtains the property. However, no act of the city will
constitute a release of the original developer from this liability under this agreement.
 
 
      (14)   Notice. Any notice required or permitted by this agreement will be deemed
effective when personally delivered in writing or three days after notice is deposited
with the U.S. Postal Service, postage prepaid, certified, and return receipt requested,
and addressed as follows:
   If to developer (Attn) ______________________________________________    
   (Address) ______________________________________
   If to city:   Attn: City Engineer
            5871 N. 4700 W.
            Elwood City, UT 84301
      (15)   Recordation. Either developer or city may record a copy of this agreement
in the Clerk and Recorder’s office of Box Elder County, Utah.
      (16)    Immunity. Nothing contained in this agreement constitutes a waiver of the
city’s sovereign immunity under any applicable state law.
      (17)   Legal counsel. The city has been represented by legal counsel and developer
acknowledges that they have had an opportunity to consult with legal counsel before
signing this document. The parties acknowledge that they each voluntarily sign this
agreement believing it to be in their best interests. The parties acknowledge that the
various rights and awards granted herein are contractual and based upon the
consideration bestowed by each upon the other through the provisions of this agreement.
      (18)   Personal jurisdiction and venue. Personal jurisdiction and venue for any
civil action commenced by either party to this agreement whether arising out of or
relating to the agreement or escrow or letter will be deemed to be proper only if such
action is commenced in the First District Court in Box Elder County. The developer
expressly waives their right to bring such action in or to remove such action to any
other court whether state or federal.
__________________________________      __________________________________
Developer            Date      Bank               Date
___________________________________
Mayor, Elwood City       Date
ATTEST:
___________________________________
Elwood City Recorder      Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
_______________________________
City Attorney         Date
EXHIBIT A: PROPERTY DESCRIPTION TO BE SUBDIVIDED
EXHIBIT B: REQUIRED ON & OFF SITE SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
EXHIBIT C: FINANCIAL GUARANTEE
 
 
   (B)   Sample escrow certificate.
 
EXHIBIT C
EXAMPLE OF
ESCROW CERTIFICATE
TO ELWOOD CITY, UTAH:
   The undersigned Escrow Agent does hereby certify that it has in its possession
and custody, cash in the sum of $____________________________ which said sum Escrow
Agent is holding in escrow to guarantee the installation and completion, according
to ordinance, of all off-site improvements, as specified in Exhibit “A” on the
following described tracts of land in the City of Elwood, Utah to wit:
   In the event the funds so provided herein do not pay for and complete in full
all of the specified improvements set forth in Exhibit “A” and as contemplated
herein, then and in that event, developer agrees to forthwith pay to Elwood City
all additional amounts necessary to so complete such improvement.
   Said Escrow Agent hereby covenants and agrees that it will not release said
funds to any person, firm or corporation (other than as is hereinafter provided)
without the express written consent and direction from said Elwood City, Utah and
that if said improvements are not satisfactorily installed and completed according
to code within one month short of two years from the date hereof, that the said
Escrow Agent will, upon demand, deliver said funds to said Elwood City, Utah for
the sole purpose of making and/or completing all of said improvements, with said
city to return to the said Escrow Agent any and all funds which may prove to be in
excess of the actual cost to the city to make and/or complete said improvements.
   It is understood that the city may, at its sole option, extend said period of
two years for such completion of such improvements upon request of the Escrow Agent
or the subdivider, if the City Council determines that such extension is proper.
   It is further understood and agreed that all matters concerning this agreement
shall be subject to appropriate ordinances and code provisions adopted by said
Elwood City, Utah.
   DATED this _____ day of __________, 20_____
   _____________________________Escrow Agent signature
   ______________________________Please print name and title
 
 
(Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, who shall transfer or sell, or cause to be
transferred or sold, any lot or land in a subdivision, which subdivision has
not been approved by the city, and recorded in the office of the County
Recorder, shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor for each lot or parcel of
land so transferred sold, and the description of such lot or parcel of land by
metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer, or other document used in the
process of selling or transferring, shall not exempt the transaction from such
penalties or from the remedies provided in this chapter.
      (2)   The city may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by action
for injunction brought in any court of equity jurisdiction, or may recover the
penalty by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction, together with
costs and attorney fees incurred in enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be fined not to exceed the maximum
Class B misdemeanor fine under UCA § 76-3-301 or by a term of imprisonment up
to six months, or by both the fine and term of imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, the public
works standards in Chapter V, or failing to obtain the necessary inspections
and tests required for public improvements and infrastructure shall be assessed
a fine as stated in the city’s current adopted Fee Schedule. Fines may be
applied daily and separately for each violation.
   (D)   The city may bring an action against an owner to require the property
to conform to the provisions of this chapter,
Chapter 155, or any other applicable law. The action may include an injunction,
abatement, merger of title, or any other appropriate action or proceedings to
prevent, enjoin, or abate the violation. The city need only establish the
violation to obtain the injunction.
(Ord. 2024-001, passed 10-8-2024)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Findings of fact
   
151.02   Statement of purpose
   
151.03   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Special flood hazard areas
   
151.06   Development permit
   
151.07   Compliance
   
151.08   Abrogation and interpretation
   
151.09   Warning and disclaimer or liability
Administration
   
151.20   Designation of floodplain administrator
   
151.21   Duties and responsibilities of floodplain administrator
   
151.22   Permit procedures
   
151.23   Variance procedures
   
151.24   Authority of city
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.35   General standards
   
151.36   Specific standards
   
151.37   Standards for subdivision proposals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
§ 151.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F) Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
§ 151.03 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development, which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform, which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, or VO Zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building:
      (1)   Built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of
the water; and
      (2)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of
the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the
case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, ELEVATED BUILDING also
includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood
waters. In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or V, ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a
building otherwise meeting the definition of ELEVATED BUILDING, even though the
lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met
the standards of § 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary and floodway map.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning codes, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic
preservation programs that have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvement and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways, nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms,
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage,”
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications, which have been identified by
the local Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary
conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this
ordinance when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this chapter. (For full requirements, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) (or other datum, where specified), of floods
of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
§ 151.05 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood
Insurance Study for Elwood City” dated with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions thereto
are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (C)   The city atomically adopts, accepts, and regulates updated FEMA maps
as they come affected.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
§ 151.06 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.08 ABROGATION AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict
or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (B)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
§ 151.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.20 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of
C.F.R. Title 44 (National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 4001 through 4138) pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
§ 151.21 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny, all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
151.05, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.35 through
151.37.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009)
§ 151.22 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him, her, or them and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
151.36(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
151.21(A).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.23 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgement on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgement on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
151.22(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter. (See §
151.02.)
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.24 AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   (A)   Assures the Federal Emergency Management Agency that it will enact as
necessary, and maintain in force, in those areas having flood hazards, adequate
land use and control measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent
with the criteria set forth in § 60 of the National Flood Insurance Program
Regulations, being 44 C.F.R. subpart A, 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.1 et seq.; and
   (B)   Vests the city with the responsibility, authority, and means to:
      (1)    Assist the Administrator, at his, her, or their request, in the
delineation of the limits of the area having special flood hazards;
      (2)   Provide such information concerning present uses and occupancy of
the floodplain, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), or flood-related erosion areas as the
Administrator may request;
      (3)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request, for the
determination of applicable flood insurance risk premium rates within all areas
having special flood hazards identified on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM)
or Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), any certificates of floodproofing, and
information on the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the level of
the lowest flood (including basement) of all new construction or substantially
improved structures, and include whether or not such structures contain a
basement, and if the structure has been floodproofed, the elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which the structure was floodproofed;
      (4)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow), or flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring
communities with respect to management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide,
(i.e., mudflow), and/or flood-related erosion areas in order to prevent
aggravation of existing hazards;
      (5)   Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever the
boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In order that all
FHBM’s and FIRM’s accurately represent the community’s boundaries, include
within such notification a copy of the map of the community suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority; and
      (6)   Submit an annual report to the Administrator concerning the
community’s participation in the program, including, but not limited to the
development and implementation of floodplain management measures.
   (C)   Appoints the city with the responsibility, authority, and means to
implement the commitments as outlined in this subchapter; and
   (D)   Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the adopted floodplain management
measures.
(Res. 2009-004, 5-12-2009)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
151.05,
151.21(H), and
151.37(C), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. 
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement), elevated to or
above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor
shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard
of this division (A) as proposed in §
151.22(A)(1) is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. 
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated to or above the base flood level or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/
or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction,
and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this division (B).
      (3)   A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Manufactured homes. 
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
      (3)   Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (4)   This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.37 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
151.01 through
151.03.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of §§
151.06,
151.22, and
151.35 through
151.37.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
151.05 or
151.21(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: RENEWABLE ENERGY
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Jurisdiction
   
152.04   Interpretation
   
152.05   Definitions
Procedures
   
152.20   General procedures
   
152.21   Public notice
   
152.22   Review and approval procedures
Solar Energy System Standards
   
152.35   Small wind energy conversion systems standards
   
152.36   Solar energy system standards
   
152.37   Roof-mounted solar systems
   
152.38   Pole-mounted solar energy systems
   
152.39   Ground-mounted solar energy systems
   
152.40   Wall-mounted solar energy systems
   
152.41   Photovoltaic solar energy systems
   
152.42   Reflecting solar energy systems
   
152.43   Commercial/industrial solar energy systems
   
152.44   Right to maintain access to renewable energy source
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   The title of the ordinance codified herein is the “Elwood City Renewable
Energy Ordinance,” and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is established to regulate the installation and operation of
renewable energy systems within the city not otherwise subject to siting and
oversight by the state. In no case shall the provisions of this chapter
guarantee rights to solar access for new systems.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 152.03 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall apply to all areas of the city.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 152.04 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter, shall at a minimum, promote and protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare. Where the provisions of this chapter impose
greater restrictions than those of any statute, ordinance, or regulations, the
provisions of this chapter shall be controlling. Where the provisions of any
statute, ordinance, or regulation impose greater restrictions than this
chapter, the provisions of such statute, other ordinance, or regulation shall
be controlling.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. To the
extent a term is used in this chapter is not defined in this section, the term
shall have the meaning given in the city zoning code.
   APPLICANT. Any person, provider, firm, partnership or company who files an
application for any permit required for this chapter for the construction,
replacement, or alteration of solar, construction, development or any component
thereof.
   APPEALS. An officially constituted quasi-judicial person appointed by the
City Council whose principle duties are to hear appeals from decisions of the
Zoning Administrator and, where appropriate, grant variances from the strict
application of this chapter.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning code exist; and
      (2)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   DWELLING. A residential building or portion thereof intended for occupancy
by a single family, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or rooming
houses, or tourist homes.
   NAMEPLATE CAPACITY. The total maximum rated output of a solar energy system.
   POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT. A legally enforceable agreement between two or
more persons where one or more of the signatories agrees to provide electrical
power and one or more of the signatories agrees to purchase the power.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A qualified individual who is licensed as a
professional engineer in the state.
   PROJECT OWNER. An individual or entity with legal ownership of a solar
project.
   RECEPTOR. Structures intended for human habitation, whether inhabited or
not, including but not limited to churches, schools, hospitals, public parks,
the manicured areas of recreational establishments designed for public use,
including but not limited to golf courses, and campgrounds.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY. Energy from sources that are not easily depleted such as
moving water (hydro, tidal and wave power), biomass, geothermal energy, solar
energy, wind energy, and energy from solid waste treatment plants.
   ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a building roof calculated by the
rise over the run, typically but not exclusively expressed in twelfths, such as
3/12, 9/12, or 12/12.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS. A structure or structures that may include a wind
turbine, a tower, footings, electrical infrastructure, and associated equipment
and structures intended to utilize wind power for the pumping of water for
agricultural use on the parcel or property on which the system is located, or
for electrical power generation for on site consumption of a main building and/
or accessory buildings or the electrical grid and that has a rated capacity of
not more than 25 kilowatts.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure, or part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
   SOLAR DAYLIGHTING. A device specifically designed to capture and redirect
the visible portion of the solar spectrum, while controlling the infrared
portion, for use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial
lighting.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY DEVICE. A system or series of mechanisms designed primarily to
provide heating, cooling, electrical power, mechanical power, solar daylighting
or to provide any combination of the foregoing by means of collecting and
transferring solar-generated energy into such uses either by active or passive
means. Said systems may also have the capacity to store energy for future
utilization. Passive solar energy systems shall clearly be designed as a solar
energy device, such as a trombe wall, and not merely part of a normal
structure, such as a window.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A set of devices that the primary purpose is to collect
solar energy and convert and store it for useful purposes including heating and
cooling buildings or other energy-using processes, or to produce generated
power by means of any combination of collecting, transferring, or converting
solar energy. This definition also includes structural design features, the
purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ACCESSORY USE. A solar energy system that is secondary
to the primary use of the parcel on which it is located and which is directly
connected to or designed to serve the energy needs of the primary use. Excess
power may be sold to a power company.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ACTIVE. A solar energy system whose primary purpose is
to harvest energy by transforming solar energy into another form of energy or
transferring heat from a collector to another medium using mechanical,
electrical, or chemical means.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING INTEGRATED. An active solar energy system that
is an integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a
separate mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or
structural component of the building. Such systems include, but are not limited
to, solar energy systems that function as roofing materials, windows,
skylights, and awnings.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GRID-INTERTIE. A photovoltaic solar energy system that
is connected to an electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNTED. A solar collector, or collectors,
located on the surface of the ground. The collector or collectors may or may
not be physically affixed, or attached to the ground. GROUND-MOUNTED SYSTEMS
include pole-mounted systems.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, LARGE. A solar energy system with a nameplate capacity
of 40 kilowatts or more.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, OFF-GRID. A photovoltaic solar energy system in which
the circuits energized by the solar energy system are not electrically
connected in any way to electric circuits that are served by an electric
utility company.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, PASSIVE. A solar energy system that captures solar
light or heat without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring
the heat via a heat exchanger.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, PHOTOVOLTAIC. An active solar energy system that
converts solar energy directly into electricity.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, PRIMARY USE. A solar energy system which is the primary
land use for the parcel on which it is located and which generates power for
sale to a power company, or other off-premises consumer.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, REFLECTING. A solar energy system that employs one or
more devices designed to reflect solar radiation onto a solar collector. This
definition includes systems of mirrors that track and focus sunlight onto
collectors located at a focal point. The collectors may be thermal or
photovoltaic.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOF-MOUNTED. A solar collector, or collectors, located
on the roof of a building or structure. The collector or collectors may or may
not be physically affixed, or attached to the roof.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL. A solar energy system with a nameplate capacity
of less than 40 kilowatts.
   SOLAR HEAT EXCHANGER. A component of a solar energy device that is used to
transfer heat from one substance to another, either liquid or gas.
   SOLAR HOT AIR SYSTEM. An active solar energy system that includes a solar
collector to provide direct supplemental space heating by heating and
recirculating conditioned building air. The most efficient performance
typically means vertically mounted on a south-facing wall. Also referred to as
SOLAR AIR HEAT or a SOLAR FURNACE.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs, including domestic hot water and hot water for commercial or
industrial purposes. Also referred to as a SOLAR THERMAL.
   SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Devices that allow the mounting of a solar collector
onto a roof surface, wall, or the ground.
   TOTAL NAME PLATE CAPACITY. The total of the maximum rated output of the
electrical power production equipment.
   ZONING CODE. The city’s zoning code, regulating the use of land and water in
the city.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017)
PROCEDURES
§ 152.20 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Building permit for a renewable energy system shall be applied for and
reviewed under the procedures established in the National Electrical Code,
state statutes, and city zoning code.
      (1)   Permit required. Renewable energy systems are a permitted use in
all zones provided that the following standards are met.
      (2)   Site plan. The site plan shall contain the date, scale, north arrow
and the following items:
         (a)   Property lines and physical dimensions of the property;
         (b)   Location, dimensions, and types of existing structures on the
property;
         (c)   Location of the proposed renewable energy systems;
         (d)   The right-of-way of any public road that is contiguous with the
property; and
         (e)   All overhead utility lines.
      (3)   Exception. Site plans are not required for roof-mounted solar
systems.
   (B)   Engineering drawings shall include, but not limited to, the following
items:
      (1)   Engineered foundation and renewable energy system drawings stamped
by a professional engineer licensed in the state;
      (2)   Engineered foundation or structure (roof and the like) where the
renewable energy system will be installed and renewable energy systems drawings
stamped by a professional engineer licensed in the state;
      (3)   An engineering stamp is not required when all of the following
requirements are met: Flush-mounted OEM racking roof installations and total
panel weight including mounting hardware does not exceed four pounds per square
foot;
      (4)   Specifications associated with the installation of the renewable
energy system and related equipment; and/or
      (5)   The location of all emergency power disconnect switches.
   (C)   There shall be no signs posted on a renewable energy system or any
associated building, except for the manufacturer’s or installer’s
identification, appropriate warning signs, or owner identification.
   (D)   Renewable energy systems and equipment shall be labeled and secured to
prevent unauthorized access.
   (E)   Systems shall not cause interference with television, satellite,
microwave, navigational, or radio reception to neighboring properties and
areas.
   (F)   All renewable energy systems must be placed in rear yards, except
roof-mounted solar systems.
   (G)   Systems shall be in compliance with any applicable local, state, and
federal regulatory standards, including, but not limited to, the state’s
Uniform Building Code, as amended, and the National Electric Code, as amended.
   (H)   Renewable energy systems that are out-of-service for a continuous
period of 365 days shall be deemed to have been abandoned and shall either be
recommissioned into service as installed or decommissioned and removed, as well
as all associated apparatus. Roof-mounted solar systems are exempt from this
requirement.
   (I)   Signing the building permit application constitutes as evidence of the
consent of the owner/agents to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   No public notice is required for the Zoning Administrator to approve a
renewable energy system.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 152.22 REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator’s review-application. The Zoning Administrator
shall review each application submitted to determine the completeness of the
application. The Zoning Administrator shall forward complete applications for
review and consideration of approval by the Building Inspector. Incomplete
applications shall be returned to the applicant with a list of the
deficiencies.
   (B)   Zoning Administrator review. The Zoning Administrator shall review the
proposed building permit application for a renewable energy system and shall
grant approval of the building permit application for a renewable energy system
after the Zoning Administrator is satisfied that the reasonably anticipated
detrimental impacts of a proposed renewable energy system shall be mitigated
and that all of the standards and requirements of this subchapter and other
applicable sections of this chapter shall be met. Signature of the Zoning
Administrator and Building Inspector together with the approved site plan and
aforementioned standards shall constitute approval of the building permit
application for a renewable energy system. If the Zoning Administrator denies
the building permit application, explicit and careful findings of fact shall be
enumerated for the record as to why the reasonably anticipated detrimental
impacts of a proposed renewable energy system could not substantially be
mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve
compliance with applicable standards. Approval of a building permit application
for a renewable energy system is an administrative decision.
   (C)   Planning Commission review. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to
bring any building permit application for a renewable energy system before the
Planning Commission if, in their opinion, the general public interests shall be
better served by review and approval of the Planning Commission. If the
Planning Commission is designated as the land use authority by the Zoning
Administrator the public notice, review, and approval procedures, and appeals
shall be according to the aforementioned Planning Commission’s procedures.
Approval of a renewable energy system permit is an administrative decision.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017)
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM STANDARDS
§ 152.35 SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS STANDARDS.
   Building permit application submitted to the city for a renewable energy
system under this section shall not be considered complete unless in addition
to the general procedures and standards set forth in §
152.20, it contains the following information, including but not limited to:
   (A)   Manufacturer’s specifications and recommended installation methods for
all major equipment, including wind collectors and the number of collectors to
be installed, mounting systems, and foundations for poles or racks;
   (B)   No more than one small wind energy system shall be permitted per lot
and shall only generate energy for use of a main building and/or accessory
buildings located on the same lot. This standard however is not intended to
prohibit the transfer of excess energy to the power grid;
   (C)   Setbacks for small wind energy systems shall be one time, plus three
feet the height of the wind structure with the blades being a part of the
structure as measured from the blade at the highest point;
   (D)   Maximum allowed height shall be 65 feet. Additional height
restrictions may be imposed if the small wind energy system is in any airport’s
fly zone;
   (E)   There shall be a minimum vertical blade clearance from the ground of
20 feet;
   (F)   Systems shall have an automatic system to prevent uncontrolled
rotation;
   (G)   Systems shall not cause a sound pressure level in excess of 60 dB or
in excess of five dB above the background noise, as measured to the nearest
property line. This level may be exceeded during short-term events such as
utility outages or severe wind storms;
   (H)   Systems shall not cause vibrations through the ground, which are
perceptible beyond the property line containing the wind tower;
   (I)   Systems shall be designed with a monopole and without guy-wires or
support structures;
   (J)   Systems shall have a nonreflective, neutral color surface;
   (K)   Systems shall not be artificially lighted or exceed the permitted
height that would require any type of lighting by the Federal Aviation
Administration; and/or
   (L)   Systems shall not cause shadow flicker upon any neighboring primary
occupied structure.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   Building permit application submitted to the city for a renewable energy
system under this section shall not be considered complete unless, in addition
to the general procedures and standards set in §
152.20, it contains the following information, including but not limited to:
   (A)   Manufacturer’s specifications and recommended installation methods for
all major equipment, including solar collectors, the number of collectors to be
installed, mounting systems, and foundations for poles or racks;
   (B)   No more than one solar energy system of each kind shall be permitted
per lot and shall only generate energy for use of a main building and/or
accessory buildings located on the same lot. This standard however is not
intended to prohibit the transfer of excess energy to the power grid;
   (C)   A description of the method for connecting the system to a building or
substation;
   (D)   A signed copy of the interconnection agreement with the local electric
utility or a written explanation outlining why an interconnection agreement is
not necessary; and/or
   (E)   Systems producing greater than 500 watts shall be mounted on a
permanent structure. Permanent structures shall include poles, foundations,
and/or racks.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR SYSTEMS.
   The following standards shall apply to roof-mounted solar energy systems.
   (A)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed by more than four
feet the maximum allowed building height in any zoning district.
   (B)   In addition to the structure setback, the collector surface and
mounting devices for roof-mounted solar systems shall not extend beyond the
exterior perimeter of the structure on which the system is mounted or built,
except for when such an extension is designed as an awning.
   (C)   The collector and racking for roof-mounted systems that have a greater
pitch than the roof surface shall be set back from all roof edges by at least
two feet.
   (D)   Exterior piping for roof-mounted solar hot water systems may extend
beyond the perimeter of the structure on side and rear yard exposures.
   (E)   Roof-mounted solar systems, excluding building-integrated systems,
shall not cover more than 80% of the south-facing or flat roof upon which the
collectors are mounted.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.38 POLE-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   The following standards shall apply to pole-mounted solar energy systems.
   (A)   Setbacks for pole-mounted solar systems shall be one time, plus one
foot the height of the pole structure with the collectors being a part of the
structure as measured from the collector at the highest point.
   (B)   Pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20 feet in height
when oriented at maximum tilt.
   (C)   The pole structure shall be designed with a monopole and without guy-
wires or support structures.
   (D)   Pole-mounted solar systems shall not cause shadow flicker upon any
neighboring primary occupied structure.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.39 GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   The following standards shall apply to ground-mounted solar energy systems.
   (A)   Setbacks for ground-mounted solar systems shall be one time, plus one
foot the height of the pole structure with the collectors being a part of the
structure as measured from the collector at the highest point.
   (B)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20 feet in height
when oriented at maximum tilt.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.40 WALL-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   The following standard shall apply to wall-mounted solar energy systems: In
residential zoning districts, wall-mounted solar energy systems shall cover no
more 25% of any exterior wall facing a front yard.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 PHOTOVOLTAIC SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   The following standards shall apply to photovoltaic solar energy systems.
   (A)   No grid-intertie photovoltaic solar energy system shall be installed
until documentation has been given to the Zoning Administrator that the owner
has notified the utility company of the customer’s intent to install an
interconnected customer-owned generator. Documentation may consist of an
interconnection agreement or a written explanation from the utility provider or
contractor outlining why an interconnection agreement is not necessary. Off-
grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   Photovoltaic solar energy system components must have an Underwriters
Laboratory (UL) listing and solar hot water systems must have a Solar Rating
and Certification Corporation (SRCC) rating.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 REFLECTING SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   Reflecting solar energy systems are not permitted.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   Commercial/industrial scale renewable energy systems are not permitted in
any zone.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 RIGHT TO MAINTAIN ACCESS TO RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCE.
   Existing renewable energy systems have a right to maintain access to the
source of renewable energy required by the system to operate as designed.
Neighboring property owner(s) shall not construct any building or other
structure that obscures or blocks the renewable energy source to the system.
Neighboring property owner(s) shall maintain vegetation so as to not impair
access to the renewable energy source.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be done in accordance with the process and
procedures established in the city’s zoning code. Violations are Class B
misdemeanors.
(Ord. 2017-002, passed 6-13-2017)
CHAPTER 153: GENERAL PLAN
Section
   
153.01   General Plan
§ 153.01 GENERAL PLAN.
   The city’s General Plan is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 2006-02, passed - - 2006; Ord. 2015-0001, passed 4-14-2015)
CHAPTER 154: FIRE DISTRICT
Section
   
154.01   Establishment of district
   
154.02   Description of district
   
154.03   Services provided to district
§ 154.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The City Council finds that public health, convenience, and necessity
of the city and its inhabitants require the services of the proposed district.
   (B)   The City Council acknowledges that the proposed name of this special
service district shall be the “Central Box Elder Fire Special Service
District.”
(Res. 2008-001, passed 1-2-2008)
§ 154.02 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The City Council acknowledges that the boundaries and service area of
the proposed district shall include Corinne City, Bear River City, Elwood City,
Deweyville City, Honeyville City, and portions of unincorporated Box Elder,
Utah, in and around the above communities, with the district more particularly
described as follows.
   (B)   Description of the fire special service district:
      (1)   Beginning at the northeast corner of section 17, T12N, R2W, thence
running south along the eastern section lines of sections 17, 20, 29, and 32 in
T12N, R2W, and sections 5, 8, 17, and 20 in T11N, R2W, to the east quarter
corner of section 20, T11N, R2W;
      (2)   Thence east to the center of section 21, T11N, R2W, south to the
south quarter corner of said section, east to the southwest corner of the
southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of said section;
      (3)   Thence south to the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of
the southeast quarter of section 4, T10, R2W, east to the southeast corner of
said section;
      (4)   Thence south to the southeast corner of section 9, T10N, R2W;
      (5)   Thence east to the north quarter corner of section 15, T10N, R2W,
south to the center of said section, east to the east quarter corner of said
section;
      (6)   Thence south to the east quarter corner of section 22, T10N, R2W;
      (7)   Thence east to the center of section 23, T10N, R2W, south to the
south quarter corner of said section, east to the southeast corner of said
section;
      (8)   Thence south to the southeast corner of section 26, T10N, R2W;
      (9)   Thence east to the north quarter corner of section 36, T10N, R2W,
south to the southeast corner of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter
of said section;
      (10)   Thence west to the right-of-way line of Interstate 15;
      (11)   Thence southerly along said right-of-way to the northeast corner
of section 16, T9N, R2W;
      (12)   Thence west along the south section lines of sections 7, 8, and 9
in T9N, R2W, and sections 11 and 12 in T9N, R3W, to the south quarter corner of
section 11, T9N, R3W;
      (13)   Thence south to the Wildlife Refuge Road; thence west to the east
shoreline of Homestead Bay;
      (14)   Thence north to the south quarter corner of section 16, T9N, R3W,
west to the southwest corner of said section, north to the west quarter corner
of said section;
      (15)   Thence northwesterly to the southeast corner of section 7, T9N,
R3W, northwest to the northwest corner of said section;
      (16)   Thence north along the west section lines of section 6 in T9N,
R3W, and section 31 in T10N, R3W to the southeast corner of section 25, T10N,
R4W, west to the southwest corner of said section;
      (17)   Thence northwest to the southeast corner of section 22, T10N, R4W,
west to the southwest corner of said section;
      (18)   Thence north along the west section lines of sections 22 and 15 in
T10N, R4W, to the northwest corner of section 15, T10N, R4W;
      (19)   Thence east along the north section lines of sections 10, 11, and
12 in T10N, R4W, and sections 7, 8 and 9 in T10N, R3W, to the southwest corner
of section 10, T10N, R3W;
      (20)   Thence north along the west section lines of sections 3 and 10 in
T10N, R3W, and sections 15, 22, 27, and 34 in T11N, R3W, to the southwest
corner of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section 15, T11N,
R3W, east to the southeast corner of the northeast quarter of the northwest
quarter of said section, north to the north quarter corner of said section,
east to the northeast corner of said section;
      (21)   Thence north to the east quarter corner of section 10, T11N, R3W;
      (22)   Thence east to the east quarter corner of section 12, T11N, R3W;
      (23)   Thence northeasterly to the southeast corner of section 6, T11N,
R2W; and
      (24)   Thence north along the west section lines of section 5 in T11N,
R2W, and sections 17, 20, 29, and 32 in T12N, R2W, to the northwest corner of
section 17, T12N, R2W, thence east to the point of beginning.
(Res. 2008-001, passed 1-2-2008)
§ 154.03 SERVICES PROVIDED TO DISTRICT.
   The city acknowledges the services to be provided by the district shall be
fire protection, emergency medical, and ambulance.
(Res. 2008-001, passed 1-2-2008)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Applicability
   
155.004   Minimum requirements
   
155.005   Conflict
   
155.006   Prohibitions
   
155.007   General Plan mandate
   
155.008   Effect on previous titles and maps
   
155.009   Temporary regulations
   
155.010   Pending ordinance amendments
   
155.011   State and federal property
   
155.012   Property owned by other governmental units
   
155.013   Building permits required
   
155.014   Certificate of occupancy required
   
155.015   Site plan approval required
   
155.016   Inspection
   
155.017   Completion of requirement improvements
   
155.018   Enforcement
   
155.019   Nuisance and abatement
   
155.020   Licensing
   
155.021   Territory annexed to the city
   
155.022   Fees
   
155.023   Definitions and purpose
Noticing Requirements
   
155.035   Notice required
   
155.036   Applicant notice
   
155.037   Notice of intent to prepare a General Plan or comprehensive General
Plan amendments
   
155.038   Notice of public hearings and public meetings to consider General
Plan or modifications
   
155.039   Notice of public hearings and public meetings on adoption or
modification of land use ordinance
   
155.040   Third party notice
   
155.041   Notice for a proposed multiple-unit residential, commercial, or
industrial development
   
155.042   Hearing and notice for proposal to vacate, alter, or amend a public
street or right-of-way
   
155.043   Notice challenge
Administrations
   
155.055   Land use authority
   
155.056   Appeal Authority
   
155.057   Administration of city’s land use ordinance
Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations
   
155.070   Applicability
   
155.071   Lots in separate ownership
   
155.072   Every dwelling to be on a “lot”
   
155.073   Additional use regulations
   
155.074   Additional main building regulations
   
155.075   Additional yard regulations
   
155.076   Additional height regulations
   
155.077   Animals and fowl
   
155.078   Building regulations
   
155.079   Regulations governing fences and walls
   
155.080   Lighting
   
155.081   Private park, playground, or recreational area
   
155.082   Public utility substation
   
155.083   Swimming pool; family
   
155.084   Businesses excluding persons under age 18, prohibited
   
155.085   Clear view of intersecting streets
   
155.086   Uses not listed
   
155.087   Zero side yards
   
155.088   Flag lots requirements
Uses
   
155.100   Uses
   
155.101   Prohibited uses
   
155.102   Application required
   
155.103   Permitted uses
   
155.104   Standards and criteria for permitted use
   
155.105   Conditional uses
   
155.106   Standards and criteria for conditional use
   
155.107   Revocation or modification of conditional use permit
   
155.108   Conditional use permit to run with the land
   
155.109   Temporary uses
   
155.110   Standards and criteria for temporary uses
   
155.111   Appeals of permitted use, conditional use, or temporary use decision
   
155.112   Nonconforming use, lot, or structure
   
155.113   Standards and criteria for nonconforming use, lot, or structure
Schedule of Uses
   
155.125   Permitted and conditional uses by zones
   
155.126   Schedule of uses by zones
   
155.127   Additional information regarding schedule of uses
Zoning Districts
   
155.140   Establishment of zones
   
155.141   Boundaries of zones
   
155.142   Boundaries of Overlay Zones
   
155.143   Rules applicable where boundaries uncertain
Agricultural District
   
155.155   Purpose
   
155.156   Schedule of uses
   
155.157   Site development standards
   
155.158   Vehicular circulation and parking
Residential District
   
155.170   Purpose
   
155.171   Schedule of uses
   
155.172   Site development standards
   
155.173   Vehicular circulation and parking
   
155.174   Sign regulations
   
155.175   RD-1 Zone
   
155.176   RD-2 Zone
Commercial District
   
155.185   Purpose
   
155.186   Schedule of uses
   
155.187   Height, setback, and coverage standards
   
155.188   Special regulations
   
155.189   Site development standards
   
155.190   Vehicular circulation and parking
   
155.191   Sign regulations
   
155.192   Site plan requirements
Industrial/Manufacturing District
   
155.205   Purpose
   
155.206   Schedule of uses
   
155.207   Area, width, frontage, yard, and coverage standards
   
155.208   Site development standards
   
155.209   Vehicular circulation and parking
   
155.210   Sign regulations
Sensitive Area Overlay Zone
   
155.225   Purpose
   
155.226   Sensitive areas defined
   
155.227   Sensitive areas overlay map
   
155.228   All developments to be considered a conditional use in sensitive
areas
   
155.229   Review of proposed development in sensitive areas
   
155.230   Development standards by sensitive area
   
155.231   Engineering geotechnical report
   
155.232   Disclosure of a natural hazard by an engineering geotechnical report
Design Guidelines
   
155.245   Purpose
   
155.246   Application and review
   
155.247   Exceptions
   
155.248   Planning Commission approval
   
155.249   Considerations in review of applications
   
155.250   Conditions
   
155.251   Findings and decision
   
155.252   Notification of approval or denial
   
155.253   Time limitations on approval
   
155.254   Transfer of approval upon change in use
   
155.255   Conformance to approval
   
155.256   Modification
Planned Unit Development
   
155.270   Purpose and intent
   
155.271   Use regulations
   
155.272   Area regulations
   
155.273   General regulations
   
155.274   Submission of application
   
155.275   Planning Commission consideration
   
155.276   Planning Commission action
   
155.277   City Council action
   
155.278   Final site plan approval
   
155.279   Building permit issuance
   
155.280   Time limit
   
155.281   Easement over common areas
Off-Street Parking
   
155.295   Purpose
   
155.296   General provisions for off-street parking and loading
   
155.297   Site, access, and lighting plan required
   
155.298   Off-street parking schedules
   
155.299   Reduction of parking requirement
   
155.300   Maximum number of parking spaces
   
155.301   Design standards for off-street parking and loading spaces
   
155.302   Shared parking
   
155.303   Off-site parking
   
155.304   Parking and parking lot access
   
155.305   Stacking lanes, number of vehicles
   
155.306   Parking lot layout
   
155.307   Compact car design
   
155.308   Parking for persons with a disability
   
155.309   Landscaping and screening
   
155.310   Lighting
   
155.311   Surfacing
   
155.312   Grading
   
155.313   Use of required parking spaces
   
155.314   Storage
   
155.315   Off-street loading space design standards
Sign Regulations
   
155.330   Purpose
   
155.331   Definitions
   
155.332   Permit required
   
155.333   Enforcement
   
155.334   Planning Commission review
   
155.335   Required drawings and information
   
155.336   Measurement of signs
   
155.337   Prohibited signs
   
155.338   Clear view of intersecting streets
   
155.339   Change of business name
   
155.340   Specific sign regulations
   
155.341   Sign requirements by zoning district
Natural Resource Extraction
   
155.355   Purpose
   
155.356   Excavation condition use permit required
   
155.357   Information required with conditional use permit application
   
155.358   Operational requirements
   
155.359   Revocation or modification of a conditional use permit
   
155.360   Transfer to successor operator
   
155.361   Filing of an annual progress report
   
155.362   Rehabilitation requirements
   
155.363   Provision of surety
   
155.364   Operation reduction in distance permitted
   
155.365   Inspection and stop work orders
Residential Facilities for Elderly Persons and Persons with a Disability
   
155.380   Purpose
   
155.381   Scope
   
155.382   Permitted uses
   
155.383   Development standards
   
155.384   Reasonable accommodation required
Home Occupation Regulations
   
155.395   Purpose
   
155.396   Minor home occupation standards
   
155.397   Major home occupation standards
Sexually-Oriented Business
   
155.410   Purpose
   
155.411   Location of businesses - restrictions
   
155.412   Signs
   
155.413   Definitions
Review of Constitutional Taking Issues
   
155.425   Policy considerations
   
155.426   Review of final city decision - procedures
   
155.427   Reviewing guidelines
   
155.428   Results of review
Zoning Administration and Enforcement
   
155.440   Administration and enforcement
   
155.441   Zoning and building permits
   
155.442   Occupancy permit
   
155.443   Inspection
   
155.444   Site plan required
   
155.445   Time limit
   
155.446   Violations
Master Planned Community District
   
155.460   Purpose
   
155.461   Development agreement
   
155.462   Minimum size
   
155.463   Open space required
   
155.464   Fee in lieu of open space
   
155.465   Conceptual site plan
   
155.466   Site plan
   
155.467   Subdivision requirements
   
155.468   Phase development
   
155.469   Planning Commission recommendation
   
155.470   Development standards
   
155.471   Modification by City Council
   
155.472   No guarantee of approval
   
155.473   Findings required for approval
   
155.474   Designation
   
155.475   Permit approval
   
155.476   Amendments to plan and development agreement
   
155.477   Sunset provision
   
155.478   Guarantees for subdivision improvements
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
    This zoning chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Code of the City of
Elwood”.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   This zoning code is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the
health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the city, state, including, amongst other things, the
lessening of congestion on the streets or roads, securing safety from fire and
other danger, providing adequate light and air, the classification of land uses
and distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the tax
base, securing economy in governmental expenditures, foster the commercial,
industrial, and agricultural growth, and the protection of both urban and
nonurban development of the city.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.003 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of the zoning code apply to all private and public
development within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.004 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter represent the minimum requirements necessary
to advance its stated purposes. Unless otherwise specified within the code, it
does not preclude adding standards and requirements necessary to achieve the
policies of the General Plan, the purposes of this chapter, or protect the
public health, safety, peace, morals, and general welfare.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.005 CONFLICT.
   This chapter shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements, or other chapters or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.006 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No lot may be sold, transferred, financed, or otherwise exchanged
unless and until it has been created in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter and stated law.
   (B)   No land, building, or structure may be developed, used, occupied,
erected, moved, or altered without conformance with the provisions of this
chapter and state law.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.007 GENERAL PLAN MANDATE.
   Land development shall be consistent with the General Plan. The city’s
administration and its departments shall carry out the mandate of the General
Plan when reviewing project proposals, and development plans.
   (A)   Planning Commission implementation. The Planning Commission shall not
approve any project for which it cannot substantiate a finding that the project
is consistent with the goals, policies, and implementation programs of the
General Plan.
   (B)   Appeal Authority implementation. The Appeal Authority shall not
approve any variance request for which it cannot substantiate a finding that
the project is consistent with the goals, policies and implementation programs
of the General Plan.
   (C)   Relationship of the General Plan to the land use ordinance. The
General Plan is the adopted policies of the City Council. The General Plan
represents a lengthy public participation process and incorporates long-range
goals, identified polices, and an implementation program. The content of the
General Plan may be cited as a basis for making decisions or as a part of the
finding to support actions initiated by this land use ordinance. The General
Plan is adopted as a part of this code by reference. The General Plan provides
the policies that enable the specific regulations of the land use ordinance to
be carried out. Implementation measures in the General Plan provide direction
for specific measures within the land use ordinance. When there is a conflict
between the General Plan and the land use ordinance, if the General Plan
provides precise development standards, the General Plan is to be used. If the
General Plan provides policy language and no specific development standards,
the land use ordinance’s specific measures are to prevail.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.008 EFFECT ON PREVIOUS TITLES AND MAPS.
   The existing titles covering zoning, in their entirety, and including the
maps heretofore adopted and made a part of said titles are hereby superseded
and amended to read as set forth herein; provided, however, that this chapter
shall be deemed a continuation of previous titles and not a new enactment,
insofar as the substance of revisions of previous titles is included in this
chapter, whether in the same or in different language; and this chapter shall
be so interpreted upon all questions of construction relating to tenure of
officers and boards established by previous titles and to questions of
conforming or nonconforming uses and buildings and structures, and to questions
as to the dates upon which such uses, buildings, or structures became
conforming or nonconforming.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.009 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may, without a public hearing, enact ordinances
establishing temporary zoning regulations for any part or all of the area
within the city if:
      (1)   The legislative body makes a finding of compelling, countervailing
public interest; or
      (2)   The area is unzoned.
   (B)   Temporary zoning regulations may prohibit, restrict, or regulate the
erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or
structure or subdivision approval.
   (C)   A temporary zoning regulation may not impose an impact fee or other
financial requirement on building or development.
   (D)   The City Council may, without a public hearing, enact an ordinance
establishing temporary zoning regulations prohibiting construction, subdivision
approval and other development activities within an area that is the subject of
an environmental impact statement or a major investment study examining the
area as a proposed highway or transportation corridor. Said temporary
regulations may be renewed at the request of the state’s Transportation
Commission for up to two additional six-month periods by an ordinance enacted
prior to the expiration of the previous temporary regulation, provided that
such regulations shall be in effect only as long as the environmental impact
statement or major investment study is in progress.
   (E)   Temporary zoning regulations shall not exceed six months in duration.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.010 PENDING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   When a proposed amendment to the zoning map or text of this title is
pending, a person who thereafter files an application which may be affected by
the proposed amendment shall not be entitled to rely on the existing zoning map
or text which may be amended.
      (1)   A proposed zoning map or text amendment shall be deemed “pending”
when the amendment proposal first appears on a Planning Commission or City
Council agenda, as the case may be, which has been noticed as required in this
chapter.
      (2)   An application shall be deemed “filed” when all materials required
for the application, as set forth in this chapter, have been submitted.
         (a)   If within one year after an application has been filed the
applicant has not taken substantial action to pursue an approval, the
application shall expire and any vested rights thereunder shall terminate.
         (b)   For the purpose of this subchapter, “substantial action” means
action taken in good faith to diligently pursue any matter necessary to obtain
final approval of the application.
   (B)   An application affected by a pending amendment to the zoning map or
text of this chapter shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The application shall not be acted upon until six months from the
date when the pending amendment to the zoning map or text of this chapter was
first noticed on a Planning Commission or City Council agenda, as the case may
be, unless:
         (a)   The applicant voluntarily agrees to amend his, her, or their
application to conform to the requirements of the proposed amendment; or
         (b)   The proposed amendment is sooner enacted or defeated, as the
case may be.
      (2)   If a pending amendment to the zoning map or text of this chapter is
enacted within six months after being noticed on a Planning Commission or City
Council agenda, as the case may be, an affected application which was filed
while the amendment was pending shall conform to the enacted amendment; and/or
      (3)   If a pending amendment to the zoning map or text of this chapter is
not enacted within six months after being noticed on a Planning Commission or
City Council agenda, as the case may be.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.011 STATE AND FEDERAL PROPERTY.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, and only to the extent required by UCA §
10-9a-304, nothing contained herein adopted pursuant to UCA Part 3, Title 10,
Ch.9a shall be construed as giving the Planning Commission or the City Council
jurisdiction over properties owned by the state or the United States
government.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.012 PROPERTY OWNED BY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL UNITS.
   Each county, municipality, school district, charter school, special
district, and political subdivision of the state shall conform to any
applicable land use ordinance of the city installing, constructing, operating,
or otherwise using any area, land, or building situated within the city only to
the extent required by UCA § 10-9a-305.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.013 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   The construction, alteration, repair, removal or occupancy of any structure
or of any part thereof, as provided or as restricted, in this zoning code shall
not be commenced or proceeded with except after the issuance of written permit
for the same by the city staff; provided that no permit shall be necessary
where the erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration is minor in
character as defined herein, or as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.014 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   No land shall be used or occupied and no building hereafter structurally
altered or erected, shall be used or changed in use until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the city staff stating that the building or
structure or the proposed use thereof, or the use of land, complies with the
provisions of this zoning code. A like certificate shall be issued for the
purpose of maintaining, renewing, changing, or extending a nonconforming use. A
certificate of occupancy either for the whole or a part of a building or
structure shall be applied for coincidentally with the application for a
building permit, and shall be issued within ten days after the erection or
structural alteration of such building or structure, or part thereof, shall
have been completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.015 SITE PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any use, building or
construction within the city, except for single family and two-family dwellings
and their accessory buildings, approval of a site plan by the Planning
Commission is required. In considering any site plan, the Planning Commission
may impose reasonable requirements to assure among other things, the safety and
convenience of traffic movement both within the area covered and in relation to
access streets, a harmonious relationship among the buildings and uses, a
harmonious relationship between such area and buildings of adjacent
neighborhoods, and the preservation of future road locations.
   (B)   In furthering the above objectives the Planning Commission shall
review and may require certain improvements or design changes to be implemented
by the developer as part of his, her, or their construction related but not
limited to the following considerations which shall be shown on a site plan,
drawn to scale as follows:
      (1)   Dimensions and orientation of the parcel;
      (2)   Locations of buildings and structures, both existing and proposed;
      (3)   Location and layout of off-street parking and loading facilities;
      (4)   Location and size of points of entry and exit, in accordance with
§§
155.295 through
155.315 and internal vehicle circulation patterns, type of barrier or curb and
gutter used on front property lines;
      (5)   The location and design of walls and fences and indication of their
height and materials of their construction;
      (6)   The height of existing and proposed buildings and structures;
      (7)   The proposed use of building(s) shown on the plot plan;
      (8)   Location of exterior existing and proposed lighting standards and
devices;
      (9)   The location and height of any overhead power and communication and
transmission lines and all utility easements that may affect subject property;
      (10)   Location and size of exterior, existing and proposed signs and
outdoor advertising in accordance with §§
155.330 through
155.341;
      (11)   Meaningful landscaping and open space on the site of as per §§
155.185 through
155.192 and §§
155.205 through
155.210. A landscape plan shall identify landscaping details such as shrubs,
trees, and other plant material; and
      (12)   Where an attachment or minor addition of 1,000 square feet or less
to an existing building or structure is proposed, the site plan shall indicate
the relationship of said proposal to the existing development but at the
discretion of the city staff need not include other data required in divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(11) above, unless it drastically changes any of the items
required.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any use, building, or
construction within the city for any single family and two-family dwellings and
their accessory buildings approval of a site plan by the Zoning Administrator
is required. In considering any site plan, the Zoning Administrator may impose
reasonable requirements to assure, among other things, the safety and
convenience of traffic movement both within the area covered and in relation to
access streets, a harmonious relationship among the buildings and uses, a
harmonious relationship between such area and buildings of adjacent
neighborhoods, and the preservation of future road locations. In furthering the
above objectives, the Zoning Administrator shall review and may require certain
improvements or design changes to be implemented by the developer as part of
his, her, or their construction related but not limited to the considerations
outlined in division (B) above, which shall be shown on a site plan, drawn to
scale.
   (D)   The city staff shall ensure that development is in compliance with the
site plan and all other requirements imposed by the Planning Commission or the
Zoning Administrator, depending on the case. Upon approval of the site plan by
the Planning Commission or the Zoning Administrator, depending on the case, no
alterations shall be made without first obtaining approval from the Planning
Commission or the Zoning Administrator, whichever gave the original approval.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2023-005, passed 10-10-2023) Penalty, see
§
155.999
§ 155.016 INSPECTION.
   The city staff is authorized to inspect or to have inspected all buildings
and structures in the course of their construction, modification or repair, and
to inspect land uses to determine compliance with zoning code provisions. The
city staff or any authorized employee of the city shall use the right to enter
any building for the purpose of determining the use, or to enter premises for
the purpose of determining compliance with the said chapter, provided that such
right of entry is to be used only at reasonable hours. In no case shall entry
be made to any occupied building in the absence of an owner or tenant thereof
without written permission of an owner, or written order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.017 COMPLETION OF REQUIREMENT IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   For uses subject to §§
155.100 through
155.113 or
155.245 through
155.256 any improvements required under this chapter, including but not limited
to, curb, gutter, sidewalk, fences, landscaping, streets, parking, and flood
control requirements shall be satisfactorily installed prior to the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy by the city, or if a certificate of occupancy is not
required, prior to the issuance of a business license for the land being
developed. In lieu of actual completion of such improvements prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy or business license, a developer may
file with the City Council a cash bond, surety bond, letter of credit, or
escrow agreement in an amount specified by the City Engineer to ensure
completion of such improvements within one year. The bond may be extended by
the City Council upon request. Upon completion of the improvements for which a
bond or escrow agreement has been filed, the developer shall call for
inspections of the improvements by the city staff. Upon approval of the City
Council following a recommendation of the Planning Commission, and in lieu of
the bond requirements of this subchapter, the builder or developer may be
permitted to execute an agreement in a form acceptable to the City Attorney’s
office, deferring any of the required improvements.
   (B)   Inspection shall be made within a reasonable time upon request. If the
inspection shows the city standards and specifications have been met in the
completion of such improvements, the bond or agreement shall be released within
a reasonable time from the time of inspection. If the bond agreement is not
released, refusal to release and the reasons therefore shall be given to the
developer in writing within a reasonable time from the time of the inspection.
The bond may be partially released based upon the percentage of completion of
the required improvements.
   (C)   If the City Council determines that the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy or a business license prior to completion of any required
improvements may be injurious to the health, safety, or welfare of the city or
its inhabitants, it may refuse to accept a bond or deferral agreement in lieu
of actual completion of required improvements or may limit the bond or
agreement to a period of less than one year.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.018 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city staff is authorized as the enforcing officer for this
chapter, and shall enforce all provisions, entering actions in court if
necessary, and his, her, or their failure to do so shall not legalize any
violations of such provisions.
   (B)   The governing body may, by resolution or title, from time to time
entrust administration of this chapter, in whole or in part, to another officer
of the local jurisdiction, without amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.019 NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any building or structure erected, constructed, altered, enlarged,
converted, moved, or maintained contrary to provisions of this chapter, and any
use of land, building or premises established, conducted, or maintained
contrary to provisions of this chapter shall be, and the same hereby is,
declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance, and the local attorney shall,
upon request of the governing body, at once commence action or proceedings for
abatement and removal of enjoinment thereof in a manner provided by law, and
take other steps and apply to such courts as may have jurisdiction to grant
such relief as will abate and remove such building or structure, and restrain
or enjoin any person, firm, or corporation from erecting, building,
maintaining, or using said building, structure, or property contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.020 LICENSING.
   All departments, officials and public employees of the local jurisdiction
which are vested with duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall
conform to the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit or license
for uses, buildings, or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter and any such permit or license, if issued in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter, shall be null and void.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.021 TERRITORY ANNEXED TO THE CITY.
   At the time of the annexation of new territory to the city, the City Council
with the recommendation of the Planning Commission shall classify such
territory for zoning purposes according to the zones established by the zoning
code.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.022 FEES.
   Fees may be charged applicants for building, occupancy, and conditional use
permits, design review and planned unit development approval, Planning
Commission and Board of Adjustment hearings, and such other services as are
required by this chapter to be performed by public officers or agencies. Such
fees shall be established by the legislative body and be in amounts reasonably
needed to defray costs to the public.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.023 DEFINITIONS AND PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Meanings
shall apply to the singular or plural and to any tense of a verb. Definitions
of pertinent terms provided in the state code annotated are adopted as part of
this chapter. Unless the context requires otherwise, the following definitions
shall be used in the interpretation and construction of this chapter. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number shall include
the plural, and the plural the singular; the word BUILDING shall include the
word STRUCTURE; the words USED or OCCUPIED shall include arranged, designed,
constructed, altered, converted, rented, leased, or intended to be used or
occupied; the word SHALL is mandatory and not directory, and the word MAY is
permissive; the word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual; the word
LOT includes the words plot, or parcel. Words used in this chapter but not
defined herein shall have the meaning as defined in any other chapter adopted
by the local jurisdiction.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building customarily incidental to the principal use
or building, devoted exclusively to the principal use, and located on the same
lot with such principal use or building.
   AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY. An industrial activity involving the processing,
cleaning, packing or storage of the results from agricultural production.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. The commercial production of agriculture products.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS. Animal or plant or a product, including any food or
drink that is wholly or partly derived from an animal or plant, and includes
all after acquired agricultural products of the producer, or any proceeds
thereof.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare that is less than 26 feet wide.
   ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING. The manufacturing process to slaughter livestock in
preparation to be processed (cut and divided) and packaged.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground and having at least one-half its height
above the average level of the adjoining ground. A BASEMENT shall be counted as
a story, for purposes of height measurement.
   BUILDING. Any structure other than a boundary wall or fence.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building or a portion of the main
building on a lot, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the
main or principal building.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade elevation to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a.mansard
roof, or to a point midway between the lowest part of the eaves or cornice and
ridge of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is located.
   BUILDING, PUBLIC. A building owned and operated or owned and intended to be
operated by a public agency of the United States of America, of the state, or
any of its political subdivisions.
   CARPORT, PRIVATE. A space not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purpose of this chapter, a CARPORT shall be subject to all of the regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
   CAR WASH, LAUNDRY TYPE. A structure or portion thereof containing facilities
for washing passenger automobiles, using production line methods, but not
limited to, chain conveyor, movable or revolving cleaning brushes, blower,
steam-cleaning, or similar mechanical devices.
   CAR WASH, MANUAL SPRAY. A structure or portion thereof containing facilities
for washing passenger automobiles, limited to using only hand-operated manual
spray cleaning equipment and techniques.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half its height below the average level
of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR shall not be counted as a story for the
purpose of height measurement.
   CLUSTER SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of land in which the areas and widths of
residential lots are reduced below the minimum lot areas and lot width
requirements of the zone in which the subdivision is located and where
equivalent common open space areas are provided to compensate for such lot
reduction.
   CORRAL. An enclosure for animals, other than a building. This definition
does not include agricultural pastureland.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than yard, on the same lot with a
building or buildings, which is bounded on two or more sides by the walls of
such building or buildings.
   COVERAGE, LOT. The percent of the lot area covered by the main and accessory
buildings.
   DAIRY. A commercial establishment for the manufacture, processing, or sale
of dairy products.
   DAY CARE CENTER. Any building or structure, other than an occupied
residence, furnishing care, supervision, and guidance for three or more
children unaccompanied by parent or guardian for periods of less than 24 hours
per day, or, an occupied residence which furnishes care, supervision, and
guidance for six or more children unaccompanied by parent or guardian for
periods of less than 24 hours per day. “Occupied residence” shall refer to
being used as a residence by a family. The term DAY CARE CENTER is inclusive of
kindergartens, preschools, nursery schools, and all other similar facilities
specializing in the education and/or care of children prior to their entrance
into the first grade, other than facilities owned and/or operated by the public
school system.
   DISABLED PERSON. A person who has a severe, chronic disability attributable
to a mental or physical impairment, or to a combination of mental and physical
impairments which is likely to continue indefinitely or which result in a
functional limitation in three or more of the following areas of major life
activity: self care, receptive and expressive language, learning, mobility,
self-direction, capacity for independent living, economic self-sufficiency, and
who requires a combination or sequence of special interdisciplinary or generic
care or treatment.
   DRIVEWAY APPROACH. An approved access point for egress/ingress to a
residential lot for which only one access point is permitted. Exception:
circular driveways are allowed with the approval of the Planning Commission.
   DRY CLEANER. An establishment which has as its sole purpose the cleansing of
fabrics with substantially non-innocuous organic solvents. Laundry
establishments with self service, coin-operated dry-cleaning machines shall not
be classified as a DRY CLEANER.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used as the living
quarters for one or more families.
   DWELLING, CONDOMINIUM. A real estate condominium project where ownership of
a single unit in a multi unit project, together with an undivided interest in
common in the common areas and facilities of the property, is transferred, a
plan or project whereby four or more apartments, rooms, office spaces, or other
existing and proposed apartments or commercial or industrial buildings or
structures are separately offered or proposed to be offered for sale and
meeting all requirements of the Condominium Ownership Act of the state, being
UCA § 57-8-1, and as amended. Structures shall conform with all area, yard,
frontage, and height regulations of the zone district in which they are
located.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
three or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY TOWNHOUSE. A building built directly against an
adjoining building without an open space between, and containing a one-family
dwelling unit extending from basement to roof. Each single-family attached
dwelling unit shall have a front and rear entrance. Each group of single-family
attached dwellings shall be considered one structure, for purposes of front,
rear and side yard requirements.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families, the structure having only two dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT.
      (1)   One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment, hotel, or apartment
hotel designed for or occupied by one family for living, sleeping, and eating
purposes.
      (2)   A DWELLING UNIT may contain more than one set of kitchen
facilities, whether temporary or permanent provided they are used only by
members of the family occupying the dwelling unit or their nonpaying guests. A
DWELLING UNIT may include up to two persons per unit to whom rooms are rented
in addition to a family related by blood, marriage, or adoption, but if the
number of such additional persons exceeds two or if they use or are furnished
separate cooking facilities, whether temporary or permanent, such additional
persons shall be considered a separate DWELLING UNIT.
   DWELLING UNIT, BACHELOR OR BACHELORETTE. A dwelling unit designed or used to
accommodate five or more unrelated persons. Each unit may or may not include
cooking facilities.
   DWELLING UNIT, BOARDING HOUSE. A building with not more than five guest
rooms where, for compensation, meals are provided for at least five but not
more than 15 persons.
   DWELLING UNIT, FRATERNITY/SORORITY HOUSE. A building occupied by and
maintained exclusively for students affiliated with an academic or professional
college or university or other recognized institution of higher learning, and
when acknowledged by such institution.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A public elementary or secondary school, seminary,
parochial school, or private educational institution having a curriculum
similar to that ordinarily given in grades 1 through 12 in the public school
system. The term EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION for the purpose of this chapter does
not include post-high school educational facilities.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption plus
domestic servants employed for service on the premises, or a group of bachelor
or bachelorettes of not more than four persons who need not be so related
living together as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit.
   FENCE. A tangible barrier or obstruction of any material, with the purpose
or intent or having the effect of preventing passage or view across the fence
line. This includes hedges and walls.
   FIELD FARMING. The tilling, planting, and production of crops in an open
field environment.
   FLAG LOT. A flag or L-shaped lot consisting of a staff portion contiguous
with the flag portion, the staff portion having frontage on a dedicated street.
   FLOODPLAIN. Land adjacent to a body of water which has been or may be
hereafter covered by flood water as delineated on the flood hazard boundary map
by the Federal Insurance Administration, H.U.D.
   FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE. Boundaries of the base flood as identified by the
Federal Insurance Administration, H.U.D. as set forth on the flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM). The FLOODPLAIN ZONE is designed to overlay or be
superimposed over existing zoning within the defined floodplain. Within such an
OVERLAY ZONE, the existing zone remains effective with the additional
conditions superimposed by the FLOODPLAIN ZONE.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of a
building and its accessory buildings on the same lot, excluding cellar and
basement floor areas not devoted to residential use, but including the area of
roofed terraces. All dimensions shall be measured from the exterior faces of
the exterior walls.
   FLOOR-LOT AREA RATIO. The total floor area of a building divided by the area
of the lot on which it is located.
   FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of the street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way,
waterway, end of dead-end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured
along the street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary
of the FRONTAGE of the side of the street which it intercepts.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An enclosed space or accessory building for the storage of
one or more motor vehicles, provided that no business, occupation, or service
is conducted for profit therein, nor space therein for more than one car is
leased to a nonresident of the premises. A GARAGE shall be considered part of a
dwelling if the garage and dwelling have a roof or wall in common and are
connected structurally.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling, or
storing motor-driven vehicles.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface or the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of those buildings more than five feet from a street line.
For buildings closer than five feet to a street line, the GRADE is the sidewalk
elevation at the center of the building. If there is more than one street, an
average sidewalk elevation is to be used. If there is no sidewalk, the City
Engineer may establish the GRADE.
   GRAZING AND PASTURING. A method of animal husbandry whereby domestic
livestock are allowed outdoors to roam around and consume wild vegetations.
   GUEST HOUSE. A separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more
main dwelling structures and used for housing of guests or servants and not
rented, leased, or sold separate from the rental, lease, or sale of the main
dwelling.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The use of a portion of a dwelling as an office, studio, or
workroom for small occupations which are customarily conducted in the home and
which are clearly incidental and accessory to the primary use of the dwelling
for living purposes, and which also meet all the conditions and requirements of
§§
155.245 through
155.256.
      (1)   The occupation is limited to members of the family who reside on
the premises.
      (2)   The occupation shall not require interior or exterior alterations.
      (3)   The occupation shall not include the sale of commodities which are
not produced on the premises.
      (4)   The occupation shall not use any accessory building, yards, or any
space outside of the main building not normally associated with residential
use.
      (5)   The occupation may include child day care of not more than five
children.
      (6)   The occupation shall include the use of not more than 10% of the
ground floor area of the home.
      (7)   The occupation shall provide a part-time service, consultation, or
emergency treatment but is not for the general practice of a profession,
business, trade, or general service on a full-time employment basis.
      (8)   The occupation must be licensed by the city.
   HORTICULTURE. The cultivation of plants in gardens or greenhouses, as
opposed to the field-scale production of crops characteristic of agriculture.
   HOTEL. A building designed for or occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of 16 or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged, with
or without meals.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept
for company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats, or canaries, but not including a
sufficient number of dogs or cats to constitute a kennel, as defined in this
zoning code.
   JUNKYARD. The use of any lot, portion of a lot, or tract of land for the
storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap
materials, or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of automobiles,
or other vehicles, or machinery or parts thereof, provided that this definition
shall not be deemed to include such uses which are clearly accessory and
incidental to any agricultural use permitted in the district.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any place where three or more dogs and/or cats older
than six months are kept, and of which a fee is charged, or paid, for the
primary purpose of sale, boarding, care, or breeding.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE. Any place where three or more dogs and/or cats older than
six months are kept for businesses whose main purpose is other than that of
housing animals as defined within “Kennel, Commercial.” This may include
housing of dogs used on the same property for sportsmanship purposes (e.g.,
hunting club dogs) as well as housing of dogs or cats used in pet therapy.
   KINDERGARTEN. A school or class for children of the four to six age group.
   LAUNDROMAT, SELF-SERVICE, COMMERCIAL. A self-service laundry establishment
where clothes are cleansed in a coin-operated machine. This may include self-
service, coin-operated dry cleaning machines.
   LAUNDROMAT, LARGE-SCALE, INDUSTRIAL. A large-scale laundry establishment
where clothes are cleansed in machines not operated by the customer. This may
include dry cleaning machines.
   LAND USE APPLICATION. An application required by the city’s land use
ordinances.
   LAND USE AUTHORITY. A person, board, commission, agency, or other body
designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land use application.
   LAND USE ORDINANCE. A planning, zoning, development, or subdivision
ordinance of the city, but does not include the General Plan.
   LAND USE PERMIT. A permit issued by a Land Use Authority.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Elwood City Council.
   LICENSED FAMILY GROUP CHILDCARE PROVIDER. A childcare provider who cares for
nine to 16 children unrelated to the licensee for less than 24 hours a day with
a regularly scheduled, ongoing enrollment, for direct or indirect compensation
in the provider’s home, and who meets all standards and requirements of the
state's rules for licensed family childcare. LICENSED FAMILY GROUP CHILDCARE
shall be a home occupation subject to the approval of requirements hereof.
LICENSED FAMILY GROUP CHILDCARE PROVIDERS shall obtain conditional use
approval, approval of the state and a business license prior to operation. A
conditional use approval for LICENSED FAMILY GROUP CHILDCARE shall be issued to
the applicant and shall expire upon lapsing of a business license or state
license, or at such time that the applicant is no longer residing at the
address at which approval is granted.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building where temporary lodging only is provided for
compensation to five or more, but not exceeding 15 persons, in contrast to
hotels. This may include “bed-and breakfast” type businesses.
   LODGING, SHORT-TERM RENTALS. A building or group of residential single-
family dwellings rented for between one to 30 days, for the purpose of
providing a temporary abiding place for one or more families. This includes
VRBO and AIRBNB type home rentals.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building or group
of buildings (main or accessory), together with such yards, open spaces, lot
width and lot area as are required by this zoning code and having frontage upon
a street. Except for group dwellings and a guest house, not more than one
dwelling structure shall occupy any one LOT.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE, REQUIRED. The length of the front lot line, which is
coterminous with the front street line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. For an interior lot, the lot line adjoining the street; for
a corner lot or through lot, the lot line adjoining either street, adjacent to
the architectural front or main entry. The LOT LINE, FRONT shall be used for
address designation.
   LOT LINE, REAR. Ordinarily, that line of a lot which is opposite and most
distant from the front line of the lot. In the case of a triangular or gore-
shaped lot, a line ten feet in length within the parcel parallel to and at a
maximum distance from the front lot line. In cases where these definitions are
not applicable, the Building Inspector shall designate the REAR LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front or rear lot line. A SIDE
LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is an INTERIOR SIDE LOT
LINE. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a STREET SIDE LOT LINE.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot.
   LOT, RESTRICTED. A lot having an average slope of 25% or more or which does
not contain a buildable area of at least 75 feet by 100 feet with an average
slope of less than 15%, such lot being prohibited as a building site, or being
required to be increased in area and width, and regulated and allowed to be
developed only as required by the Planning Commission.
   LOT RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land of not less than 16 feet in width
connecting a lot to a street for use as private access to that lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
the required front yard setback line or rear yard setback line, whichever is
shorter.
   MAP, OFFICIAL. Any map adopted by the City Council under the provisions of
UCA § 10-9a-407, as amended.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A transportable, factory-built housing unit that was
constructed on or after June 15,1976. According to the Federal Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (H.U.D. Code), in one or more
sections, and when erected on site, the home must be at least 20 feet in width
at the narrowest dimension, have exterior and roofing materials acceptable to
the city’s building codes, have a minimum roof pitch of two to 12, and be
located on a permanent foundation and connected to the required utilities,
including plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems. A
MANUFACTURED HOME shall be identified as real property on the property
assessment rolls of the county. All MANUFACTURED HOMES constructed on or after
June 15,1976, shall be identified by the manufacturer’s data plate bearing the
date the unit was manufactured and a HUD label attached to the exterior of the
home certifying the home was manufactured to HUD standards.
   MOBILE HOME. A moveable living unit which:
      (1)   Is designed to be transportable after fabrication on its own
wheels, attached wheels, or low boy, suitable for year-round occupancy and
containing a flush toilet, sleeping accommodations a tub or shower bath,
kitchen facilities, plumbing, and electric connections provided for attachment
to appropriate external systems. Pre-sectionalized, modular, or prefabricated
housing not placed on a permanent foundation shall be regarded as a MOBILE HOME
whether such units meet the city’s building and housing codes.
      (2)   Meets the city’s applicable building and housing codes and which is
placed on a permanent foundation is controlled by the zoning code and other
applicable ordinances the same as dwelling units constructed in the
conventional manner.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for
the placement of mobile homes for residential use.
   MOTEL. Any building or group of buildings containing sleeping rooms,
designed for temporary use and often by automobile tourists or transients, with
garage attached or parking space conveniently located to each unit.
   NATURAL WATERWAYS. Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
gulley, springs, or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by
the Zoning Administrator and in which areas no buildings shall be constructed.
   NONCOMPLYING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A structure that:
      (1)   Legally existed before its current land use designation; and
      (2)   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does
not conform to the setback, height restrictions, or other regulations,
excluding those regulations, which govern the use of land.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time any applicable zoning regulations become effective, the
design, erection, use, height, area, and yard dimensions of which do not
conform to the provisions of such regulation or regulations.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of land that:
      (1)   Legally existed before its current land use designation;
      (2)   Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use
ordinance governing the land changed; and
      (3)   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does
not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
   OPEN GREEN SPACE. An open space suitable for relaxation or landscaping. It
shall be unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings and/or hard surfaces such as
asphalt, cement, and packed gravel, except that such OPEN GREEN SPACE may be
traversed by necessary sidewalks and access rights-of-way.
   OPEN SPACE EASEMENT. An easement granted to the city by the owner developer
on and over land in that development which provides and guarantees that the
designated common open space and recreation land is permanently reserved for
and can be used only for open space and recreation purposes in accordance with
the plans and specifications approved by the Planning Commission and City
Council at the time of approval of the development.
   PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street, used for parking of more
than four automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. Space within a building, lot, or parking lot for parking or
storage of one automobile with direct and unblockable access to a driveway.
   PASTURE. An area of property whereon forages for the type of livestock being
grazed or otherwise confined is sustained over the entire area on a continual
basis except for when the PASTURE is being rotated, plowed, or replanted.
   PAYING GUEST. Any person hiring a room in a dwelling unit for living,
eating, or sleeping purposes.
   PHARMACY. A business selling health or treatment items including baby food
and diet supplements and dispensing prescriptions for medical or health
purposes and including and limited to candies, soft drinks, prepackaged ice
cream products not prepared on the premises, tobacco products, magazines, and
greeting cards.
   PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PRUD). A development in which the
regulations of the zone in which the development is situated are waived to
allow flexibility and initiative in site and building design and location in
accordance with an approved plan and imposed general requirements.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Elwood, Utah.
   POST OFFICE, LIMITED SERVICE. A post office operation providing services
normally permitted and/or required by contract with the U.S. Postal Service.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. The office of a member of a recognized profession
maintained for the conduct of that profession. It includes, but is not limited
to, an office for the use of accountants, doctors, attorneys, architects, real
estate agents, insurance brokers, dentists, engineers, or similar
professionals.
   RECREATIONAL COACH. A vehicle such as a recreational trailer, tent, camper
trailer, truck camper, travel trailer, camp car, other vehicle with or without
motive power, designed and/or constructed to travel on the public thoroughfare
in accordance with the provisions of the state’s vehicle code, designed for the
use of human habitation.
   RECREATIONAL COACH PARK. Any area or tract of land or a separate designated
section within a mobile home park where lots are rented or held out for rent to
one or more owners or uses of recreational coaches for a temporary time not to
exceed two weeks.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR DISABLED PERSONS. A single-family dwelling
structure that is occupied on a 24-hour-per-day basis by four or fewer disabled
persons in a family type arrangement under the supervision of a maximum of two-
house parents or a manager, for a total of not more than six individuals living
in a facility.
   SALON. A business providing cosmetic treatment services. This would include,
but not necessarily limited to, services provided by hairdressers, beauticians,
and cosmetologists. Types of establishments might be hair salons, tanning
salons, beauty salons, day spas, and medical spas.
   SENSITIVE AREA. Lands containing environmentally and geologically sensitive
elements which, if encroached upon by unsuspecting urban land development such
as utilities, housing, streets, and/or public facilities, could be damaged
beyond repairability or could cause severe damage to such urban development or
cause complete destruction thereof or cause loss of life or bodily harm. Such
SENSITIVE AREAS could include active earthquake faults, potential landslide
areas, steep unstable terrain, or areas of potential rockfall.
   SENSITIVE VEGETATION. Vegetative cover which can be harmed by compaction
from overuse, urban development, or altering of the hydrologic cycle in such a
manner as to create an environmental imbalance causing severe retardation of
growth or elimination of a particular variety of vegetative species.
   SENSITIVE WILDLIFE HABITAT. Wildlife habitat which provides an environmental
biosphere critical to the well-being and perpetuance of certain species of
wildlife, particularly if encroached upon by urban related development. This is
specifically related to the elimination of a limited habitat and its related
wildlife.
   SIGN. Any advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
display, illustration, insignia, surface or space placed, erected, or
maintained in view of the observer thereof for identification, advertisement or
promotion of the interests of any person, entity, product, or service, and
visible from outdoors. The definition of SIGN shall also include the sign
structure, supports, lighting system and any attachments, ornaments, or other
features used to draw the attention of observers.
   SIGN, ABANDONED. Any sign applicable to a use that has been discontinued for
a period of three or more months.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign which uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or to create a special effect or scene. Such motion does not refer to
methods of changing copy.
   SIGN AREA. For signs that have a frame or a separate background, the area of
a sign that is used for writing, representation, emblem, or other display
purposes located within the area of the frame or separate background containing
the display, excluding the structural supporting framework, bracing, or wall
provided such wall meets zoning code regulations and is clearly incidental to
the display itself. In computing SIGN AREA, only one side of a back-to-back or
double-face sign shall be computed when the signs are parallel or diverge from
a common edge by an angle of not more than 30 degrees. For signs that do not
have a frame or a separate background, SIGN AREA shall be computed on the basis
of the least rectangle, triangle, or circle large enough to frame the display,
including any material or color forming an integral part of the background of
the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure
against which it is placed. When a low-profile sign is mounted on a base rising
a maximum of three feet and consisting of materials matching the predominant
materials used in the construction of the principal building on the premises
where the sign is located, the area of the base shall not be included in the
calculation of SIGN AREA.
   SIGN AREA, CUMULATIVE. The cumulative area for all signs on a building for
building-mounted signs, and in addition, the cumulative area of all
freestanding signs on a site.
   SIGN, AWNING. Any sign painted on, attached to, or otherwise incorporated
into an awning.
   SIGN, BUS BENCH. Any sign incorporated into the design and/or construction
of a bench providing seating for users of a public transportation system.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a use conducted, a
commodity sold, or service performed on the premises.
   SIGN, CABINET. A sign consisting of a frame, usually but not necessarily
consisting of metal, containing or covered by transparent, translucent, or
opaque material that includes the sign copy.
   SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign painted on, attached to, or otherwise incorporated
into a canopy.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign that is characterized by graphical content
that can be changed or altered through manual, mechanical, or electronic means.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A temporary sign placed on a site identifying a new
development, the project contractor, builder, and/or institution providing
financing for the project. CONSTRUCTION SIGNS may include a plat map, project
marketing sign, and real estate information.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL/INFORMATIONAL (OFF-PREMISES). Signs that serve as
directional guides for vehicular or pedestrian traffic to:
      (1)   Recognized areas of regional importance and patronage including:
         (a)   Recreational and entertainment centers of recognized regional
significance;
         (b)   Religious, civic, or fraternal organizations;
         (c)   Historical landmarks, churches, schools, community centers,
hospitals, parks, or other such sites; and
         (d)   Public safety, municipal directional, parking, and essential
services.
      (2)   Businesses or uses that are located on premises other than that
upon which the sign is located.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL/INFORMATIONAL (ON-PREMISES). A sign guiding or directing
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and including instructions, e.g., parking or
exit and entrance signs, and which may contain the name and/or logo of an
establishment.
   SIGN, DIRECTORY. An identification sign, located on or off the premises to
direct vehicular or pedestrian traffic, that contains the name of a building,
complex, or center, and name and address of two or more businesses, being part
of the same sign structure, or interior to the building and visible from the
outdoors.
   SIGN, ELECTRIC AWNING. Any fireproof space frame structure with translucent
flexible reinforced vinyl covering cosigned in awning form, which may include
signage. Such awnings are internally illuminated by fluorescent or other light
sources in fixtures approved under currently adopted state building codes.
   SIGN, EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. Any sign that has characters, letters,
figures, designs, or outlines illuminated by a light source located outside of
the sign.
   SIGN, FLASHING. A sign that contains an intermittent or sequential flashing
light source used primarily to attract attention. Does not include changeable
copy signs, animated signs, or signs which, through reflection or other means,
create an illusion of flashing or intermittent light.
   SIGN, FLAT. A sign erected parallel to and attached to the outside wall of a
building or structure, and which does not project horizontally more than 24
inches from such building or structure with messages or copy on the face side
only.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign supported upon the ground and not attached to any
building or wall. FREESTANDING SIGNS include high-profile and low-profile
signs.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign, excluding decorative embellishments, to the grade of the adjacent street
or the surface grade beneath the sign, whichever is less. When a low-profile
sign is mounted on a base rising a maximum of three feet and consisting of
materials matching the predominant materials used in the construction of the
principal building on the premises where the sign is located, the height of the
base shall not be included in the calculation of SIGN HEIGHT.
   SIGN, HIGH-PROFILE. An on-premises freestanding sign higher than six feet
that is supported by one or more upright members or poles and not attached or
braced by any other structure.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign that identifies primarily the name, logo, and/
or address of a commercial, industrial, or condominium complex and the owner
and tenants thereof. IDENTIFICATION SIGNS may also contain information
pertaining to the goods or services offered by the commercial, industrial, or
condominium complex, however, such information shall be secondary in appearance
and area to the primary function of identification.
   SIGN, INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. Any sign that has characters, letters,
figures, designs or outlines illuminated by a light source located inside of
the sign.
   SIGN, LOW-PROFILE. Any freestanding sign having a maximum height of six feet
from final grade, or six feet from the top of the base upon which it is
constructed, which is incorporated into a landscape design theme or planter
box. LOW-PROFILE SIGNS may be mounted on a base rising a maximum of three feet
and consisting of materials matching the predominant materials used in the
construction of the principal building on the premises where the sign is
located.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any sign attached to or made an integral part of a marquee.
   SIGN, MOBILE. An on-premises sign having a medium to heavy frame that is not
permanently affixed to the ground. Such signs include those commonly called “A”
FRAME, PEDESTAL, TRAILER, and the like.
   SIGN, NAME PLATE. A sign indicating the name of a person or persons residing
on the premises.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to such time as it came within the purview of this
chapter and any amendments thereto, and which fails to conform to all
applicable regulations and restrictions of this chapter.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. Any sign that directs attention to a use, product,
commodity, or service not related to the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. Any sign that directs attention to a use conducted,
product, or commodity sold, or service performed upon the premises on which the
sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, PERMANENT. Any sign or advertising display constricted of durable
materials, usually intended to be displayed out of doors as a principal means
of identification or advertisement for an indefinite period of time.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A temporary sign on- or off-premises, announcing,
promoting, or drawing attention to any candidate(s) seeking public office in a
forthcoming election, or signs advocating political issues to be voted upon at
any special or general election.
   SIGN, PROJECT MARKETING. A temporary sign advertising the availability of a
project under construction or recently completed for sale, rental, or lease. A
PROJECT MARKETING SIGN shall be located on the property to which it pertains.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign attached perpendicular to a building or other
structure and extending in whole or in part more than 12 inches beyond any wall
of the buildings or structures.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A temporary sign advertising an open house, or the sale,
or availability for rental or lease, of the property on which the sign is
located, or a sign located off-premises and directing customers to an open
house for property for sale, rental, or lease. This definition does not include
construction or project marketing signs.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign, banner, pennant, valance, inflatable or
advertising display constructed of plastic, vinyl, paper, cloth, canvas, light
fabric, cardboard, wall board, or other light materials, with or without light
frames, usually intended to be displayed out of doors for an event which spans
a short period of time.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign that is either painted on a wall or its facing, or is
painted in such a way that it gives the visual appearance of being painted on a
wall or facing by not having a frame or separation from the wall or facing, or
consists of flat, individually-constructed letters.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign either attached to a window or door or located within
a building so as to be visible through a window or door by people outside of
the building. This term does not include merchandise displays.
   SIGN, YARD SALE. A temporary sign that announces a yard sale, garage sale,
or similar event on a property.
   SINGLE-FAMILY AGRICULTURAL USES. Property with the primary use of
residential that is also utilizing agricultural uses as a secondary use to
provide for the household. This includes the growing and harvesting of crops or
the raising of fowl or animals. This does not include activities involving the
processing or distribution of agricultural products.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses
owned by the occupants of the premises, and not kept for remuneration, hire, or
sale.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable other than a private stable.
   STORY. The space within a building, other than a cellar, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the ceiling next above.
   STORY, HALF. A story with at least two of its sides situated in a sloping
roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor
immediately below it.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, dedicated, abandoned, or condemned for public
use prior to the initial enactment of the zoning code, which affords the
principal means of access of abutting property and is more than 26 feet wide,
and any public thoroughfare dedicated to the public and accepted by proper
public authority or condemned for public use after that date.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground, or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any artificial or semi-artificial container, whether indoors
or outdoors, and whether above or below the surface of the ground, or both,
used or intended to be used to contain a body of water for swimming by any
person or persons, together with all permanent structures, equipment,
appliances, and other facilities used or intended for use in and about the
operation, maintenance, and use of such pool.
   SWIMMING POOL, FAMILY. A swimming pool used and intended to be used solely
by the owner, operator or lessee thereof and his, her, or their family and by
friends invited to use it without payment of any fee or consideration.
   TAVERN. Any business establishment operating under a Class “C” beer license.
Such establishments shall be limited in number to two per lineal block.
   THEATER, INDOOR PICTURE. A building or part of a building devoted to the
showing of moving pictures on a paid admission basis.
   THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN. An open lot or part thereof, with its appurtenant
facilities devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures, on a paid
admission basis, to patrons seated in automobiles.
   USE. The specific purposes for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon
the same lot occupied by the main use and devoted exclusively to the main use
of the premises.
   USE, CONDITIONAL. A use or occupancy of a building, or use of land,
permitted only when authorized upon issuance of a conditional use permit and
subject to the limitations and conditions specified therein as provided in §§
155.125 and
155.126 of this zoning code intended to allow compatible integration of uses
which may be suitable only in certain locations within a particular zone, or
only upon certain conditions and/or design criteria being achieved.
   USE, PERMITTED. Any use lawfully occupying land or buildings as authorized
in the zone regulations and for which no conditional use permit is required.
   WIDTH OF LOT. The distance between the side lot lines at the distance back
from the front lot line required for the depth of the front yard.
   YARD. An open space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward by buildings, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space on the same lot with a building between the front
line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the front lot line and extending
across the full width of the lot. The depth of the FRONT YARD is the minimum
distance between the front lot line and the front line of the building. On
corner lots, the FRONT YARD shall be that part of the lot between the principal
or entrance side of the building and the street line parallel thereto. The
principal side of a building shall be that side with the greater number of
entrances or the longer side, as designated by the Building Inspector. If there
are an equal number of entrances or sides of equal length, either side may be
designated as the principal side.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the rear line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the rear lot
line and extending the full width of the lot. The depth of the REAR YARD is the
minimum distance between the nearest part of the rear lot line and the nearest
part of the rear line of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
between the sideline of the building, (exclusive of steps) and the side lot
line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The width of the SIDE
YARD is the minimum distance between the nearest part of the side lot line and
the nearest part of the sideline of the building. The SIDE YARD shall remain
unoccupied of slabs, and hard surface improvements (vehicle storage not
permitted). The intent of the SIDE YARD is to be a landscaped buffer between
neighboring properties and uses.
   ZONE. The geographical area of the city within which the zoning regulations
are uniform.
   ZONING CODE. The zoning code of the City of Elwood, Utah.
(Ord. passed 7-9-2024)
NOTICING REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.035 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   The city shall provide actual notice or the notice required UCA § 10-9a-201.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.036 APPLICANT NOTICE.
   (A)   For each land use application, the city shall:
      (1)   Notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of each public
hearing and public meeting to consider the application;
      (2)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
applicant or the pending application at least three business days before the
public hearing or public meeting; and
      (3)   Notify the applicant of any final action on a pending application
   (B)   If the city fails to comply with the requirements of the above
divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) above or both, an applicant may waive the failure so
that the application may stay on the public hearing or public meeting agenda
and be considered as if the requirements had been met.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.037 NOTICE OF INTENT TO PREPARE A GENERAL PLAN OR COMPREHENSIVE GENERAL
PLAN AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Before preparing a proposed General Plan or a comprehensive General
Plan amendment, each municipality within a county of the first or second class
shall provide ten calendar days’ notice of its intent to prepare a proposed
General Plan or a comprehensive General Plan amendment to:
      (1)   Each affected entity;
      (2)   The Automated Geographic Reference Center created in UCA § 63A-16-
505;
      (3)   The association of governments, established pursuant to an
interlocal agreement under Title 11, Ch. 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, of
which the municipality is a member; and
      (4)   The state’s Planning Coordinator appointed under UCA § 63A-16-601.
   (B)   Each notice under division (A) above shall:
      (1)   Indicate that the municipality intends to prepare a General Plan or
a comprehensive General Plan amendment, as the case may be;
      (2)   Describe or provide a map of the geographic area that will be
affected by the General Plan or amendment;
      (3)   Be sent by mail, email, or other effective means;
      (4)   Invite the affected entities to provide information for the
municipality to consider in the process of preparing, adopting, and
implementing a General Plan or amendment concerning:
         (a)   Impacts that the use of land proposed in the proposed General
Plan or amendment may have; and
         (b)   Uses of land within the municipality that the affected entity is
considering that may conflict with the proposed General Plan or amendment.
      (5)   Include the address of an Internet website, if the municipality has
one, and the name and telephone number of a person where more information can
be obtained concerning the city’s proposed General Plan or amendment.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.038 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PUBLIC MEETINGS TO CONSIDER GENERAL
PLAN OR MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall provide:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time, and place of the first public hearing to
consider the original adoption or any modification of all or any portion of a
General Plan; and
      (2)   Notice of each public meeting on the subject.
   (B)   Each notice of a public hearing under division (A)(1) above shall be
at least ten calendar days before the public hearing and shall be:
      (1)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area;
      (2)   Mailed to each affected entity; and
      (3)   Posted:
         (a)   In at least three public locations within the municipality; and
         (b)   On the city’s official website.
   (C)   Each notice of a public meeting under division (A)(2) above shall be
at least 24 hours before the meeting and shall be:
      (1)   Submitted to a newspaper of general circulation in the area; and
      (2)   Posted:
         (a)   In at least three public locations within the city; and
         (b)   On the city’s official website.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.039 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PUBLIC MEETINGS ON ADOPTION OR
MODIFICATION OF LAND USE ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall give:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time, and place of the first public hearing to
consider the adoption or any modification of a land use ordinance; and
      (2)   Notice of each public meeting on the subject.
   (B)   Each notice of a public hearing under division (A)(1) above shall be:
      (1)   Mailed to each affected entity at least ten calendar days before
the public hearing;
      (2)   Posted:
         (a)   In at least three public locations within the city; and
         (b)   On the city’s official website.
      (3)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area at
least ten calendar days before the public hearing; and
      (4)   Mailed at least three days before the public hearing to:
         (a)   Each property owner whose land is directly affected by the land
use ordinance change; and
         (b)   Each adjacent property owner within 300 feet of the property
line of the project.
   (C)   Each notice of a public meeting under division (A)(2) above shall be
at least 24 hours before the meeting and shall be posted:
      (1)   In at least three public locations within the city; and
      (2)   On the city’s official website.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.040 THIRD PARTY NOTICE.
   (A)   The city requires notice to adjacent property owners, the city shall:
      (1)   Mail notice to the record owner of each parcel within 300 feet; and
      (2)   Post notice on the property with a sign of sufficient size,
durability, print quality, and location that is reasonably calculated to give
notice to passers-by.
   (B)   The city will mails notice to third party property owners under
division (A) above, it shall mail equivalent notice to property owners within
an adjacent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.041 NOTICE FOR A PROPOSED MULTIPLE-UNIT RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, OR
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The city shall provide notice of the date, time, and place of a public
hearing that is:
      (1)   Mailed not less than three calendar days before the public hearing
and addressed to the record owner of each parcel within specified parameters of
that property; and
      (2)   Posted not less than three calendar days before the public hearing,
on the property proposed for subdivision, in a visible location, with a sign of
sufficient size, durability, and print quality that is reasonably calculated to
give notice to passers-by.
   (B)   The city shall mail notice to each affected entity of a public hearing
to consider a preliminary plat describing a multiple-unit residential
development or a commercial or industrial development.
   (C)   The city shall provide notice as required by §
150.115 for a subdivision that involves a vacation, alteration, or amendment of
a street
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.042 HEARING AND NOTICE FOR PROPOSAL TO VACATE, ALTER, OR AMEND A PUBLIC
STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   For any proposal to vacate, alter, or amend a public street or right-of-way,
the land use authority shall hold a public hearing and shall give notice of the
date, place, and time of the hearing by:
   (A)   Mailing notice as required in §
150.115;
   (B)   Mailing notice to each affected entity;
   (C)   Publishing notice once a week for four consecutive weeks before the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality in which the
land subject to the petition is located; or
   (D)   If there is no newspaper of general circulation in the municipality,
posting the property and posting notice in three public places for four
consecutive weeks before the hearing.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.043 NOTICE CHALLENGE.
   If notice given under authority of this subchapter is not challenged under
UCA § 10-9a-801 within 30 days after the meeting or action for which notice is
given, the notice is considered adequate and proper.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
ADMINISTRATIONS
§ 155.055 LAND USE AUTHORITY.
   The decision-making bodies and officials identified within this subchapter
shall have responsibilities for implementing and administering the city’s
General Plan and the city’s land use ordinance, which include the city’s zoning
code, subdivision ordinance, and other ordinances, as allowed by state law, and
as contained in the Municipal Land Use, Development and Management Act, UCA §§
10-9a-101 et seq., as amended.
   (A)   City Council. The City Council (“Council”) shall have the following
powers and duties under this subchapter:
      (1)   To adopt, and to initiate amendments to the city’s General Plan,
and all elements of the General Plan;
      (2)   To adopt, and to initiate amendments to the city’s zoning code;
      (3)   To adopt, and to initiate amendments to the city’s subdivision
ordinance;
      (4)   To appoint a hearing officer to render a recommendation to the
Council if an applicant asserts a deprivation of, or has been subject to, a
taking of property without just compensation, or asserts some other
constitutional invalidity, as provided by herein;
      (5)   To establish a fee schedule by resolution for all approvals,
permits and licenses required by this subchapter, as provided herein; and
      (6)   To take such other action(s) not expressly delegated to the
Planning Commission, the Appeal Authority, or the city staff.
   (B)   Effect. All decisions of the Council, made under this subchapter,
shall take effect on the date of the meeting when the decision is made, unless
a different date is designated at the time the decision is made. The minutes of
all meetings of the Council shall be filed in the office of the City Recorder.
All such records shall be available for public review and access in accordance
with the Government Records Access Management Act, UCA §§ 63G-2-101 et seq., as
amended.
   (C)   Planning Commission.
      (1)   Creation, composition, appointment of members, expenses. There is
hereby created a Planning Commission within and for the city, to be known as
the city’s Planning Commission. The Commission shall consist of seven members
and one alternate members to be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of the
Council, from among residents of the city. Members shall be selected without
respect to political affiliations and shall serve without compensation, except
for reasonable expenses as determined by the Mayor with the consent of the
Council. The Mayor shall also appoint a City Council member to serve as a
liaison between the Planning Commission and City Council.
      (2)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the power and
duties in accordance with the Municipal Land Use, Development and Management
Act, UCA §§ 10-9a-204 et seq. as amended. The Commission shall be an advisory
body to the Council on legislative matters pertaining to the General Plan, the
land use ordinances of the city. The Commission shall have the following powers
and duties:
         (a)   To prepare, or cause to be prepared, the proposed city General
Plan, any proposed plan element, any amendments thereto, and to submit the
proposed plan, element or amendments to the Council;
         (b)   To prepare or cause to be prepared the proposed city zoning
code, any amendments thereto, and to submit the ordinance or amendments thereto
to the Council;
         (c)   To prepare or cause to be prepared the proposed city subdivision
ordinance, any amendments thereto, and to submit the subdivision ordinance or
amendments thereto to the Council;
         (d)   To hear, review and recommend approval or denial of all
applications for a General Plan amendment, zoning code amendment, or zoning
districts map amendment (rezone);
         (e)   To hear, review, and approve, approve with revisions, or deny a
site plan application, for a permitted use proposing new construction of a
building(s), or proposing any structural modifications to the exterior of an
existing building(s) as authorized by this subchapter, excluding single-family
and two-family dwellings;
         (f)   To hear, review, and approve, approval with conditions, or
denial of a conditional use application, including a site plan for a
conditional use;
         (g)    To hear, review, and recommend approval or denial of
subdivision applications to the Council, as authorized by the city’s
subdivision ordinance; and
         (h)   Advise the Council on all other matters as the Council may
direct.
      (3)   Terms of office of members of Planning Commission, vacancies,
removal of members. The terms of office of the original appointive members
shall be two and four years; four shall be appointed for two years, and four
shall be appointed for four years. Thereafter the terms of office for each
appointive member shall be four years. Vacancies occurring otherwise than
through the expiration of terms shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor,
with the consent of the City Council. Members may be removed after public
hearing by a majority vote of the City Council for causes established within
the rules of the Planning Commission or by a recommendation of the Mayor.
      (4)   Chairperson of Planning Commission, rules, record of proceedings.
The Planning Commission shall elect annually, a Chairperson, during the first
regularly held meeting in each new calendar year. The Chairperson will be
elected from among the members of the Planning Commission by a majority of the
total membership. The Mayor shall appoint a Vice Chairperson who will be named
at the following regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting. A Chairperson
shall serve for not more than two consecutive terms and shall only vote in the
event of a tie vote. In the event of a vacancy of the Chairperson’s position,
prior to the expiration of the Chairperson’s term or any prior vacancy, a new
Chairperson shall be elected whenever a previously appointed Vice Chairperson
position becomes vacant, the Mayor shall appoint a new Vice Chairperson. The
Planning Commission shall establish and adopt by-laws or rules of procedure
governing the conduct of meetings and operation of the Planning Commission.
Upon adoption of these rules, they shall be submitted to the City Council for
final approval and adoption by resolution. The Planning Commission, upon its
own initiative, may amend the by-laws or rules of procedure, and thereafter,
such amendments shall be submitted to the City Council for final approval and
adoption by resolution. It shall also keep a public record of its proceedings.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.056 APPEAL AUTHORITY.
   The city’s Appeal Authority shall consist of five members and whatever
number of alternate members that the Mayor considers appropriate, each to be
appointed by the Mayor for the term of five years, provided that the term of
one member shall expire each year. Any member or alternate member may be
removed for cause by the appointing authority upon written charges and after a
public hearing if such public hearing is requested. Vacancy shall be filled for
the unexpired term of any member or alternate member whose term becomes vacant.
   (A)   Organization and meetings.
      (1)   The Appeal Authority shall adopt by-laws for the regulation of its
procedure and the conduct of its duties not inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter or of the state code. Such by-laws, to become effective, shall
first be approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Decisions of the Appeal Authority shall become effective at the
meeting in which the decision is made, unless a different time is designated in
the Appeal Authority’s rules.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Appeal Authority shall have the following
powers.
      (1)   Appeals. Hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement,
determination or decision of the land use authority and/or city staff’s
application of the city’s land use ordinances. An appeal may not be used to
waive or modify the terms or requirements of the city’s land use ordinances;
      (2)   Special exceptions. Hear and decide special exceptions to the terms
of the zoning code where the City Council has granted jurisdiction to the
Appeal Authority to do so. The Appeal Authority may hear and decide special
exceptions only if authorized to do so by this chapter and based only upon the
standards contained in this chapter;
      (3)   Variances. Hear and decide all applications for variance from the
terms of this chapter other than allowing a use variance. Such decisions shall
be made in accordance with state law and the rules adopted by the Appeal
Authority; and
      (4)   Nonconforming Use. Hear and make determinations regarding the
existence, expansion, or modification of nonconforming uses.
   (C)   City staff’s determinations. The city staff may decide certain matters
as designated by the Appeal Authority, and consistent with guidelines
established by this chapter, state code, and the rules adopted by the Appeal
Authority. Pursuant to this authority, the city staff may decide all cases
which are routine in nature, uncontested, do not impact on the character of the
neighborhood, are primarily brought about by recent changes in this chapter
creating a large number of nonconforming structures or uses, and which the
Appeal Authority has granted on an almost routine basis. The specific types of
decisions the city staff is authorized to make shall include:
      (1)   Determination of a nonconforming use which can be verified by
substantial evidence. Substantial evidence, for the purpose of this subchapter,
shall mean official documents, including any written correspondence, receipts,
permits, or documents issued by a public body or agency thereof, and the like,
that may establish the truth of the matter asserted by the applicant;
      (2)   Consider additions or alterations to existing buildings and
structures which are nonconforming as to height, area, or yard regulations
provided the addition follows the existing wall lines and no additional
dwelling units are added to the building or structure;
      (3)   Change in status of a nonconforming use to an equally intensive or
a less intense use than that immediately preceding the proposed use; and
      (4)   Final review and approval on plans where the Appeal Authority has
required that a final plan be submitted for special approval, showing that all
the requirements imposed by the Appeal Authority in granting the original
approval have been complied with. All decisions of the city staff made under
this section may be appealed to the Appeal Authority.
   (D)   Appeals to the Appeal Authority. Appeals may be made to the Appeal
Authority by the city, the applicant, or any other person or entity adversely
affected by a zoning decision administering or interpreting a zoning code. All
appeals shall be made as follows.
      (1)   The appeal shall be made within 30 days of the action or decision
being appealed from by filing a notice of appeal with the Appeal Authority with
the city staff.
      (2)   The notice of appeal shall specify the grounds for the appeal and
circumstances related thereto. The notice shall allege that there was error in
the order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an official or
officials in the administration or interpretation of this chapter. A notice
failing to allege such error or specifying the grounds for appeal may be
summarily dismissed by the Appeal Authority with or without prejudice. Response
to the above requirements shall be set forth in detail in the notice of appeal.
The person or entity making the appeal shall have the burden of proving that an
error has been made.
      (3)   All papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was made shall be transmitted to the Appeal Authority.
      (4)   The Appeal Authority shall set the appeal for hearing to be held
within a reasonable time from the date the appeal is received. Written notice
of the date set for hearing the appeal shall be mailed to the applicant at
least seven days before the appeal hearing date. After hearing the appeal, the
Appeal Authority may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such
order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made and, to that
end, shall have all the powers of the officer or body from which the appeal is
made.
      (5)   The filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings and actions in
furtherance of the matter appealed, pending a decision of the Appeal Authority.
Said stay shall exist unless the Planning Commission or city staff certifies to
the Appeal Authority, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, the stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than by restraining order which may be granted by the District Court on
application, notice, and due cause shown.
      (6)   The concurring vote of three members of the Appeal Authority shall
be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of
any administrative official, Planning Commission, or agency, or to decide in
favor of the appellant.
      (7)   The city, or any person adversely affected by any decision of the
Appeal Authority, may petition the District Court for a review of the decision,
provided the petition is filed with the court within 30 days after the Appeal
Authority’s decision is final. In the petition, the appealing party may only
allege that the Appeal Authority’s decision was arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal. The Appeal Authority may, after finding that it is in the best
interest of the city to do so, stay its decision pending District Court review.
   (E)   Variances.
      (1)   A variance is a device which grants a property owner relief from
certain provisions of this chapter when, because of the particular physical
surroundings, shape, or topographical conditions of the property, compliance
would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a
mere inconvenience or a desire to reduce financial difficulties.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the Appeal Authority may
grant a variance from the requirements of any provision of this chapter to the
extent that such a grant shall be consistent with the provisions of this
subchapter. Notwithstanding, the spirit of this chapter must be observed and
substantial justice done. Further, a previous variance can never set a
precedent. Each case must be considered only on its individual merits. The
Appeal Authority may grant a variance only if:
         (a)   Literal enforcement of this chapter would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of this chapter;
         (b)   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other properties in the same zoning district;
         (c)   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zoning
district; and
         (d)   The granting of the variance will not substantially affect the
General Plan and will not be contrary to the public interest; and the spirit of
this chapter is observed and substantial justice done.
      (3)   In determining whether or not enforcement of this chapter would
cause unreasonable hardship under this section, the Appeal Authority may not
find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
         (a)   Is located on or associated with the property for which the
variance is sought; and
         (b)   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
      (4)   In determining whether or not enforcement of this chapter would
cause unreasonable hardship under this section, the Appeal Authority may not
find unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or economic.
      (5)   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances
attached to the property under this section, the Appeal Authority may find that
special circumstances exist only if the special circumstances:
         (a)   Relate to the hardship complained of; and/or
         (b)   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties
in the same district.
      (6)   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met.
      (7)   Variances, once granted, shall run with the land.
      (8)   Use variances may not be granted by the Appeal Authority or by any
other body.
      (9)   In granting a variance, the Appeal Authority may impose additional
requirements on the applicant that will:
         (a)   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; and/or
         (b)   Serve the same or similar purpose of the standard or requirement
that is waived or modified.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.057 ADMINISTRATION OF CITY’S LAND USE ORDINANCE.
   This section shall establish duties and responsibilities for the city staff
and other city officials and agencies, with respect to the administration of
the city’s land use ordinance.
   (A)   City staff. The duties of the city staff shall be as follows.
      (1)   Reviews and approvals. The city staff shall be authorized to
undertake reviews, recommendations, and approvals as described in §
155.249.
      (2)   General Plan. The city staff shall assist the Planning Commission
in the development and implementation of the General Plan for the physical and
economic growth of the city, and shall prepare population and growth studies in
support of the General Plan.
      (3)   Administrative staff assistance and technical advice. The city
staff shall provide staff assistance to the Planning Commission and Appeal
Authority. Staff assistance shall include attendance at regularly scheduled
meetings and the preparation and publication of agendas. The city staff shall
act as technical advisor to the Mayor, City Council, and other city departments
upon request, and other committees and commissions as the Council may
designate.
   (B)   Delegate responsibility. The city staff may appoint authorized
representatives to execute the responsibilities as described above.
   (C)   Administrative reviews and permits.
      (1)   Review for building permits. The Chief Building Official shall
submit all applications for building permits to the city staff for review. Such
review shall assure compliance with the regulations of this chapter. The
application for a building permit shall be accompanied by set of building
plans, a plot plan showing lot lines and dimensions, locations of structures
and improvements, requirements, building height limitations, and all data
necessary to show that all yard requirements and other provisions of this
chapter are met. The Chief Building Official shall issue no building permit
until the application is approved for zoning compliance by the city staff.
      (2)   Review for business licenses. The city staff shall also review and
approve all applications for business licenses, or renewal of such licenses, to
assure compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   Site plan review. The city staff shall receive all applications for
site plan review, as provided for in §
155.104. The city staff shall receive all submittals, assure completeness, and
prepare submittals for review.
      (4)   Conditional use permit. Applications for conditional use permit
shall be submitted to the city staff as provided for in §
155.105. The city staff shall receive all submittals, assure completeness of
submittals, and prepare submittals for review by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Temporary use permit. Applications for temporary use permit shall
be received by the city staff and follow the procedure as described in §
155.110.
      (6)   Amendments. Requests for amendments or changes to the city’s land
use ordinances or zoning map shall be initiated with the city staff.
      (7)   Interpretation. The city staff shall be responsible for
interpretation of the city’s land use ordinances and the zoning map. An appeal
of the Supervisor/City Planner’s interpretation may be made to the city’s
Appeal Authority as provided for elsewhere in §
155.056(A).
      (8)   Home occupation license review. The city staff shall review and
make recommendations for home occupation license.
      (9)   Sign permit. As provided in §§
155.330 through
155.341, the city staff shall be responsible for issuance of permits for signs,
and for enforcement of sign regulation.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
§ 155.070 APPLICABILITY.
   The regulations hereinafter set forth in this subchapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the zone regulations contained elsewhere in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020)
§ 155.071 LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP.
   The requirements of this chapter as to minimum lot area or lot width shall
not be construed to prevent the use for a single-family dwelling on any legally
approved lot or parcel of land. Combination of several lots under common
ownership can be considered a buildable lot, but separation of lots originally
under common ownership would not constitute a buildable lot. Such lot or parcel
of land must be located in a zone which permits single-family dwellings, has
access to a dedicated street, and shall be a legally divided lot held in
separate ownership at the time such requirements became effective for such lot
or parcel of land. The city staff shall make a determination as to the legality
of such lots based on documentation submitted by the lot owner. Appeal of such
determinations, or requests to vary the required yards for such lots, shall be
made to the Appeal Authority.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.072 EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A “LOT”.
   Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a "lot," as defined in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.073 ADDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS.
   The requirements of this chapter as to minimum site development standards
shall not be construed to prevent the use for a single-family dwelling of any
parcel of land in the event such parcel was held in separate ownership.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.074 ADDITIONAL MAIN BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   Every main building shall be located and maintained on a "lot" as defined in
§
155.023, and every lot shall have the required frontage on a "street" as
defined in §
155.023 or upon a right-of-way or access strip of not less than 26 feet wide as
approved by the Appeal Authority.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.075 ADDITIONAL YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No required yard or other open space around an existing building or
which is hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying
with the provisions of this chapter, shall be considered as providing a yard or
open space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open
space on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a
lot whereon a building is to be erected or established.
   (B)   On any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record
at the time of the initial enactment of this chapter and such lot having a
smaller width than required for the zone in which it is located, the following
regulations shall apply:
      (1)   For interior lots, each side yard may be equal to but not less than
the same percentage of the required side yard width as the lot is of the
required lot width, provided that in no case shall the smaller of the two side
yards be less than five feet or the larger less than eight feet.
      (2)   On corner lots, each side yard may be equal to but not less than
the same percentage of the required side yard width as the lot is of the
required lot width, provided that in no case shall the side yard on the
streetside be less than 15.
   (C)   On any interior lot where a private garage containing a sufficient
number of parking spaces to meet the requirements of this chapter has a side
yard equal to the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same zone,
the width of the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal that
of the minimum required side yard; and on any corner lot where such garage has
such side yard, the rear yard of the dwelling may be reduced to fifteen feet,
provided the garage also has a rear yard of at least 15 feet.
   (D)   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and
unobstructed except:
      (1)   For the ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices, and
other ornamental features, and chimneys and flues;
      (2)   For open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside
stairways and balconies opening upon fire towers which may project into a yard
not more than five feet;
      (3)   For accessory buildings in a rear yard;
      (4)   For patios and uncovered decks of not more than three feet above
ground level at the building line, which may project into a required rear yard
not more than ten feet;
      (5)   No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings in any
Residential Zone shall cover more than 10% of the rear yard;
      (6)   No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or
other requirements of this chapter for a lot or building may be conveyed away
from such lot or building, except as permitted by the Appeal Authority, and any
attempted conveyance or lease in violation hereof shall be void;
      (7)   No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located may be cut off from a larger
parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building or
development as a lot, except by permit of the Appeal Authority.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.076 ADDITIONAL HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways,
tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain a
building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestack and water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater
lofts, silos or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
prescribed in the zone height regulations, but no space above the height limit
shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space, and no
heights are permitted above the maximum allowed under airport area height
provisions.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than ten feet and no
accessory building in a Residential Zone shall be erected to a height greater
than 25 feet.
   (C)   Agricultural buildings such as grain elevators or other facilities
which are for bona-fide agricultural uses only shall be considered by the
Planning Commission as a special exception to the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.077 ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   (A)   No barn shall be maintained closer than 75 feet to any street.
   (B)   No barn, corral, pen, or coop shall be maintained closer than 25 feet
to any lot line and seventy-five feet to any dwelling on an adjacent lot.
   (C)   Farm animals shall be allowed in all zones provided the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   The property containing the animal(s) shall be at least 21,780
square feet:
      (2)   Animal limitations. The maintenance and keeping of animals and fowl
on a lot or parcel of land in a R1-20 and R1-40 Zones, where such use is
permitted, shall be limited to a total of 40 animal points per one-half acre as
determined from the chart below.
         (a)   Horses, cattle and llamas greater than 1,000 pound animals - 20
points each. Less than 1,000 pound animals - 50 pounds per point.
         (b)   Sheep and goats ten points each (lambs and kids, with their
mothers, up to 12 weeks of age will not count
         (c)   Pigs 20 points each with only two pigs per household allowed
regardless of acres (one litter, with their mother, up to six weeks of age will
not count). Wallows are not permitted.
         (d)   Turkeys and geese four points each (chicks up to eight weeks of
age will not count).
         (e)   Chickens, ducks, pigeons. rabbits. chinchillas, and other small
animals. Two points each (chicks, or litters with their mother, up to eight
weeks of age will not count).
      (3)   Special educational youth animal project permit. This section
allows for the alteration of the number of animals allowed on a property when
designated for a special educational youth.
         (a)   Special educational youth animal project permit process.
            1.   Application: submit a temporary limited use application for a
special educational youth animal project to the Planning Commission.
            2.   Application shall include a plot plan of where animals will be
kept on the property in relation to neighboring homes and property owners.
            3.   Application must be signed by the Planning Commission Chairman
or the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Conditions.
            1.   Permit shall not be granted for more than an eight-month
period in one calendar year and must be obtained prior to starting the project.
            2.   Permit can only be granted for an approved youth organization.
i.e. 4H, FFA, or Scouting with the purpose of the project stated on the
application.
            3.   The Planning Commission shall set conditions to mitigate:
               a.   Smell;
               b.   Noise;
               c.   Confinement; and
               d.   Pollution.
         (d)   Written complaints received by the City Council will be
evaluated within 15 days and additional conditions placed on the permit holder
or a severe complaint could result in a revocation of the permit.
         (e)   All animals not in compliance with division (C)(2) must be
removed from the property when the permit expires.
   (D)   All animals located on a lot or parcel of land must be contained upon
said lot or parcel.
   (E)   If signed written complaints are received by the City Council from
other residences, the City Council will, within 45 days, determine if the
complaint is significant or not. If significant a conditional use permit may be
required for said animals.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.078 BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   Domestic water supply and sewage disposal shall comply with the Bear River
Health Department requirements in all applications for a building permit where
either an approved supply of piped water under pressure, or a sewer, is not
available. When a public sewer is not available no building permit shall be
issued for any lot less than 20,000 square feet in area, except by approval of
the County Board of Health.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.079 REGULATIONS GOVERNING FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Fences and walls in residential districts may be erected or allowed as
limited or exempted herein, and provided that any fence or wall over three feet
in height shall require a fence permit and if over six feet in height, be
designed to withstand anticipated wind loads, as defined within the current
adopted City Building Code. For fences, retaining wall or other landscape
features less than three feet in height the following shall apply:
      (1)   When sidewalk is present, a fence, retaining wall or other
landscaping features may be place within one foot of the location of the
sidewalk;
      (2)   When no sidewalk is the present, a fence, retaining wall or other
landscaping features may be place in such a manner that it will be located no
closer than one foot to future sidewalk location.
   (B)   Limitations are as follows:
      (1)   No private fence or wall shall be erected, allowed or maintained on
public property without city approval. Such approval may be granted by the city
staff or designee under the following circumstances:
         (a)   The applicant is the owner of the adjacent property for which
the fence or wall approval is sought;
         (b)   The public property involved is a city street;
         (c)   When no sidewalk is present, the fence or wall will be placed in
such a manner that it will be located no closer than one foot to future
sidewalk location;
         (d)   When sidewalk is present, the fence or wall may be placed to
within one foot of the location of the sidewalk;
         (e)   The portion of the public right-of-way between the fence or wall
and the curb when curb is present, or between the fence or wall and the travel
way when no curb is present, shall be maintained by the adjacent property
owner;
         (f)   All other provisions of the Code apply;
         (g)   The owner will sign a document prepared by the City Attorney
agreeing to hold the city harmless from liability arising as a result of the
placement of the fence or wall on public property.
      (2)   On interior lots:
         (a)   In side and rear yards, and that portion of the front yard
between the front plane of the house and the required front yard setback,
fences and walls shall be allowed to a maximum height of six feet.
         (b)   In the required front yard setback, fences and walls shall be
allowed to a maximum height of four feet. A property owner may erect a six-foot
fence in the required front yard setback along a common property line that is
the back yard of an adjacent property, provided all other provisions of this
ordinance are met.
      (3)   On corner lots:
         (a)   In side and rear yards, and that portion of the front yard
between the front plane of the house and the required front yard setback,
fences and walls shall be allowed to a maximum height of six feet except that
in street-facing side and rear yards which back onto front yards of adjoining
lots, fences and walls shall be limited to a maximum height of six feet.
         (b)   In the required front yard setback, fences and walls shall be
allowed to a maximum height of four feet. A property owner may erect a six-foot
fence in the required front yard setback along a common property line that is
the back yard of an adjacent property, provided all other provisions of this
ordinance are met.
      (4)   The height limitations for fences and walls are further limited as
follows:
         (a)   In any district requiring a front yard, no obstruction to view
above three feet and below seven feet in height shall be permitted on any
corner lot within a triangular as per §
155.085.
         (b)   Where a fence or wall is erected on or within five feet of a
property line, upon a retaining wall, or where for other reasons there is a
difference in the elevation of the surface of the land on either side of a
fence, height of the fence shall be measured from a point halfway between the
top of the retaining wall and the land on the lower side or from the average
elevation of the surface of the land on either side and within ten feet of the
fence, but nothing herein contained shall be construed to restrict the fence or
wall to less than four feet in height measured from the surface of the land on
the side having the highest elevation.
         (c)   The Appeal Authority may grant special exceptions to the height
limits contained in this section for fences or walls surrounding tennis courts,
swimming pools, schools, or other special type facilities, where it is shown
that the normal use or level of protection requires a greater height for safety
or other reasons, provided, however, that the rights of adjoining property
owners are equally considered.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.080 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Exterior lighting. No spot light or floodlight shall be installed in
any way which will permit the direct rays of such light to penetrate into any
residential zone or onto any property used for residential purposes.
   (B)   Lights not to constitute traffic hazard. No light, sign or other
advertising structure as regulated by this chapter shall be erected at the
intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape or color, it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device or which makes use of the words "stop", "look",
"drive-in", "danger" or any other work, phrase, symbol or character in such
manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.081 PRIVATE PARK, PLAYGROUND, OR RECREATIONAL AREA.
   In all residential zones a private park, play-ground or recreation area with
or without a swimming pool shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   The lands and facilities used for such purpose shall be owned or
leased and operated by a non-profit corporation for the exclusive benefit of
the members, their immediate families and non-paying guests.
   (B)   Adequate rest rooms and sanitary facilities shall be provided and kept
available for use by members, their families and guests, and shall be
maintained in proper working order and in a clean and sanitary condition and in
full compliance with the reasonable standards, rules and regulations
established by the Bear River Health Department.
   (C)   Twenty-five off-street parking spaces, or one off-street parking space
for each four memberships in the operating corporation, whichever is greater,
shall be provided on the lot devoted to the principal use.
   (D)   Operation or use of the recreational or other facilities provided is
forbidden between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. the next following day.
   (E)   All facilities, equipment and building shall be set back not less than
20 feet from any property line and shall be located not less than 50 feet from
any main building on an adjoining lot and from any area upon which any such
main building may be constructed upon said adjoining lot if no such main
building is in existence.
   (F)   The minimum size of the lot or suite used for such recreational or
other purposes shall be one acre.
   (G)   Any lights used to illuminate the premises shall be installed in such
manner that the source of light shall be suitably screened to avoid annoying
illumination of lands outside said premises.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.082 PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATION.
   In all residential zones, public utility substations shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   Lot area. Each public utility substation in a residential zone shall
be located on a lot not less than 2,000 square feet in area.
   (B)   Yards. Each public utility substation in a residential zone shall be
provided with a yard on each of the four sides of the building not less than
five feet in width, except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a
street abutted by one or more residential lots, the front yard, side yards and
rear yard shall equal those required for a single-family residence in the same
zone.
   (C)   Street access. Each public utility substation in a residential zone
shall be located on a lot which has adequate access from a street, alley or
easement.
   (D)   Location to be approved. The location of public utility substation in
a residential zone shall be subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.083 SWIMMING POOL; FAMILY.
   A family swimming pool shall be permitted in the rear yard of a dwelling as
an accessory use provided the following requirements are met:
   (A)   The location of such family swimming pool or accessory machinery shall
not be less than ten feet from any interior property line. On corner lots, the
distance from said pool to the property line facing on a street shall not be
less than the required side yard for an accessory building in that zone.
   (B)   An outside family swimming pool shall be completely enclosed by a
substantial fence of not less than six feet in height and any lights used to
illuminate said pool or its accessories shall be so arranged as to reflect the
light away from the adjoining premises. A substantial fence shall mean any
fence that would not allow passage by any person and one that would feature a
self locking gate in the event a gate is utilized.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.084 BUSINESSES EXCLUDING PERSONS UNDER AGE 18, PROHIBITED.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no shop or retail
business, theater, store, bookstore, drug store or business otherwise permitted
to do business in any or all zones in the city, may be located or do business
within any zone in the city if said business or establishment, or any portion
thereof, caters exclusively to adult persons to the advertised or other
exclusion of persons under the age of 18 years; provided, however, that such
prohibition shall not apply to premises licensed to sell light beer to the
extent that such premises exclude or advertise the exclusion of, or sale of
beer to persons prohibited by law from buying or having same in possession, or
to private non-profit clubs licensed under applicable city license or to Utah
State Liquor Stores doing business under Utah law and/or provisions of the city
ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.085 CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS.
   (A)   In addition to the other provisions contained in this subchapter, a
clear view at the intersection of two streets shall be maintained within a
triangular area formed by the property lines and a line connecting them at
points 40 feet from the intersection of such lines; whichever is the least
restrictive, except for a reasonable number of posts, telephone or power poles,
pruned trees and pedestal type identification signs. To maintain this clear
view, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   No solid-type fence or other visual obstructions between three and
seven feet in height from the street elevation (measured from the elevation of
the adjoining sidewalk) shall be allowed;
      (2)   Open-type fences or other obstructions which are at least 50%
transparent are allowed to a height of four feet though they must be maintained
to permit clear and unobstructed view; and
      (3)   Pruning is required for trees with an overhang less than seven feet
above the street elevation (measured for the elevation of the adjoining
sidewalk) in the clear view area.
   (B)   A clear-view area shall also be maintained at the intersection of a
street and a private drive within a triangular area formed by a diagonal line
connecting the line of the curb of the street and the line of the edge of the
private drive at points 20 feet from the projected intersection of such lines.
In order to maintain this clear view, the standards outlined in (A)(1), (2) and
(3) above shall apply.
   (C)   The owner of any fence or wall shall have the duty and be required to
properly maintain the same by painting, treating, trimming, repairing, or
removal.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.086 USES NOT LISTED.
   Within any zoning district, the Planning Commission or designee shall have
the authority to identify and categorize unlisted uses within the listed
permitted or conditional uses, based on a finding of substantial similarity of
character, origin, and impact, etc., to a listed use, and when so categorized
such use shall thereafter be recognized and treated the same as a listed use.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020)
§ 155.087 ZERO SIDE YARDS.
   One zero side yard may be permitted when approved by the Planning Commission
and Council, and only if the following requirements are met:
   (A)   The remaining one side yard is equal to the combined total of the
required two side yards of the zone in which it is located;
   (B)   No window or other similar opening shall be installed in the building
or any accessory building along the side having a zero side yard;
   (C)   No zero side yard will be permitted on the lot side bordering on a
non-residential zone, or on a residential lot not utilizing zero side yard
provisions; and
   (D)   Use of the zero side yard is contingent upon development of or
commitment to development of a zero side yard on adjacent lot.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
§ 155.088 FLAG LOTS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   "Flag lot" means a flag or L-shaped lot consisting of a staff portion
contiguous with the flag portion, the staff portion having frontage on a
dedicated street.
   (B)   All flag lots shall be approved as a special provision to the Land Use
and Development Code by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may
grant approval only if 1) The applicant makes written application for a flag
lot on a form approved by the Planning Commission and pays the required fees at
the time the application is submitted; 2) there are special circumstances
attached to the property that do not generally apply to other properties in the
same area and; 3) the Planning Commission specifically finds that all of the
following conditions are met as to the proposed flag lot:
      (1)   It is necessary, reasonable and feasible to allow the flag lot in
the area;
      (2)   Approval of a flag lot in the area will not substantially affect
the general plan;
      (3)   Approval of a flag lot in the area will not be contrary to the
public interest;
      (4)   The staff of the flag lot has a minimum width of 30 feet;
      (5)   The staff of the flag lot has a maximum length of 250 feet;
      (6)   The flag lot, exclusive of the staff portion meets all of the
zoning requirements of a lot in the area in which it is located; or be a
minimum of one-half or one acre in lot size depending upon the residential
zone; and
      (7)   The applicant for a flag lot has prepared a plan showing the
location of fire hydrants to serve the flag lot and that plan has been approved
by the Fire Marshall.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may impose such additional requirements or
conditions on the proposed flag lot as it deems necessary.
   (E)   The staff portion of a flag lot shall be used only as for ingress/
egress. The staff portion shall be landscaped to be in harmony with other
adjacent property and shall be improved by the installation of an improved hard
surface such as concrete, asphalt or compacted road base.
   (F)   All improvements to the flag lot, including installation of the hard
surface and fire hydrants, shall be performed at the applicants expense. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for the proposed flag lot until the
improvements are fully installed.
   (G)   Flag lots shall be approved only in subdivisions containing four lots
or fewer.
   (H)   The Planning Commission may hold a public hearing on each flag lot
application it receives. Notice of such hearings shall be given to property
owners within a 300-foot radius of the proposed flag lot. The costs of such
notices shall be paid by the applicant.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. passed 2-11-2020) Penalty, see §  
155.999
USES
§ 155.100 USES.
   All uses allowed by this chapter shall be identified as:
   (A)   Permitted use;
   (B)   Conditional use;
   (C)   Temporary use; and
   (D)   Nonconforming use.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.101 PROHIBITED USES.
   Any use which is not identified by this chapter as either a permitted use, a
conditional use, or a temporary use is hereby determined to be a prohibited
use. A prohibited use shall not be allowed or authorized within the
incorporated area of the city.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.102 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   All requests for a permitted use, a conditional use, or a temporary use
shall be a made on an application form provided by the city.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.103 PERMITTED USES.
   The Planning Commission is authorized to issue all required approval of
zoning for a permitted use. As required by the city building codes, all
requests for a permitted use shall also provide an application for a building
permit and/or application for a business license, as applicable. No permitted
use shall become effective until an approval is received from the Planning
Commission and a building permit and/or business license, as required, is
issued by the city’s Building Department. The Planning Commission is also
authorized to impose such other reasonable conditions as provided in §
155.104.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.104 STANDARDS AND CRITERIA FOR PERMITTED USE.
   All applications for a permitted use are required to comply with the
requirements of this chapter, the requirements of the city’s building codes,
and the city’s business license codes (Title XI) as adopted and as applicable.
A permitted use application shall be reviewed in accordance with the following
general standards and criteria.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the permitted use request and
determine if the request meets the following requirements.
      (1)   The use is identified as a permitted use within the zoning district
as identified in §§
155.125 and
155.126.
      (2)   The use complies with the requirements for the zoning district with
respect to minimum area, setback requirements, height, buffer and landscape
standards, maximum coverage, parking, unloading, and all other requirements
applicable to the district.
      (3)   The use does not have an adverse effect on any sensitive areas, as
defined by §
155.023 of this chapter.
      (4)   The use complies with all road dedication requirements of the city
and provides necessary infrastructure as required by the city’s public works
standards and/or UDOT.
      (5)   The use meets all requirements of the Bear River Health Department
and the state’s Department of Environmental Quality as required and applicable.
   (B)   Upon finding that the proposed use, building or structure complies
with the standards and requirements of this chapter, the Planning Commission
shall issue an approval of zoning. With the receipt of a zoning clearance, the
proposed building or structure shall be reviewed for compliance with the city
building codes, as adopted. If the request for a permitted use complies with
the requirements of this chapter, the city building codes, as adopted, and the
requirements of the Bear River Health Department or the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality, as applicable, the permitted use shall be authorized.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.105 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The purpose of the issuance of a conditional use permit is to allow
the proper integration into the city of those uses which may be suitable in
specific locations or if such uses are designed, arranged or conducted on the
site in a particular manner.
   (B)   A conditional use permits may be approved by the Planning Commission
as provided by this chapter for any of the uses for which a conditional use
permit is required as identified in §§
155.125 and
155.126. The Planning Commission is also authorized to impose such other
reasonable conditions as provided in §
155.106.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.106 STANDARDS AND CRITERIA FOR CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review a conditional use request with
the following general standards and criteria:
      (1)   The use applied for at the location proposed is necessary or
desirable to provide a service or facility that will contribute to the general
well-being of the area and the city;
      (2)   Compatibility of the proposed use with the intent, function, and
policies established in the General Plan;
      (3)   Compatibility of the proposed use with the character of the site,
adjacent properties, and other existing and proposed development;
      (4)   The availability of, or ability to provide adequate services,
drainage, parking and loading space, fire protection, and safe transportation
access and vehicular circulation;
      (5)   Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case,
be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
working in the vicinity or injurious to property or improvements in the
vicinity; and
      (6)   If the Planning Commission determines that the standards of this
section cannot be met and that adequate mitigation measures cannot be imposed
to bring the use into conformity with the standards and criteria, the Planning
Commission may deny the request for a conditional use permit.
   (B)   In approving a conditional use permit, the Planning Commission may
impose such reasonable conditions with respect to location, construction,
maintenance, operation, site planning, traffic control, flood control, time
limits, and other items for the conditional use permit as deemed necessary for
the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest. The Planning
Commission may require guarantees or other evidence that such conditions will
be met and complied with.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.107 REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   If there is cause to believe that grounds exist for revocation or
modification of an approved conditional use permit, the Planning Commission
shall schedule the item for consideration at a regular meeting. A minimum
notice of 14 days prior to the meeting shall be provided to the owner and the
operator of the approved conditional use permit.
   (B)   A conditional use permit may be modified or revoked by the Planning
Commission if the Planning Commission finds that one or more of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The conditional use permit was obtained in a fraudulent manner;
      (2)   The use for which the conditional use permit was granted has now
ceased for at least 18 consecutive calendar months;
      (3)   The nature of the use for which the conditional use permit was
granted has changed or the intensity of use has increased beyond that
originally approved;
      (4)   The use constitutes a nuisance; and/or
      (5)   One or more of the conditions of the conditional use permit have
not been met.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.108 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT TO RUN WITH THE LAND.
   All conditional use permits authorized and approved as required by this
chapter are determined to run with the land.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.109 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   The purpose of the issuance of a temporary use is to allow the
establishment of a use on a temporary basis which will not create an undue risk
to the public health, welfare, and safety, and which will not create a
nuisance. Such uses may include, but is not limited to, construction offices,
or the storage of materials and equipment necessary for construction, and
seasonal activities such as a corn maze, pumpkin patch/stand, fireworks stand,
or Christmas tree lot.
   (B)   A temporary use shall be approved by the Planning Commission, as
provided by this chapter, for any of the uses for which a temporary use is
identified in §§
155.125 and
155.126. A temporary use shall only be authorized by the Planning Commission
for a period of up to six months. As required by the city building codes, all
requests for a temporary use shall also provide application for a building
permit and/or application for a business license, as required by the city. No
temporary use shall become effective until approval is received from the
Planning Commission and a building permit and/or business license, if required,
is issued by the city. The Planning Commission is also authorized to impose
such other reasonable conditions as provided in §
155.110 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.110 STANDARDS AND CRITERIA FOR TEMPORARY USES.
   In approving a temporary use, the Planning Commission may impose such
reasonable conditions with respect to location, construction, maintenance,
operation, site planning, traffic control, time limits, and other items for the
temporary use as deemed necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and
the public interest. The Planning Commission may require guarantees or other
evidence that such conditions will be met and complied with.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall reviewed a temporary use request with
the following general standards and criteria.
      (1)   The property on which the use, building, or other structure is
proposed is of adequate size and dimensions to permit the conduct of the use in
such a manner that it will not be materially detrimental to adjoining and
surrounding properties.
      (2)   The use will cease within a maximum of six months from the date of
issuance of the temporary use permit.
      (3)   The use will comply with all requirements of the city building
codes, city business ordinance (Title XI), Bear River Health Department, and
all other requirements as applicable.
   (B)   In approving a temporary use, the Planning Commission may impose such
reasonable conditions or restrictions as deemed necessary to secure the
purposes of this chapter. These conditions may include:
      (1)   That the site will be suitably maintained and that the design,
setbacks, fences, walls, and buffers of all buildings and other structures are
adequate to protect, preserve, and/or enhance the appearance and character of
the area;
      (2)   The regulations of §§
155.295 through
155.315, dealing with parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and
egress, loading and unloading areas, and the surfacing of parking areas and
driveways to specified standards;
      (3)   The provision of an adequate water supply, sewage disposal, flood
control, and fire protection;
      (4)   The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations,
smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic
disturbances, and radiation;
      (5)   Does not have an adverse effect on any sensitive areas, as defined
by this chapter;
      (6)   The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal
schedules and functions;
      (7)   The regulation of signs as per §§
155.330 through
155.341 of this chapter;
      (8)   The provision of a reasonable guarantee, bond, or other surety, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, that the proposed temporary use will be
maintained and operated in compliance with all conditions and requirements; and
      (9)   Such other reasonable conditions determined necessary by the
Planning Commission to allow the establishment and operation of the proposed
temporary use in an orderly and efficient manner.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.111 APPEALS OF PERMITTED USE, CONDITIONAL USE, OR TEMPORARY USE DECISION.
   Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission or
the land use authority in the approval or denial of a permitted use,
conditional use or temporary use may, within 14 days after the decision is
made, file an appeal of the decision to the Appeal Authority specifying the
nature of the appeal and the grounds on which they are adversely affected.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.112 NONCONFORMING USE, LOT, OR STRUCTURE.
   A nonconforming use, lot, or structure legally existing at the time this
chapter becomes effective, or at the time of an amendment to this chapter, or
by some action by a federal, state, or local government entity may continue,
provided the use, lot, or structure has been maintained continuously. A
nonconforming use, lot, or structure shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
intensified, except as provided for in §
155.113.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.113 STANDARDS AND CRITERIA FOR NONCONFORMING USE, LOT, OR STRUCTURE.
   A nonconforming use, lot, or structure that legally exists at the time this
subchapter becomes effective, or at the time of an amendment to this
subchapter, or by some action by a federal, state, or local government entity
may continue provided that the use, lot, or structure has been maintained
continuously.
   (A)   (1)   A nonconforming use, lot, or structure shall not be enlarged
upon, expanded, or intensified. A nonconforming use, lot, or structure may
apply to the Appeal Authority to be enlarged or modified by meeting the
following criteria.
         (a)   The change is in harmony with the surrounding neighborhood and
in keeping with the intent of the comprehensive plan and this subchapter.
         (b)   The proposed change shall not impose any unreasonable impact or
burden upon land located in the vicinity.
         (c)   Reasonable conditions may be attached to the approval in order
to assure compatibility with the surrounding properties.
      (2)   A nonconforming use or structure may be maintained and repaired. On
any work being completed that requires a building permit, a zoning approval
shall be issued that identifies the nonconformity, its legally nonconforming
status, and that the use, lot, or structure is not being enlarged, expanded, or
intensified.
      (3)   Any reconstruction or restoration of a nonconforming structure
shall comply with both this subchapter and with UCA § 10-9a-511(3).
   (B)   The determination of an abandonment of a nonconforming use, lot, or
structure shall comply with UCA § 10-9a-511(4).
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
SCHEDULE OF USES
§ 155.125 PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES BY ZONES.
   The table in §
155.126 shows all land uses which are allowed within the city. The following
criteria should be used to interpret the use listed in the table.
   (A)   Uses identified with a “P” designation are determined as a “permitted
use” and are required to receive approval as a permitted use as identified by
the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Uses identified with a “C” designation are determined as a
“conditional use” and are required to receive approval as a conditional use as
identified by the requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any use which is not specifically designated as a permitted or
conditional within any specific zone is prohibited in that zone.
   (D)   All uses must comply with applicable local, state, and federal
requirements and licensing and must provide evidence of such compliance before
the use is either approved by the city or established within the city.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.126 SCHEDULE OF USES
Use A R1-40 RD-1 R1-20 RD-2 C-1 C-2 C-3 I/M
Use                                                                         A R1- RD- R1- RD- C- C- C- I/
                                                                              40  1   20  2   1  2  3  M
Accessory building - customarily incidental to a listed conditional use     C C   C   C   C   C  C  C  C
Accessory building - customarily incidental to a listed permitted use       P P   P   P   P   C  C  C  C
Accessory buildings for the housing of animals customarily incidental to    P C   C   C   C   C  C  P  P
permitted agricultural uses
Agriculture feedlot                                                         C
Agricultural industry                                                       C                       C  P
Agricultural production (including grazing and pasturing of animals,        P C   C   C   C   C  P  P  P
horticulture, and field farming)
Agricultural sales - fruit/vegetable stand                                  P C   C   C   C   P  P  P
Air conditioning (sales and service)                                                          C  C  P  P
Airport                                                                                             C  C
Altering, pressing, and repairing of wearing apparel                                          P  P  P  P
Amusement arcade                                                                              C  C  P
Apiary and aviary                                                           P C   C   C   C
Assisted living center (residential facility for elderly persons or persons   C   C   C   C   C  C  C
with a disability
Automobile repair (including paint, body and fender, brake, muffler,
upholstery, or transmission work, conducted completely within enclosed                           C  P  P
building)
Automobile/trailers sales or rental and service                                                  C  P  P
Bakery                                                                                        P  P  P
Bank                                                                                          P  P  P  P
Batch plant (concrete plant)                                                                           C
Bookbinding                                                                                   C  C  P  P
Bottling (non-alcoholic)                                                                            P  P
Brewery, small/micro                                                                             C  C  C
Car wash (stand-alone)                                                                           C  C
Car wash (with gas station)                                                                   C  C  C
Carpet and rug cleaning and dyeing                                                                     P
Childcare provider, licensed family group (Utah R430-90- 3(1)(c))           C C   C   C   C   C
Childcare provider, residential certificate (Utah R430-50-3(1)(c))          P P   P   P   P
Church                                                                      P P   P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Commercial day care, pre-school, or nursery (non-residential)                                 P  P  C  C
Construction of buildings to be sold on-premises and then moved off                                 C  P
premises
Convenience store; neighborhood grocery                                                       C  C  C  C
Copy shop                                                                                     P  P  P
Correctional institutions
Dairy                                                                       C                       C  C
Dry cleaning                                                                                     C  C
Dwelling unit for employed caretaker/watchman                               C                    C  C  C
Educational institution                                                     P P   P   P   P   P  P  P  C
Egg handling (processing and sales)                                                                 P  P
Farm or ranch housing                                                       C C   C   C   C
Farms devoted to raising and marketing small animals for retail or
wholesale (chickens, turkeys, or other fowl or poultry, fish or frogs,      C
rabbits)
Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacture, processing and/or sales (only                             C
non-animal products and by-products are used)
Forestry Plantation                                                         P
Freighting or trucking yard or terminal                                                                C
Gas station (with/without convenience store)                                                  C  C  C  C
Golf course (except miniature golf course)                                  P P   P   P   P   P  P  P
Gun range (indoor)                                                                                  C  C
Half-way house                                                                                      C  C
Hardware store                                                                                C  C  C  C
Heavy equipment rental, sales, service                                                           C  C  C
Home and garden equipment rental (standalone)                                                    C  C  C
Home occupation - major (with onsite patrons)                               C C   C   C   C   C
Home occupation - minor (no onsite patrons)                                 P P   P   P   P   P
Honey extraction                                                                                 C  P  P
Hospital                                                                                      C  C  C  C
Hotel and motel                                                                                  C  C  C
Household pets                                                              P P   P   P   P   P
Ice manufacturing and storage                                                                       P  P
Indoor recreation, commercial                                                                 C  C  P
Indoor/outdoor health club or gym                                                             C  P  P
Junkyard
Kennel, commercial                                                          C                    C  C  C
Kennel, sportsman                                                           C                    C  C  C
Laboratory (no manufacturing)                                                                       P  P
Laundromat (large-scale, industrial)                                                                C  C
Laundromat (self-service, commercial)                                                         C  C
Lithographing (including engraving and photo engraving)                                       C  C  P  P
Lodging house
Lodging, short-term rentals
Manufacture of brick and all clay, ceramic, cinder, concrete, synthetic,
cast stone, plastic and pumice stone products, including the manufacture of
fabrication of building blocks, tile or pipe from raw material for use in
building construction or for sewer or drainage purposes, and including rock                         C  C
or gravel crushing of raw materials which is incidental to the manufacture
or fabrication of the above-described products, and provided that such
crushing facilities shall be located not closer than two hundred feet to
any property line
Manufacturing and maintenance of the following:
   a.   Business machines
   b.   Cameras and photographic equipment
   c.   Electric and neon signs, billboards and/or commercial advertising
structures
   d.   Light sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating ducts
and equipment                                                                                          P
   e.   Musical instruments
   f.   Novelties
   g.   Rubber and metal stamps
   h.   Toys
   i.   Batteries
   j.   Electric appliances and/or electronic instrument                
Manufacturing, compounding, and treatment of articles of merchandise from
the following previously prepared materials:
   a.   Bone
   b.   Feathers
   c.   Fiber
   d.   Fish
   e.   Glass
   f.   Hair                                                                                  C  P
   g.   Horn
   h.   Leather
   i.   Paint
   j.   Paper
   k.   Plastic
   1.   Rubber
   m.   Tobacco
Manufacturing, compounding, assembling and treatment of articles of
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials:
   a.   Cellophane
   b.   Canvas
   c.   Cloth
   d.   Cork                                                                                  C  P
   e.   Felt
   f.   Shell
   g.   Straw
   h.   Textile
   i.   Wood
   j.   Yarn
Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packing and treatment of bakery                       C  C  C
goods
Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packing and treatment of the
following products:
   a.   Cosmetics                                                                             C  C
   b.   Food products, excluding the following: fish, sauerkraut, pickles,
vinegar, yeast, the rendering of fat
   c.   Toiletries
Manufacturing, processing, and maintaining wood and byproducts of wood.
Including processes to finish production, like painting and staining,                               C  P
(examples: sawmill, planning mill, carpenter shop, cabinet shop, and boat
building)
Manufacturing, working with, and maintaining metals. Includes the processes
of welding and machining, (without causing noxious odors or fumes) Excludes                         C  P
the processes forge and foundry.
Material and/or equipment storing/processing (located on 50% or more of
either one lot or one acre) use for:
   a.   Candy                                                                                    C
   b.   Dairy products
   c.   Pharmaceuticals
Materials sales yard (including the sale of coal, fuel, lumber, rock, sand,
gravel, and the like, as an incidental part of the main business, but
excluding concrete mixing, except as such concrete mixing is necessary in                              C
the preparation and manufacture of any of the products specified in this
section)
Meat products (cutting, smoking, curing, and packing) -provided that no                       C  C  C  C
objectionable fumes are emitted - excludes slaughtering
Medical and dental clinic; doctors’ and dentists’ offices                                 P  P  P  P
Medical cannabis pharmacy (see §
155.127)
Medical cannabis production establishment (see §
155.127)
Miniature golf course, commercial                                                             C  C  C
Mobile home park
Monument work                                                                                       P  P
Mortuary                                                                                         P  P  P
Motion picture studio                                                                            C  P  P
Outdoor recreation dude ranch/family vacation ranch                         P                 C  C  C
Packaging and mailing (sales/services)                                                        P  P  P  P
Parking lot (not incidental to a use conducted on the premises)                                  C  C  P
Parking structure                                                                                C  C  P
Pawn shop                                                                                        P  P  C
Pharmacy (stand-alone/not part of retail store)                                               C  C  C
Power generation                                                                                 C  C  C
Printing (including engraving and photo engraving, blueprinting, photo                              P  P
stating and duplicating)
Private park, playground or recreation area (requiring membership)          C C   C   C   C   C  C  C  C
Private recreational camp or resort                                         C                 C  C  C
Professional office                                                                           P  P  P  P
Public building                                                             P P   P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Public cellular, radio and television transmitting towers                   C                 C  C  C  C
Public or quasi-public facilities, essential service facilities             C C   C   C   C   C  C  P  P
Public park, recreation grounds and associated buildings                    P P   P   P   P   P  P  P
Public stable, riding academy, riding ring, horse show barn or other        P                    C  C  C
equestrian facilities under single management
Public utility substation or water storage reservoir developed by a public  C C   C   C   C   C  C  P  P
agency
Reception center                                                            C                 C  C  C
Recreational coach park
Recreational facility beer retailer (e.g. club house)                                         C  C  C
Recycling collection and processing center                                                          C  C
Residential: condominium
Residential: multi-family dwellings
Residential: planned residential unit development                           C C   C   C   C   C  C  C  C
Residential: single-family                                                  P P   P   P   P   C
Residential: single-family agricultural uses                                P P   P   P   P   C
Residential: single-family townhouse
Restaurant, fast food establishment                                                           P  P  P  P
Restaurant, no alcohol sales and consumption                                                  P  P  P  P
Restaurant, with on-premises alcohol sales and consumption                                    P  P  P  P
Retail department or specialty store (no outside storage or display)                          P  P  P  P
Retail department or specialty store (with outside storage or display)                        C  C  C  C
Retail feed store (no onsite processing)                                                      P  P  P  P
Salon                                                                                         P  P  P
Sand blasting                                                                                          P
School, charter                                                             P P   P   P   P   P  P  P  C
School, private                                                             C C   C   C   C   P  P  P  C
School, public                                                              P P   P   P   P   P  P  P  C
Self-storage facility                                                                         C  C  C  C
Sexually-oriented business
Showroom (indoor)                                                                                P  P  P
Showroom (outdoor)                                                                                  C  C
Animal slaughtering and processing
Sign painting shop                                                                                  C  P
State liquor store/alcohol outlet - consumed off-premises
Substations or transmission lines                                           C                 C  C  C  C
Supermarket/grocery store                                                                     C  P  P  P
Tattoo establishment                                                                             C  C  C
Tavern/bar/pub
Theater (indoor)                                                                              C  C  C
Theater (outdoor)                                                                                   C
Tire retreading and/or vulcanizing                                                                     P
Tire sales and maintenance                                                                       C  P  P
Tobacco/vape shop                                                                                C  C  C
Trade or vocational school                                                                    P  P  P  C
Upholstering (including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating)                             P
Veterinary hospital (small animals only and provided conducted within       C                 C  C  P  P
completely enclosed building)
Veterinary hospital or clinic (indoor holding of animals)                   C                    C  C  C
Veterinary hospital or clinic (outdoor holding of animals)                  C                       C  C
Warehouse/distribution                                                                              C  P
Wholesale business                                                                               C  C  P
 
(Ord. 2024-005, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 155.127 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING SCHEDULE OF USES.
   The following regulations shall apply to the schedule of uses:
   (A)   (1)   Sale of firearms and alcohol shall not be permitted within 1,000
feet of any school or place of worship.
      (2)   A hotel or motel may have an “on-premises” consumption of alcohol
use that does not require more than 7% of the floor space of the hotel or
motel. Restaurants with “on-premises” consumption of alcohol use are also
permitted by conditional use in certain zones, as per the land use chart. Other
than for a hotel/motel or a restaurant, as designated on the Land Use Chart,
“on-premises” consumption of alcohol is not available for any other business in
any zone.
   (B)   Cannabis.
      (1)   Definitions. In addition to the definitions set forth in UCA §4-
41a-102 (Cannabis Production Establishments), and UCA § 26-61a-102 (Utah
Medical Cannabis Act), the following definitions apply:
         CANNABIS PRODUCTION ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment defined in UCA §
4-41a-102, and includes a cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis processing
facility, or an independent cannabis testing laboratory.
         MEDICAL CANNABIS PHARMACY. An entity that acquires or intends to
acquire, possesses, and sells or intends to sell cannabis in an medicinal
dosage form, a cannabis product in a medicinal dosage form, or a medical
cannabis device, to a medical cannabis cardholder, as defined under UCA § 26-
61a-102.
         PRIMARILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE. For the purposes of this section, and any
applicable state law the following zoning districts: A, Rl-40, Rl-20, RD-1, RD-
2.
      (2)   Standards.
         (a)   Medical cannabis production establishment. The following
standards apply:
            1.   No emission of dust, fumes, vapors, odors, or waste into the
environment from any facility involving the growing, processing, or testing of
cannabis.
            2.   Each medical cannabis production establishments shall:
               A.   Not be located in a primarily residential zone.
               B.   Meet the municipal code regulations, site development
standards, and sign requirements for any main building and accessory building.
               C.   Obtain and comply with all state requirements set forth in
accordance with UCA §§ 4-41a-101 et seq.
               D.   Comply with location requirements set forth in UCA § 4-41a-
201.
               E.   Obtain and comply with business license regulations.
         (b)   Medical cannabis pharmacy. The following standards apply:
            1.   Not be located in or within 600 feet of a primarily
residential zone.
            2.   No cannabis products shall be visible from outside of any
structure.
            3.   Meet the municipal code regulations, site development
standards, and sign requirements for commercial development.
            4.   Obtain and comply with all state requirements in accordance
with UCA §§ 26-61a-101 et seq.
            5.   Comply with location requirements set forth in UCA § 26-61a-
301.
         6.   Obtain and comply with business license regulations.
(Ord. 2024-005, passed 7-9-2024)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.140 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is divided into the following
zones in which land uses shall be limited as specified in this chapter.
Classification will be determined on the basis of location, topographic
features, and other reasonable considerations to guide the orderly physical
growth, neighborhood compatibility, and overall stability of the city:
   (A)   Agricultural Zone, A: §§
155.155 through
155.158;
   (B)   Single-Family Residential Zone, R-1-20, R-1-40: §§
155.170 through
155.174;
   (C)   Commercial Zone, C-1, C-2: §§
155.185 through
155.192;
   (D)   Industrial/Manufacturing Zone, I/M: §§
155.205 through
155.210;
   (E)   Sensitive Area Overlay Zone, SA: §§
155.225 through
155.232 ; and
   (F)   Master Planned Community Zone, multi-family, mixed use, varied
density: §§ 155.460 through 155.478.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2022-008, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.141 BOUNDARIES OF ZONES.
   (A)   The boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as
described herein or as shown on the map entitled “Zoning Map of the City of
Elwood” or as hereafter amended, and all boundaries, notations and other data
shown on said maps are made by this reference as much a part of this chapter as
if full described and detailed herein.
   (B)   Said maps shall be filed in the custody of the City Recorder, and may
be examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established by
the City Recorder.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2022-008, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.142 BOUNDARIES OF OVERLAY ZONE.
   (A)   The Floodplain Overlay Zone and Sensitive Area Overlay Zone are hereby
established as described and shown on the maps entitled “Sensitive Area Overlay
Zone”, and all boundaries, notations and other data shown on said maps is made
by this reference as much a part of this section as if fully described and
detailed herein.
   (B)   Said maps shall be filed in the custody of the City Recorder and may
be examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations and established
by the City Recorder.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2022-008, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.143 RULES APPLICABLE WHERE BOUNDARIES UNCERTAIN.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   (A)   Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon
the centerline of a street, alley or block, or along a property line then
unless otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the centerline of such
street, alley, or block, or such property line shall be construed to be the
boundary of such zone.
   (B)   Wherever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal, or other waterway, or
railroad right-of-way, or public park or other public land, or any section
line, then in such case of the center of such stream, canal, or waterway or of
such railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or such
section line shall be deemed to be the boundary of such zone.
   (C)   Where such boundary lines cannot be determined by the above rules,
their location may be found by the use of the scale appearing upon the map.
   (D)   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone
boundary location, the Appeal Authority shall interpret the map.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2022-008, passed 9-13-2022)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.155 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of the Agriculture Zone are:
   (A)   To provide areas to promote and protect the opportunities for a broad
range of agricultural uses and activities where farming is a viable component
of the local economy; and
   (B)   To implement the policies of the city’s General Plan, which contain
the goals of protecting agricultural lands and promoting agriculture as a
component of the local economy.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.156 SCHEDULE OF USES.
   For a schedule of permitted and conditional uses for the Agricultural Zone,
refer to §
155.126 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.157 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot size for a lot in the Agricultural
Zone shall be five acres.
   (B)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width for a lot in the Agricultural
Zone measured at minimum front yard setback line shall be 500 feet.
   (C)   Height standards.
      (1)   Minimum: one story
      (2)   Maximum: two stories or 35 feet
      (3)   Agricultural buildings such as grain elevators or other facilities
which are for bona fide agricultural uses only shall be considered by the
Planning Commission as a special exception to this chapter.
   (D)   Setback standard. The following table and figure depict the required
minimum setback for the Agricultural Zone:
 
              A  B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 C-1 C-2 D
Setback (feet) 30 20  30  20  30  30  20  10
 
   A = Front yard setback
   B-1 = Side yard setback
   B-2 = Side yard setback: primary structure (corner lot only)
   B-3 = Side yard setback: accessory structure
   B-4 = Side yard setback: accessory structure (corner lot only)
   C-1 = Rear yard setback: primary structure
   C-2 = Rear yard setback: accessory structure
   D = Setback from primary structure to accessory structure
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.158 VEHICULAR CIRCULATION AND PARKING.
   (A)   Parking for each use shall conform to §§
155.295 through
155.315.
   (B)   No required parking shall be permitted in any required setback area.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.170 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-1-20 and R-1-40 Zone classifications is to provide
regulated areas for single-family residential use at two different low density
levels.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2008-003, passed 4-8-2008)
§ 155.171 SCHEDULE OF USES.
   For a schedule of permitted and conditional uses for the Residential Zones,
refer to §
155.126.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2008-003, passed 4-8-2008)
§ 155.172 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot size for a lot in the Residential
Zone shall be:
      (1)   R-1-20 Zone: one-half acre or 21,780 square feet; and
      (2)   R-1-40 Zone: one acre or 43,560 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot width.
      (1)   The minimum lot width for a lot in the Residential Zone shall be:
         (a)   R-1-20 Zone: 120 feet; and
         (b)   R-1-40 Zone: 150 feet.
      (2)   Each lot or parcel shall have a minimum lot width measured at the
minimum front yard setback at a point which corresponds to the midpoint of the
front lot line.
   (C)   Height standards.
      (1)   Minimum: one story; and
      (2)   Maximum: two stories or 35 feet.
   (D)   Setback standard. The following table and figure depict the required
minimum setback for the Residential Zone.
 
Setback (feet) A  B1 B2 B3 B4 C1 C2 D
R-1-20         30 15 30 5  30 30 5  6
R-1-40         30 20 30 5  30 30 5  10
 
   A = Front yard setback
   B-1 = Side yard setback
   B-2 = Side yard setback: primary structure (corner lot only)
   B-3 = Side yard setback: accessory structure
   B-4 = Side yard setback: accessory structure (corner lot only)
   C-1 = Rear yard setback: primary structure
   C-2 = Rear yard setback: accessory structure
   D = Setback from primary structure to accessory structure
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.173 VEHICULAR CIRCULATION AND PARKING.
   (A)   Parking for each use shall conform to §§
155.295 through
155.315.
   (B)   No required parking shall be permitted in any required setback area.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2008-003, passed 4-8-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.174 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of the following permitted signs shall be in
accordance with the regulations set forth in §§
155.330 through
155.341:
   (A)   Construction project sign;
   (B)   Directional sign;
   (C)   Flat sign;
   (D)   Freestanding sign;
   (E)   Identification and information sign;
   (F)   Name plate; and
   (G)   Temporary sign.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008 ; Ord. 2008-003, passed 4-8-2008)  Penalty, see
§
155.999
§ 155.175 RD-1 ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide areas for low density residential development with
flexibility to allow the preservation of the open space/rural character of the
city without exceeding the overall density of one residential unit per acre of
land.
   (B)   Building lot requirements.
      (1)   Density. There shall be no more than one residential unit per acre
(43,560 square feet) contained within the boundaries of each phase of a
subdivision, except when previously completed phases of the same development
have sufficiently low density so that the average density is still one
residential unit per acre or less for the overall development.
      (2)   Lot area. There shall be a minimum of 14,500 square feet in each
lot. When a variety of lot sizes are included in a development, the larger lots
will be placed against existing developed R-1-20 and/or R-1-40 lots whenever
possible.
      (3)   Lot width. Minimum lot width: 100 feet. Each lot or parcel shall
have the minimum lot width measured at the minimum front yard setback at a
point which corresponds to the midpoint of the front lot line.
   (C)   Location of structures.
      (1)   Dwellings.
         (a)   Front setback: 30 feet from property line to garage, 25 feet for
the home;
         (b)   Side setback: ten feet minimum on each side, except 20 feet
minimum for side fronting on a street. Variances for odd shaped lots may be
granted by the Planning Commission; and
         (c)   Rear setback: 25 feet. On lots with odd shapes, the rear lot
line must average 25 feet, and must not be less than 15 feet at any point.
Variances for odd shaped lots may be granted by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Non-residential main buildings (lots that do not have a residential
unit).
         (a)   Front setback: 20 feet from property line;
         (b)   Side setback: ten feet minimum on each side, except 15 feet
minimum for side fronting on a street; and
         (c)   Rear setback: 25 feet.
      (3)   Detached accessory buildings and garages.
         (a)   Front setback: 30 feet from property line;
         (b)   Side setback: five feet; and
         (c)   Rear setback: five feet.
   (D)   Maximum structure height.
      (1)   Dwelling or other main building: 35 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory building: 20 feet.
(Ord. 2021-010, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 155.176 RD-2 ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide areas for low density residential development with
flexibility to allow the preservation of the open space/rural character of the
city without exceeding the overall density of two residential units per acre of
land.
   (B)   Building lot requirements.
      (1)   Density. There shall be no more than two residential units per acre
(43,560 square feet) contained within the boundaries of each phase of a
subdivision, except when previously completed phases of the same development
have sufficiently low density so that the average density is still two
residential units per acre or less for the overall development.
      (2)   Lot area. There shall be a minimum of 10,000 square feet in each
lot. When a variety of lot sizes are included in a development, the larger lots
will be placed against existing developed R-1-20 and/or R-1-40 lots whenever
possible.
      (3)   Lot width. Minimum lot width: 80 feet. Each lot or parcel shall
have the minimum lot width measured at the minimum front yard setback at a
point which corresponds to the midpoint of the front lot line.
      (4)   Sewer hookup. The use of septic is prohibited in the RD-2 Zone. All
homes and other main buildings in this zone must be connected to a sewer
system.
   (C)   Location of structures.
      (1)   Dwellings.
         (a)   Front setback: 25 feet from property line to garage, 25 feet for
the home;
         (b)   Side setback: minimum of eight feet on one side and ten feet on
the other side, except 20 feet minimum for side fronting on a street. Variances
for odd shaped lots may be granted by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Rear setback: 25 feet. On lots with odd shapes, the rear lot
line must average 25 feet, and must not be less than 15 feet at any point.
Variances for odd shaped lots may be granted by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Non-residential main buildings (lots that do not have a residential
unit).
         (a)   Front setback: 20 feet from property line;
         (b)   Side setback: ten feet minimum on each side, except 15 feet
minimum for side fronting on a street; and
         (c)   Rear setback: 25 feet.
      (3)   Detached accessory buildings and garages.
         (a)   Front setback: 30 feet from property line;
         (b)   Side setback: five feet; and
         (c)   Rear setback: five feet.
   (D)   Maximum structure height.
      (1)   Dwelling or other main building: 35 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory building: 20 feet.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 6-8-2021)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.185 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Neighborhood Commercial (C-l).
      (1)   Types of use(s). Uses that provide the supply of daily living needs
for the community, general retail sales.
      (2)   General location requirements.
         (a)   Corner properties;
         (b)   Along roadways (established or planned), with access to major
streets;
         (c)   Adjacent to residential developments; and
         (d)   Provides a transition between other uses.
   (B)   Community Commercial (C-2).
      (1)   Types of use(s). Uses that provide a wide range of facilities,
retail, wholesale, entertainment, and professional services.
      (2)   General location requirements. Access to major roadways with
capability to handle traffic generated by the proposed use(s).
   (C)   Light Industrial/Heavy Commercial (C-3).
      (1)   Types of use(s). Non-retail uses, light industrial uses and trades,
large scale commercial.
      (2)   General location requirements.
         (a)   Access to major streets; and
         (b)   Low potential for adverse impacts on key areas and entryways
into the city.
(Ord. 2024-005, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 155.186 SCHEDULE OF USES.
   For a schedule of permitted and conditional uses for the Commercial Zones
refer to §
155.126.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 155.187 HEIGHT, SETBACK, AND COVERAGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot acres. The minimum lot size for a lot in the Commercial
Zone shall be:
      (1)   C-1 Zone: 21,780 square feet;
      (2)   C-2 Zone: 43,560 square feet; and
      (3)   C-3 Zone: 43,560 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width for a lot in the Commercial
Zone shall be:
      (1)   C-1 Zone: 120 feet;
      (2)   C-2 Zone: 150 feet; and
      (3)   C-3 Zone: 150 feet.
   (C)   Height standards.
      (1)   C-1 Zone:
         (a)   Minimum: one story; and
         (b)   Maximum: three stories or 45 feet, whichever height is shortest.
      (2)   C-2 Zone:
         (a)   Minimum: one story; and
         (b)   Maximum: three stories or 45 feet, whichever height is shortest.
      (3)   C-3 Zone:
         (a)   Minimum: one story; and
         (b)   Maximum: three stories or 45 feet, whichever height is shortest.
   (D)   Setback standard. The following setbacks are the minimum for all
Commercial Zones:
      (1)   Front: 20 feet for all buildings and walls or fences over three
feet high;
      (2)   Side: none, except ten feet adjacent to residential boundary;
      (3)   Side facing street on corner lot: 20 feet; and
      (4)   Rear: none, except ten feet where building rears on a residential
zone or a street.
   (E)   Lot coverage. Maximum lot coverage: not over 60% of lot area by
primary buildings or accessory buildings.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 155.188 SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   Hereinafter specified permitted and conditional uses shall be permitted in
the Commercial Zones only when the following conditions are complied with:
   (A)   All manufacturing shall be done within a completely enclosed building.
   (B)   All uses shall be free from objection because of odor, dust, smoke, or
noise.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 155.189 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Site development shall conform in all respects to §§
155.245 through
155.256.
   (B)   Landscaping.
      (1)   The required 10% minimum landscaping shall be located, in full or
in part, within the required minimum setbacks from streets and residential
areas.
      (2)   Landscaping shall also be used, in conjunction with walls and
fences, to screen trash containers and other outside storage areas from public
view.
      (3)   All landscaping required by this subchapter shall include a
sprinkler or other irrigation system and shall be perpetually maintained by the
owner or lessee.
      (4)   Failure to maintain required landscaping in a condition
substantially similar to its original approved condition shall subject the
owner or lessee to a fine of up to $100 per day, and/or revocation of business
license, if, within ten days after the mailing of such notice, the violation is
not brought into compliance.
   (C)   Commercial development sharing a common boundary with existing or
proposed residential uses.
      (1)   The required minimum six-foot-high concrete or masonry wall shall
be constructed concurrently with the foundation of the proposed building.
      (2)   No proposed commercial use shall be constructed which will allow a
direct view into the rear yard of a residential use.
      (3)   (a)   Loading docks shall be located a minimum of 100 feet from an
existing or proposed residential use.
         (b)   Such loading docks shall incorporate screening whether in the
form of landscaping or wing walls.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 155.190 VEHICULAR CIRCULATION AND PARKING.
   (A)   Parking for each use shall conform to §§
155.295 through
155.315.
   (B)   No required parking shall be permitted in any required setback area.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 155.191 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of permitted signs shall be in accordance
with the regulations set forth in §§
155.330 through
155.341.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 155.192 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   A site plan is required for all commercial developments in all Commercial
Zones. See §
155.246 for all site plan requirements and review process.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 8-9-2022)
INDUSTRIAL/MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 155.205 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this zone is to provide areas in the city for manufacturing/
industrial uses.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.206 SCHEDULE OF USES.
   For a schedule of permitted and conditional uses for the Industrial/
Manufacturing Zone refer to §
155.126.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.207 AREA, WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD, AND COVERAGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot size for a lot in the Manufacturing/
Industrial Zone shall be one acre.
   (B)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width for a lot in the
Manufacturing/Industrial Zone shall be 100 feet.
   (C)   Height standards.
      (1)   For buildings and structures adjacent to public or private streets,
the maximum height at the minimum building setback line shall be 20 feet.
Buildings and structures exceeding 20 feet in height shall be setback one
additional foot for each foot of height over 20 feet.
      (2)   For buildings and structures sharing a common boundary with
existing or proposed residential areas, the minimum building setback from such
areas shall be increased two feet for each foot of height over 20 feet.
   (D)   Setback standard.
      (1)   Minimum building setback from all public or private streets shall
be 25 feet. On public streets, setback shall be measured from the right-of-way
line. On private streets functioning as main thoroughfares, not parking access
aisles, setback shall be measured from top back of curb, or if sidewalk is
existing or proposed, from edge of sidewalk.
      (2)   The minimum building setback may be reduced by five feet if the
setback area incorporates landscape berming over two feet in height.
      (3)   Parking shall not be allowed within the minimum (25 feet or less)
setback area, except as provided in division (D)(4) below, and such areas shall
be permanently landscaped.
      (4)   Where a site is located adjacent to a public or private street
which contains a privately maintained and landscaped median at least ten feet
in width, parking may be allowed within ten feet of such street. The 10-foot
separation between the parking and curb, gutter or sidewalk shall be completely
landscaped, exclusive of access drives, with a minimum of lawn and one tree for
each 300 square feet
      (5)   Manufacturing/industrial development sharing a common boundary with
existing or proposed residential uses shall maintain a minimum 20-foot setback
from such residential areas for all structures and storage areas. Such setback
areas shall contain a minimum six-foot high masonry wall located on the
property line, and one five-foot high coniferous tree per 300 square feet as a
minimum standard.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.208 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Site development shall conform in all respects to §§
155.245 through
155.256.
   (B)   (1)   The required 5% minimum landscaping shall be located in full or
in part within the required minimum setbacks from streets and residential
areas.
      (2)   Landscaping shall also be used, in conjunction with walls and
fences, to screen trash containers and other outside storage areas from public
view.
      (3)   All landscaping required by this subchapter shall include a
sprinkler irrigation system and shall be perpetually maintained by the owner or
lessee.
   (C)   Manufacturing/industrial development sharing a common boundary with
existing or proposed residential uses.
      (1)   The required minimum six-foot high concrete or masonry wall shall
be constructed concurrently with the foundation of the proposed building.
      (2)   No proposed manufacturing use shall be constructed which will allow
a direct view into the rear yard of a residential use.
      (3)   Loading docks shall be located a minimum of 100 feet from an
existing or proposed residential use. Such loading docks shall incorporate
screening whether in the form of landscaping or wing walls.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.209 VEHICULAR CIRCULATION AND PARKING.
   (A)   Parking for each use shall conform to §§
155.295 through
155.315.
   (B)   On a corner lot, no curb cut shall be located closer than 40 feet to
the curb line intersection of streets.
   (C)   Curb cuts shall not be located closer than 20 feet to a side or rear
lot line, and the distance between separate curb cuts serving adjacent land
uses shall not be less than 40 feet, unless one or more of the following
circumstances apply:
      (1)   A common curb cut serves adjacent land uses;
      (2)   Curb cuts cannot meet separation standards due to narrow lot
frontage;
      (3)   Curb cuts cannot meet separation standards due to location of
existing cuts on adjacent lots; or
      (4)   A professional traffic engineer, after preparing a traffic study,
recommends that curb cuts be located closer to interior lot lines in order to
maintain a safe distance from street intersections.
   (D)   (1)   An industrial lot or industrial complex with less than 300 feet
of frontage shall have no more than two curb cuts on any single right-of-way.
      (2)   One additional curb cut may be allowed for each additional 300 feet
of frontage on a single right-of-way.
      (3)   Curb cuts shall have a minimum distance of 40 feet between them.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.210 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The height, size, and location of the following permitted signs shall be in
accordance with the regulations set forth in §§
155.330 through
155.341.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
SENSITIVE AREA OVERLAY ZONE
§ 155.225 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a mechanism for the
protection of those areas of the city which are determined to be
environmentally sensitive areas.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to:
      (1)   Protect the general health, welfare, and safety of the citizens of
the city;
      (2)   Minimize public and private property damage and emergency tax
assistance; and
      (3)   Provide for an awareness of sensitive areas.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 155.226 SENSITIVE AREAS DEFINED.
   The following areas are determined to be sensitive areas of the city and are
subject to the requirements of this subchapter:
   (A)   Areas of steep slope, where the rise or fall of the land is equal to
or exceeds 20% (1:5) over a horizontal distance of 100 feet or greater;
   (B)   Jurisdictional wetlands, as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers;
   (C)   Natural waterways and areas lying within a floodplain, as identified
on the latest Federal Emergency Management Agency maps (FIRM maps);
   (D)   Areas of critical wildlife habitat;
   (E)   Earthquake fault areas and areas prone to debris flows, landslides,
liquefaction, and rock falls. Areas designated as active or potential
earthquake fault and/or landslide areas; and
   (F)   Wildfire hazards areas, areas of the city prone to have high potential
for wildfires hazards
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 155.227 SENSITIVE AREAS OVERLAY MAP.
   A map showing the sensitive areas overlay which specifies critical areas in
the city which, when proposed for development, must go through the process
outlined in this subchapter. Properties within this overlay may not be suitable
for development or may only be suitable after mitigation of the hazards
associated with the specific site.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 155.228 ALL DEVELOPMENTS TO BE CONSIDERED A CONDITIONAL USE IN SENSITIVE
AREAS.
   Because of the environmental conditions existing in sensitive areas, all
developments proposed within an area determined to be a sensitive area shall be
considered a conditional use and shall be reviewed and considered consistent
with the procedures for the review of a conditional use as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 155.229 REVIEW OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT IN SENSITIVE AREAS.
   The city staff, prior to scheduling any application for a development
proposed to be located wholly or partially, within any sensitive area as
identified by this subchapter, shall receive comments and recommendations from
the reviewing agencies, as applicable.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 155.230 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS BY SENSITIVE AREA.
   These standards are provided to ensure that any development proposed wholly,
or in part, within a sensitive area recognizes the physical and environmental
constraints of the development site. These standards shall supplement, and are
in addition to, other development standards provided by this chapter.
   (A)   Areas of steep slope.
      (1)   No building or structure (except for a required public utility and
necessary public roads) shall be constructed on any areas where the rise or
fall of the land is equal to or exceeds 30% (1:3) over a horizontal distance of
100 feet or greater.
      (2)   For those areas where the rise or fall of the land is equal to or
exceeds 20% (1:5) over a horizontal distance of 100 feet or greater development
may be permitted by the city upon the review and approval of an engineering
geotechnical report (see §
155.231):
         (a)   The location and description of existing natural and human-made
features on and surrounding the site, including general topography and soil
characteristics and a copy of the soil conservation service soil survey for the
site;
         (b)   The location and description of proposed changes to the site,
including any grading and excavation, vegetation removal, the location and
profiles of proposed roadways, the location of proposed utility lines, the
location of existing and proposed buildings and structures, and the location of
all other proposed site features;
         (c)   The identification of measures proposed for soil and sediment
control, including a schedule of the sequence for the installation of planned
erosion and sediment control measures, including anticipated starting and
completion dates; and
         (d)   Plans for the proposed vegetation of all disturbed site areas.
   (B)   Jurisdictional wetlands. No building, structure, construction,
excavation or land filling shall occur on any area determined to be a
jurisdictional wetland without the approval and necessary wetlands permit(s),
as required by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   (C)   Areas lying within a mapped floodplain.
      (1)   All buildings, structures, construction, excavation, or land
filling proposed within a mapped floodplain, as identified on the latest maps
issued by Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
or located within the city’s 100-foot buffer zone shall provide an elevation
certificate from a state-certified surveyor and be approved by the city’s
Floodplain Manager.
      (2)   Methods of reducing flood losses:
         (a)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which may result in increased
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
         (b)   Require the uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, to be protected against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;
         (c)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
         (d)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
         (e)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
   (D)   Natural waterways. All proposed development adjacent to a natural
waterway, including all rivers, streams, creeks, and natural drainage ways,
shall be subject to the following, but excluding bridges, boat ramps, culverts,
dams, trestles, and similar structures.
      (1)   A minimum setback of 50 feet for all structures and 100 feet for
all on-site septic systems shall be required. Additional setback may be
required, if necessary, as determined by the Planning Commission to avoid the
possibility of any stream or water pollution.
      (2)   The stripping of any vegetation area is prohibited within the 50-
foot setback.
      (3)   The mean high water mark shall be the point of reference as to the
edge of the waterway.
      (4)   The introduction of concentrated sources of pollution into the
waterways is prohibited including, but not limited to, septic tanks, untreated
sewage, commercial and residential garbage, manure, dead animals, waste, and
other hazardous materials.
   (E)   Areas of critical wildlife habitat. No development, building,
structure, construction, excavation, or land filling shall occur on any area
determined to be critical wildlife habitat without review and comment being
received from the state’s Division of Wildlife Resources and/or the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service prior to consideration by the approving body.
   (F)   Earthquake fault areas and areas prone to landslide. For those areas
identified as an active or potential mapped earthquake fault and landslide
areas, development may be permitted by the city upon the review and approval of
an engineering geotechnical report (see §
155.231) identifying the following:
      (1)   Accurately identifying the location of earthquake faults and
landslide areas;
      (2)   The location and description of proposed changes to the site,
including any grading and excavation, vegetation removal, the location and
profiles of proposed roadways, the location of proposed utility lines, the
location of existing and proposed buildings and structures, and the location of
all other proposed site features;
      (3)   The identification of measures and actions proposed to mitigate the
risks from earthquake, landslides, and soil disturbance including a schedule of
the sequence for the installation of planned mitigation actions, including
anticipated starting and completion dates; and
      (4)   No critical facility (excluding transportation lines or utilities
which by their nature may cross active faults or structures designed for human
occupancy shall be built astride an active fault. No structure designed for
human occupancy shall be built on a fault scarp. Footing setbacks from a fault
scarp shall meet the requirements of the International Uniform Building Code.
The Planning Commission may increase footing setback requirements where
information from a geotechnical report indicates a slope condition warrant a
greater setback distance.
   (G)   Wildfire hazards areas.
      (1)   Requirements for construction of all developments and structures.
         (a)   All new construction and any construction expanding the size of
an existing structure, shall have a “fuel break” as defined below.
         (b)   A FUEL BREAK is defined as an area which is free of dead or
dying vegetation, and has native, fast-burning species sufficiently thinned so
that there is no interlocking canopy of this type of vegetation. Where
necessary for erosion control or aesthetic purposes, the fuel break may be
planted in slow-burning species. FUEL BREAKS do not involve stripping the
ground of all native vegetation.
         (c)   A primary fuel break will be installed, maintained, and shall
extend a minimum of 30 feet in all directions around structures, excluding
fences, on the property. The goal within this area is to remove ground cover
that will produce flame lengths in excess of one foot. Such a fuel break shall
be increased by five feet for each 10% increase in slope over 10%.
         (d)   A secondary fuel break will be installed, maintained, and shall
extend a minimum of 100 feet beyond the primary fuel break where surrounding
landscape is owned and under the control of the property owner during
construction. The goal of the secondary fuel break is to reduce fuels so that
the overall intensity of any wildfire is reduced through fuels control.
         (e)    All structures shall be constructed or re-roofed with Class B
or better non-wood roofing materials, as determined by the building ordinance.
All re-roofing of existing structures in the wildfire lands area shall be done
under approval of a zoning permit. No structure shall be constructed or re-
roofed with wooden shingles, shakes, wood-product material, or other
combustible roofing material, as defined in the city’s Building Code.
      (2)   Fuel breaks in areas which are also erosive or slope failure lands
shall be included in the erosion control measures outlined in division (A)
above.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.231 ENGINEERING GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.
   (A)   The engineering geotechincal report shall be prepared by a licensed
geotechincal engineer and licensed geologist. The report shall be signed and
dated by the preparer and shall also include the qualifications of the
preparer.
   (B)   The report shall be site-specific and identify all known or suspected
potential geotechnical or natural hazards, originating on-site or off-site,
affecting the particular property.
   (C)   The report shall include a detailed site map (scale: one inch equals
200 feet or larger) showing the location of the hazard(s) with delineation of
the recommended setback distances from such hazards(s) and the recommended
location for proposed structures.
   (D)   The report shall address the potential effects of the hazard(s) on the
proposed development and occupants, thereof, in terms of risk and potential
damage.
   (E)   The report shall contain recommendations for avoidance or mitigation
of the effects of the hazard(s). The evidence on which the recommendations and
conclusions are based shall be clearly stated in the report. Trench logs
(scale: one inch equals five feet, or larger), aerial photographs, references
with citations, and other supporting information as applicable, shall also be
included in the report.
   (F)   All engineering geotechincal report submitted to the city shall be
reviewed by the state geological survey for completeness, accuracy, and
appropriate recommendations.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.232 DISCLOSURE OF A NATURAL HAZARD BY AN ENGINEERING GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.
   Whenever a potential natural hazard is identified by a required geotechnical
report under this subchapter, the owner of such parcel shall record a
restrictive covenant running with the land in a form satisfactory to the city
prior to the approval of any development or subdivision of such parcel which
shall include the following:
   (A)   Notice of the existence and availability of the engineering
geotechnical report that identifies the natural hazards for public inspection
in the city zoning office; and
   (B)   An agreement by the owner of the parcel and any successor in interest
to comply with any conditions set by the city’s Planning Commission to minimize
potential adverse effects of the natural hazard(s).
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
DESIGN GUIDELINES
§ 155.245 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of design review is to secure the general purposes of
this subchapter and the General Plan of the city and to ensure that the general
appearance of buildings and structures and the development of the land shall in
no case be such as would impair the orderly and harmonious development of the
neighborhood or impair investment in and occupation of the neighborhood. It
shall not be the intent of this subchapter to restrict or specify the
particular architectural design proposed or to specify the exterior detail or
design, color, or materials proposed by the applicant, except as such detail is
of such magnitude as to affect the general appearance and compatibility of the
development with its surroundings.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.246 APPLICATION AND REVIEW.
   All applications for occupancy permits or building permits for all buildings
and structures, except for single-family and two-family dwellings and their
accessory buildings, shall be accompanied by architectural and site development
plans to scale which shall show building locations, landscaping, prominent
existing trees, ground treatment, fences, off-street parking and circulation,
location, and size of the adjacent streets, north arrow and property lines,
drawings of the major exterior elevations, the building materials, proposed
exterior color scheme, existing grades and proposed new grades. All such
drawings and sketches shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission, except that
the review and approval of such permits by the city staff may be authorized by
the Planning Commission when the application meets all requirements of this
chapter. The number of sets of architectural and site development plans to be
submitted shall be determined by the city staff. All of the above required
architectural and site development plans shall have been reviewed and approved
prior to the issuing of a building permit.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.247 EXCEPTIONS.
   For buildings and uses covered by conditional use permits or planned unit
development approval, design review shall be incorporated within such
conditional use permits or planned unit development approval and need not be a
separate application, provided the requirements of this subchapter are met.
Agricultural buildings are exempt.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.248 PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   The Planning Commission, or the city staff when authorized by the Planning
Commission, shall determine whether the proposed architectural and site
development plans submitted are consistent with this subchapter and with the
general objectives of this subchapter, and shall give or withhold approval
accordingly. Denial of approval by the city staff may be appealed to the
Planning Commission, and denial by the Planning Commission may be appealed to
the Appeal Authority, as provided for appeals in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.249 CONSIDERATIONS IN REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   The Planning Commission and the city staff shall consider the following
matters, and others when applicable, in their review of applications:
   (A)   Considerations relating to traffic safety and traffic congestion.
      (1)   The effect of the site development plan on traffic conditions on
abutting streets;
      (2)   The layout of the site with respect to locations and dimensions of
vehicular and pedestrian entrances, exits, drives, and walkways;
      (3)   The arrangement and adequacy of off-street parking facilities to
prevent traffic congestion;
      (4)   The location, arrangement, and dimensions of truck loading and
unloading facilities;
      (5)   The circulation patterns within the boundaries of the development;
and
      (6)   The surfacing and lighting of off-street parking facilities.
   (B)   Considerations relating to outdoor advertising. The number, location,
color, size, height, lighting, and landscaping of outdoor advertising signs and
structures in relation to the creation of traffic hazards and the appearance
and harmony with adjacent development;
   (C)   Considerations relating to landscaping.
      (1)   The location, height, and materials of walls, fences, hedges, and
screen plantings to ensure harmony with adjacent development, or to conceal
storage areas, utility installations, or other unsightly development;
      (2)   The planting of ground cover or other surfacing to prevent dust and
erosion; and
      (3)   The unnecessary destruction of existing healthy trees.
   (D)   Considerations relating to buildings and site layout.
      (1)   Consideration of the general silhouette and mass, including
location on the site, elevations, and relation to natural plant coverage, all
in relationship to the neighborhood; and
      (2)   Consideration of exterior design in relation to adjoining
structures in height, bulk, and area openings, breaks in facade facing on the
street (or streets), line and pitch of roofs, and the arrangement of structures
on the parcel.
   (E)   Considerations relating to drainage. The effect of the site
development plan on the adequacy of the storm and surface water drainage.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.250 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, or the city staff when authorized, shall
decide all applications for design review.
   (B)   Design approval may include such conditions consistent with the
considerations of this subchapter as the Commission or city staff deems
reasonable and necessary under the circumstances to carry out the intent of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.251 FINDINGS AND DECISION.
   Upon a finding by the Planning Commission or city staff that the application
meets the intent of this subchapter, the design approval shall be granted,
subject to such conditions as are necessary; otherwise, approval shall be
denied.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.252 NOTIFICATION OF APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   Upon the grant of design approval, the Secretary of the Planning Commission
shall prepare and mail or deliver to the applicant a formal statement thereof,
stating the fact of the grant and any conditions attached thereto, or the fact
of denial and the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.253 TIME LIMITATIONS ON APPROVAL.
   (A)   If construction in harmony with the permit for any development for
which design approval has been granted has not been commenced within one year
from date of notification of approval, the approval shall be deemed
automatically revoked.
   (B)   Upon application an extension of time may be granted by the Planning
Commission, or by the city staff if authorized.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.254 TRANSFER OF APPROVAL UPON CHANGE IN USE.
   Design approval shall be deemed revoked if the buildings erected or the
classification of their use or the classification of the use of land for which
the approval was granted is changed, unless the approval is transferred by the
Planning Commission, or the city staff if authorized to do so. If the transfer
is not approved, a new application must be filed.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.255 CONFORMANCE TO APPROVAL.
   Development for which design approval has been granted shall conform to the
approval and any conditions attached thereto.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.256 MODIFICATION.
   Upon request of the applicant, modifications in the approved plan may be
made by the Planning Commission or the city staff if authorized to do so, if it
is found that the modification will meet requirements of this subchapter. The
Planning Commission may revoke or modify a design approval which does not
conform to any requirement of the approval permit.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.270 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   A planned unit development (PUD) is intended to allow for diversification in
the relationship of various uses and structures, to permit more flexibility, to
encourage new and imaginative concepts in the design of neighborhood and
housing projects in urban areas. To this end, the development should be planned
as one complex land use rather than an aggregation of individual unrelated
buildings located in separate unrelated lots. Substantial compliance with the
zone regulations and other provisions of this chapter in requiring adequate
standards related to the public health, safety and general welfare shall be
observed, without unduly inhibiting the advantages of large-scale site planning
for residential and related purposes.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.271 USE REGULATIONS.
   A planned residential unit development shall be permitted in all Residential
Zones and notwithstanding any other provisions as hereinafter set forth shall
be applicable if any conflict exists. An overall development plan for a planned
residential unit development showing building types, locations, sizes, height,
number of residential units, access roads, open spaces, parking and landscaping
may be approved by the Planning Commission and City Council and building
permits issued in accordance with such plan, even though the residential uses,
housing types, and the location of the buildings proposed differ from the
residential uses, housing types, and regulations governing such uses in effect
in the zone in which the development is proposed, provided the provisions of
this subchapter are complied with. Accessory nonresidential uses may be
included in the development to provide a necessary service to the residents of
the development as determined by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.272 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The minimum area for a planned unit development shall be ten acres.
   (B)   The number of dwelling units in a planned unit development may be 10%
higher than the number of dwelling units permitted by the area regulations of
the zone in which the planned residential unit development is located in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   Land for schools, churches, and other nonresidential service type
uses and land used exclusively for access to the useable area of a planned unit
development shall not be included in the area used for determining the number
of allowable dwelling units.
      (2)    The amount of bonus, if any, shall be determined by the Planning
Commission after considering the proposed site in relation to public services
and facilities surrounding residential density and land use, adequacy of
traffic access, topographic considerations, amenities proposed, and other
related conditions.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.273 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The development shall be in single or corporate ownership or the
application filed jointly by the owners of the property.
   (B)   The property adjacent to the planned unit development shall not be
adversely affected and to this end the Planning Commission may require in the
absence of appropriate physical boundaries that uses of least intensity or
greatest compatibility be arranged around the boundaries of the project. Yard
and height requirements of the adjacent zone shall apply on the periphery of
the project.
   (C)   Site development standards and sign regulations shall be determined by
approval of the site development plan.
   (D)   The City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, may
require dedication to the city land for public park or parkway purposes.
   (E)   The developer shall provide a financial guarantee approved by and in
an amount determined by the City Engineer guaranteeing the completion of all
off-site improvements related to the proposed PUD. The financial guarantee may
also be required by the City Engineer for any on-site landscaping and storm
water control systems which are to be part of the overall citywide stormwater
control system. The financial guarantee shall be approved by the City Council
and shall be filed with the City Recorder.
   (F)   Where access roads create corner lots of adjoining parcels of land,
the location of the paved area of the access road shall be located so as to
maintain the minimum corner lot side yard requirements of the zone in which the
corner lot is located, plus an additional ten-foot planting and walking area.
   (G)   If the planned unit development is to be subsequently divided either
as a “subdivision,” into phase development parcels or separately owned and
operated units, such division boundaries shall be indicated on the development
plan and preliminary subdivision approval concurrently obtained in the case of
“subdivision.”
   (H)   Any part of a PUD which is proposed as a subdivision is subject to the
provisions of the subdivision ordinance, except for reference therein to lot
dimensions and size, which is to be determined as part of the PUD review
process.
   (I)   In the event an approved preliminary or final site plan requires
revision by the developer, the site plan and its revision shall be resubmitted
to the Planning Commission for consideration of approval. The Planning
Commission may require re-approval by the City Council. In the event revision
is for final site plan, all new property owners in the development shall be
notified in writing by the Planning Commission that a revision has been
submitted and will be considered by the Planning Commission.
   (J)   In PUDs that are proposed as condominiums or other forms of multiple,
separate ownership, agreement shall be reached between the Planning Commission
and developer as to a schedule of installation of all development amenities and
such agreement shall be a condition of approval of the preliminary plan.
Amenities shall include all recreational facilities.
   (K)   Checking fees for PUDs shall be based on the same standards contained
in the subdivision ordinance and fees established for lots shall be applicable
to housing units.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.274 SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION.
    An application for a planned unit development shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission and shall be accompanied by an overall preliminary
development plan showing uses, dimensions and locations of proposed structures,
areas reserved for public uses such as schools, playground, landscaping,
recreational facilities, and open spaces, areas reserved and proposals for
accommodating the design and character of the proposed development, access, and
parking. Such other information shall be included as may be necessary to
determine that the contemplated arrangement of uses make it desirable to apply
regulations and requirements differing from those ordinarily applicable under
this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.275 PLANNING COMMISSION CONSIDERATION.
   In considering the proposed planned unit development, the Planning
Commission shall consider:
   (A)   The design of buildings and their relationship to the site and their
relationship to development beyond the boundaries of the development;
   (B)   Which streets shall be public and which shall be private, the
entrances and exits to the development and the provisions for internal and
external traffic circulation and off-street parking;
   (C)   The landscaping and screening as related to the several uses within
the development as a means of its integration into its surroundings;
   (D)   The size, location, design, and nature of signs if any, and the
intensity and direction of area or flood lighting;
   (E)   The residential density of the proposed development and its
distribution as compared with the residential density of the surrounding lands,
either existing or as indicated on the zoning map or General Plan of the city
as being a desirable future residential density; and
   (F)   The demonstrated ability of the proponents of the planned unit
development to financially carry out the proposed project under total or phase
development proposals within the time limit established.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.276 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   The Planning Commission, subject to the requirements of this subchapter, may
recommend approval or denial or approval with conditions, of the preliminary
plan for the proposed planned unit development to the City Council.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.277 CITY COUNCIL ACTION.
   The City Council, after holding a public hearing thereon, may approve or
disapprove the application, the Council may attach such conditions, including a
limitation of time during which the permit remains valid, as it may deem
necessary to secure the purposes of this subchapter. Approval of the City
Council, together with any conditions imposed, constitutes approval of the
proposed development as a permitted use in the zone in which it is proposed.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.278 FINAL SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   After City Council approval of the preliminary site plans, final site plans
reflecting all conditions of preliminary approval must be submitted to the
Planning Commission for approval. Approved final site plans will be forwarded
to the Building Inspector for issuance of building permits.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.279 BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Building Inspector shall not issue any permit for the proposed building
or use within the project unless such building or use is in accordance with the
approved development plan and any conditions imposed. Approved development
plans shall be filed with the Planning Commission, Engineer, Building
Inspector, and City Recorder.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.280 TIME LIMIT.
   Unless there is substantial action leading toward completion of a planned
unit development or an approved phase thereof within a period of 18 months from
the date of approval, as determined by the City Council, such approval shall
expire unless after reconsideration of the progress of the project an extension
is approved.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.281 EASEMENT OVER COMMON AREAS.
   In every planned residential unit, cluster subdivision, or condominium-type
development, there shall be reserved proper easements over the common areas to
accommodate public services, including but not limited to the right of police
and fire personnel to enter upon any part of the common areas, and to allow the
city to repair or replace facilities or improvements thereon if any association
fails so to do. The declaration for any such development shall include a
provision covenanting with the city and all unit owners to maintain the common
areas and facilities for the use of declarant and all unit owners prior to
being turned over to an association.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 155.295 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these off-street parking requirements is to reduce congestion
and traffic hazards within the city by incorporating adequate, attractively-
designed off-street parking and loading facilities for various land uses.
Parking areas shall be designed in such a manner that they will result in
maximum efficiency, protection of public safety, provide for the special needs
of persons with disabilities, and where appropriate, insulate surrounding land
uses from adverse impacts created by such parking.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.296 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   The off-street parking standards of this subchapter apply to any
new development and to any new use established.
      (2)   The off-street parking standards of this chapter apply when an
existing structure or use is expanded or enlarged. Additional off-street
parking spaces shall be required only to serve the enlarged or expanded area,
not the entire building or use. The Planning Commission may require increases
in parking for non-complying parking areas when found necessary to ensure
adequate off-street parking.
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be required for any change of use or
change of operation that would result in a requirement for more parking than
the existing use. Additional parking shall be required only in proportion to
the extent of the change, not for the entire building or use.
      (4)   Areas for deliveries and loading shall be required as a part of the
site plan review to ensure that loading and deliveries do not constrain fire
access, street safety, or use public streets for deliveries.
   (B)   Parking and loading areas to be maintained. All off-street parking and
loading area within the city shall comply with all of the standards prescribed
in this subchapter, and shall be permanently maintained in good condition for
the duration of the use or uses served by the facility. All paved areas shall
be maintained in good repair without broken parts, potholes, or litter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.297 SITE, ACCESS, AND LIGHTING PLAN REQUIRED.
   All applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a detailed
site, access and lighting plan showing the required off-street parking spaces
and points of access. Parking lots with less than five spaces are not required
to submit a lighting plan.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.298 OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements. The table below contains the minimum
parking requirements for specific uses. The maximum percentage allowed for
compact spaces is also given. Special requirements for each use are provided
under the “Notes” column where appropriate.
Use Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirement Max. % Compact Stalls Allowed Notes
Use                  Minimum Off-Street   Max. % Compact Notes
                     Parking Requirement  Stalls Allowed
Residential
                                                         The Planning
                     A minimum of 2                      Commission may vary
Housing for persons  parking spaces plus                 off-street parking
with disabilities or 1 parking space for  None           needs in relation to
group home housing   every 4 handicapped                 the number of staff/
                     persons                             employees required
                                                         and the special needs
                                                         of the residents.
                                                         The number of parking
                                                         spaces for home
Home occupation                                          occupations shall be
                                                         determined as part of
                                                         the conditional use
                                                         permit.
                                                         Parking one behind
                                                         the other
                                                         arrangements for all
                                                         required parking is
                                                         prohibited, except
Single-family                                            for visitor parking
dwelling             2 spaces per unit    None           for multiple-family
                                                         dwellings. Minimum
                                                         off-street parking
                                                         shall not be located
                                                         within the minimum
                                                         required front yard
                                                         setback.
Health Services
                     1 space for each 6.5
                     feet of linear pew
                     or 3.5 seats in an
                     auditorium provided,
Churches,            however, that where
auditoriums,         a church building is
assembly halls,      designed or intended
mortuaries and other to be used by 2
places of public     congregations at the
assembly             same time, an
                     additional 50% of
                     the minimum spaces
                     required shall be
                     provided
                                                         If drop-off
                                                         facilities are
                                                         contemplated, they
                                                         shall be designed to
                                                         provided a continuous
                                                         flow of vehicles to
Commercial day care, 1 space per 300                     safely load and
preschool and        square feet of gross 25%            unload children
nursery schools      floor area                          without stacking on
                                                         public streets. When
                                                         drop-off facilities
                                                         are provided, a
                                                         reduction to the
                                                         number of spaces
                                                         required may be
                                                         reduced.
                                                         A traffic study may
                                                         be required.
                     2 spaces per bed in                 Accessory units and
Hospitals            the total facility   25%            clinics will be
                                                         calculated as
                                                         outlined in this
                                                         subchapter.
Medical, dental      1 space per 200
offices and clinics  square feet of gross 25%
                     floor area
                     1 space per 2.5 beds
Nursing homes        for nursing and      None
                     convalescent homes
                     1 space per 200
Veterinarians and    square feet of gross
veterinary hospitals floor area excluding 25%
                     kennel Appeal
                     Authority area
Entertainment and Recreation
                     1 space per 100
Amusement center     square feet of floor 25%
                     space
                                                         Ancillary uses such
                     5 parking spaces per                as restaurants shall
Bowling alleys and   alley and 2 spaces   25%            comply with the
billiard halls       per billiard table                  specific requirements
                                                         outlined in this
                                                         subchapter.
Commercial riding    1 space per 5 horses
stables              Appeal Authority on  None
                     site
                                                         Ancillary uses such
Golf courses                                             as commercial pro
miniature golf       6 spaces per hole 3                 shops and restaurants
courses driving      spaces per hole 1    25%            shall provide
ranges               space per hole                      sufficient parking as
                                                         required in this
                                                         subchapter
                                                         Ancillary uses such
Health spas and      1 space per 200                     as restaurants to
sports complexes     square feet of gross 25%            provide parking as
                     floor area                          required by this
                                                         subchapter.
Movie theaters       1 space per 4 seats  25%
                                                         Ancillary uses to
Tennis, handball,                                        provide sufficient
and racquetball      3 spaces per court   25%            additional parking as
facilities                                               required by this
                                                         subchapter.
Commercial
                     3 spaces for each                   If towing service is
Auto repair,         service bay plus 1                  provided, sufficient
service, and auto    space for every 300  25%            area shall be located
parts sales          square feet of                      on-site for temporary
                     retail sales area                   storage of vehicles
                                                         and the tow truck.
                     1 customer parking
                     space per 400 square
                     feet of gross floor
                     area in the
Auto sales           automobile sales     25%
                     area or 5 parking
                     spaces, whichever
                     requirement is
                     greater
                     3 spaces for each                   If towing service is
Auto repair,         service bay plus 1                  provided, sufficient
service, and auto    space for every 300  25%            area shall be located
parts sales          square feet of                      on-site for temporary
                     retail sales area                   storage of vehicles
                                                         and the tow truck.
                     1 space per room                    Ancillary uses such
                     where no cooking                    as restaurants or
                     facilities are                      retail shops shall
Hotels and motels    provided. Living     25%            provide additional
                     units with cooking                  parking as identified
                     facilities shall                    for the specific use
                     provide 1.25 parking                as required by this
                     spaces per unit                     subchapter.
                     1 space per 300
Lumber yards and     square feet of       25%
plant nurseries      indoor floor sales
                     area
                     1 space per 250
                     square feet of gross                Drive-up windows
                     floor area for the                  shall provide
Professional offices first 20,000 square                 sufficient stacking
and banks            feet plus 1 space    25%            room and sufficient
                     per 300 square feet                 area for 3 spaces
                     of gross floor area                 from teller window.
                     in excess of 20,000
                     square feet
                     1 space per 100
                     square feet of gross
                     floor area or 1                     Drive-up windows
                     space for each 4                    shall provide
                     seats whichever is                  sufficient stacking
Restaurants and fast greater plus .5      25%            room and sufficient
food establishments  space for each                      area for 4 spaces
                     employee on the                     from place of order
                     highest employment                  and 4 spaces from
                     shift with a minimum                pick-up window.
                     of 5 spaces for
                     employee parking
                     1 space per 250
                     square feet of gross
Retail - intensive   floor area for the
general              first 20,000 square
merchandising        feet plus 1 space    25%
including shopping   per 300 square feet
centers              of gross floor area
                     in excess of 20,000
                     square feet
Retail - less        1 space per 400 feet
intensive:           of gross floor area  25%
furniture, carpet
Sports stadiums and  1 space per 4 seats
arenas, auditoriums  and 1.3 spaces for
(including school    each 100 square feet
auditoriums), other  of gross floor area  25%
places of public     used for assembly
assembly and clubs   and not containing
and lodges having no fixed seats
sleeping facilities
Swimming pools       1 space per each 10
(commercial and      persons based on     25%
public)              capacity load
Industrial
                     1 space per 500
                     square feet of gross                Ancillary uses such
                     floor area devoted                  as offices are to
Manufacturing        to manufacturing     30%            provide parking as
                     plus required                       required by this
                     parking for business                subchapter.
                     vehicles
                     1 space per 5,000
                     square feet of open
Open storage uses in area being utilized
an approved          for storage
industrial area      exclusive of access,
                     landscaping, and the
                     like
                     1 space per 350
Research and         square feet of gross
development          floor area plus the  30%
                     required parking for
                     business vehicles
                     1 space for each 2
Truck transfer       employees plus
companies            parking for each
                     truck associated
                     with the business
                     1 space per 1,000
                     square feet of gross
                     floor area for the
                     first 20,000 square
                     feet devoted to                     No conversions of any
                     warehouse plus the                  portion of a
                     required parking for                warehouse use to any
                     square footage                      other use shall be
Warehousing          devoted to other                    permitted unless the
                     uses. 1 space per                   parking requirements
                     2,000 square feet                   for such other uses
                     for the second                      are met.
                     20,000 square feet.
                     1 space per 2,500
                     square feet of floor
                     area in excess of
                     40,000 square feet
Other
                                                         The number of parking
                                                         spaces for uses not
                                                         specified herein
                                                         shall be determined
                                                         by the city staff
                                                         being guided, where
                                                         appropriate, by the
Parking spaces for                                       requirements set
uses not specified                                       forth herein for uses
                                                         which are similar to
                                                         the use not
                                                         specified. Appeals to
                                                         the decision of the
                                                         city staff are made
                                                         to the Appeal
                                                         Authority as
                                                         designated.
                     1 space per 250                     All public open space
                     square feet of                      area may be excluded
Public buildings and office space, and 1                 from determining the
use                  spaces for 3.5                      parking requirement
                     seating for meeting                 if these areas are
                     space                               not used for any
                                                         other use.
   
   (B)   Rules for computing requirements. The following rules apply when
computing off-street parking and loading requirements.
      (1)   Multiple uses. Parking for multiple uses sharing the parking shall
comply with the requirements of §
155.302 for shared parking.
      (2)   Fractions. If, in the application of the requirements of this
chapter, a fractional number is obtained, any fraction will be disregarded.
      (3)   Area measurements. Unless otherwise specifically noted, all square
footage-based parking and loading standards are to be computed on the basis of
gross floor area.
      (4)   Occupancy-based standards. For the purpose of computing parking
based on employees, students, residents or occupants, calculations shall be
based on the largest number of persons working on any single shift, the maximum
enrollment or the maximum fire-rated capacity, whichever is applicable and
whichever results in the greater number of spaces.
      (5)   Unlisted uses. Upon receiving a development application for a use
not specifically listed in an off-street parking schedule, the city staff shall
apply the off-street parking standard specified for the listed use that is
deemed most similar to the proposed use or require a parking study in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Off-street parking for land uses with unique parking requirements.
Off-street parking for land uses with unique parking requirements and uses
which have widely varying parking demand characteristics, make it impossible to
specify a single off-street parking standard. Uses found by the city staff to
have unique parking requirements shall comply with the provisions of this
section.
      (1)   A developer proposing to develop or expand a land use with unique
parking requirements shall submit a parking study that provides justification
for the number of off-street parking spaces proposed.
      (2)   The city staff and City Engineer shall review this study and any
other traffic engineering and planning data relevant to the establishment of an
appropriate off-street parking standard for the proposed use.
      (3)   A parking study shall include estimates of parking based on
recommendations of the Institute of Traffic Engineers (ITE), or other
acceptable estimates as approved by the Public Works Department, and should
include other reliable data collected from uses or combinations of uses that
are the same as or comparable with the proposed use. Comparability will be
determined by density, scale, bulk, area, type of activity, location, or
parameters of the use that may be estimated to parking requirements.
      (4)   The study shall document the source of data used, and methods used
to develop there recommendations. After reviewing the parking study, the city
staff and City Engineer shall establish a minimum off-street parking standard
for the proposed use.
      (5)   Appeals of the administrative decision may be made to the Appeal
Authority of adjustment in accordance with the procedures of §§
155.055 through
155.057.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.299 REDUCTION OF PARKING REQUIREMENT.
   The number of parking spaces required by these schedules may be reduced as a
condition of the development review by the Planning Commission for conditional
use applications or as approved by the city staff or designee for permitted
uses if it can be demonstrated through a parking study, prepared by a traffic
engineer, that the proposed use(s) would have a parking demand less than the
requirements stated in this subchapter. This parking study must be validated
through empirical evidence, which is acceptable to the city staff or designee,
from similar uses. Appeals of the decision of the Planning Commission and city
staff are made to the Appeal Authority as outlined in §§
155.055 through
155.057.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.300 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES.
   In order to minimize the number of unused parking spaces, the number of
parking spaces specified in this subchapter shall not be exceeded by an amount
of more than 25% of the required off-street parking
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.301 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES.
   Except for single-family access to require off-street parking spaces shall
be from a private driveway and not from a public street and shall not be
designed to require vehicles to back onto a street.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.302 SHARED PARKING.
   (A)   When any land or building is under the same ownership or under a joint
use agreement and is used for two or more purposes, the number of parking
spaces is computed by multiplying the minimum amount of parking normally
required for each land use by the appropriate percentage as shown in the
following parking credit schedule for each of the five time periods shown. The
number of parking spaces required is determined by totaling the resulting
numbers in each column; the column total that generates the highest number of
parking spaces then becomes the parking requirement.
    Weekday         Weekday      Weekend         Weekend      Nighttime
Use Daytime         Evening      Daytime         Evening      (Midnight - 6:00
    (6:00 a.m. - 6: (6:00 p.m. - (6:00 a.m. - 6: (6:00 p.m. - a.m.)
    00 p.m.)        Midnight)    00 p.m.)        Midnight)
              Weekday      Weekday      Weekend      Weekend      Nighttime
Use           Daytime      Evening      Daytime      Evening      (Midnight -
              (6:00 a.m. - (6:00 p.m. - (6:00 a.m. - (6:00 p.m. - 6:00 a.m.)
              6:00 p.m.)   Midnight)    6:00 p.m.)   Midnight)
General       80%          90%          100%         70%          5%
retail
Hotel, motel, 75%          100%         75%          100%         100%
inn
Meeting       50%          100%         100%         100%         10%
center
Multi-family  50%          90%          90%          90%          100%
residential
Office,       100%         10%          10%          5%           5%
industrial
Restaurant    65%          100%         80%          100%         50%
Theater,      40%          100%         80%          100%         10%
entertainment
All other     100%         100%         100%         100%         100%
uses
 
   (B)   Neighboring property owners may share parking spaces if:
      (1)   A permanent cross-access easement or other recorded agreement is
established;
      (2)   Access between the properties can be gained without utilizing a
public or private street; and
   (C)   The combined parking required for all properties can be met as
outlined in division (A) above when involving two or more uses.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.303 OFF-SITE PARKING.
   Required parking may be located off-site, if approved as an alternative
parking plan and in compliance with all of the following standards.
   (A)   Ineligible activities. Off-site parking may not be used to satisfy the
off-street parking standards for residential uses (except for guest parking),
restaurants, convenience stores or other convenience-oriented uses. Required
parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities may not be located off-
site.
   (B)   Location. Off-site parking may be located within a 300-foot radius
from the use served. Off-site parking spaces may not be separated from the use
served by a street right-of-way with a width of more than 80 feet, unless a
grade-separated pedestrian walkway or other traffic control or safety device is
provided.
   (C)   Agreement for off-site parking. Off-site parking requires a written
agreement that shall run with the land and which shall be recorded. A signed,
notarized copy of the agreement between the owners of record shall be submitted
to the city staff for review and approval. Recordation of the agreement shall
take place prior to the issuance of a building permit for any use to be served
by the off-site parking area. An off-site parking agreement may be revoked only
if required off-street parking spaces are provided in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.304 PARKING AND PARKING LOT ACCESS.
   Entrances and exits for parking facilities shall be designed to reduce
traffic congestion on public streets and minimize conflicts with neighboring
uses. The principles of access management should be used to evaluate and
determine adequacy of the ingress and egress to the parking facilities. The
following standard shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   Access drives for single-family dwelling.
      (1)   Approach width for single-family dwelling shall be a minimum of ten
feet wide and a maximum of 36-feet wide when measured at the property line. The
combined width of all approaches serving a lot shall not exceed 50% of the lot
frontage.
      (2)   For each single-family dwelling, not more than two approaches shall
be allowed, except corner and double frontage lots, which shall be allowed
three approaches. Separation between approaches shall have minimum separation
of 12 feet measured at the property line.
      (3)   Approaches shall not be allowed on corner lots within the no-view
obstructing or sight obscuring triangle occurring at the intersection of the
two street lot lines as defined within this chapter.
      (4)   Approaches shall not be located closer than five feet to side or
rear property line. This shall be measured at the property line.
   (B)   Standards for the width, radius, location, and number of curb cuts for
all uses except single-family dwelling are outlined in the table below:
 
Future                    Minimum               Separation    Number of
Right-of-Way Max Curb Cut Access  Separation    from Side/    Curb Cuts
Width        Width        Radius  from Corners* Rear Property Allowed
                                                Lines**
<66'         36'          5'      100'          20'           1 per 150' of
                                                              road frontage
66'- 79'     40'          5'      120'          20'           1 per 200' of
                                                              road frontage
80' and up   50'          5'      140'          20'           1 per 350' of
                                                              road frontage
Table Notes:
*Measurement made from the point of intersecting curb lines to near edge of
driveway.
** Except to separation requirement if a shared assess is proposed under §
155.304(D).These standards do not apply to state roads.
 
   (C)   The City Engineer or designee may modify the standards in the table in
§
155.298(B) above if sufficient proof is provided through a traffic study that
the modification will be necessary for traffic movement. The maximum driveway
width shall be 50 feet.
   (D)   To reduce and limit the number of points of access along city streets.
Shared access between adjoining parcels is strongly encouraged. The Planning
Commission may require a shared access as a condition of project approval. When
a shared access is used the adjacent property owner’s shall:
      (1)   Record a cross easement for the approach, signed by both adjacent
property owner’s and the city, allowing both adjacent property owner’s equal
and unrestricted access to the approach; and
      (2)   The shared access shall be adequately separated to allow individual
maintenance and repair.
   (E)   The Public Works Director may enter into a recorded agreement with a
property owner to defer the construction of improvements to a future date. The
improvements shall be constructed within five years of the date of the
agreement. In cases where the city will be undertaking similar improvements to
the same street, and such improvements have been scheduled, a longer period
than five years may be approved by the Public Works Director. Improvement
security may be required as a part of the delay agreement.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall determine the appropriate arrangement of
approaches for essential service facilities during the design review or
conditional use review process.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.305 STACKING LANES, NUMBER OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Adequate stacking or waiting lanes for those uses requiring such
stacking areas shall be designed so that no obstruction shall occur at the
public right-of-way. The table below shows the requirement for stacking based
on the type of activity.
Activity Type Minimum Stack Measured From
Activity Type                   Minimum Stack                 Measured From
Bank teller lane                3 per lane                    Teller or window
Automated teller machine        3 per machine                 Teller
Restaurant drive-through        8                             Order box*
Car wash stall, automatic       6                             Entrance
Car wash stall, self -service   1                             Entrance
Other                           Determined by City Engineer
                                based on traffic study
Convenience store drive-through Prohibited
Gasoline pump island            30 feet from each end of pump
                                island
Table Notes: *Stacking for at least four vehicles shall be provided between
the order box and pick-up window.
   (B)   Standards for design and layout apply to all drive through facilities.
Required stacking spaces are subject to the following design and layout
standards.
      (1)   Stacking space shall be a minimum of eight feet by 16 feet in size.
      (2)   Stacking spaces shall not impede on-site or off-site traffic
movements or movements into or out of off-street parking spaces. Stacking
spaces shall be separated from other internal driveways with raised medians, as
deemed necessary by the City Engineer for traffic movement and safety.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.306 PARKING LOT LAYOUT.
   Parking lots shall be designed to provide for internal circulation so that
each parking space is accessible to all other parking spaces without using a
public street. All properties shall provide attractive, direct, and safe
pedestrian access to parking. The layout of the parking areas shall relate to
building entrances. The graphic and tables below shall be used to provide the
minimum design standards for parking layout:
   Parking lot requirements:
   A = Parking angle   
   B = Stall width      
   C = Stall length      
   D = Aisle width
   E = Stall to curb
   F = Curb to curb
Standard Vehicle Width-9' Depth-18'
A B C D E F
Standard Vehicle Width-9' Depth-18'
A   B   C   D    E   F
0° 10' 22' 12'* 10' 32'
30°9'  18' 15'* 18' 51'
45°9'  18' 15'* 21' 57'
60°9'  18' 20'* 22' 64'
90°9'  18' 24'  18' 60'
Table Notes: *One-way traffic only
 
Compact Vehicle Width-9' Depth-16'
A B C D E F
Compact Vehicle Width-9' Depth-16'
A   B   C   D    E   F
0° 10' 20' 12'* 10' 32'
30°9'  16' 15'* 15' 45'
45°9'  16' 15'* 17' 49'
60°9'  16' 20'* 18' 56'
90°9'  16' 24'  16' 56'
Table Notes: *One-way traffic only
 
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.307 COMPACT CAR DESIGN.
   Each compact space approved herein shall be designated as a compact space
with either signage placed at both ends of a row of compact spaces with one
additional sign for each five spaces over the initial five spaces or painted
letters on pavement of at least 12 inches high and seven inches wide stating
“Compact” for each space. All compact parking spaces shall be approved by the
city and shall be located throughout the required parking lot areas in groups
as to allow appropriate design transition.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.308 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY.
   Off-street parking for persons with disabilities shall be provided in
accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the Uniform
Federal Accessibility Standards. Handicapped parking spaces shall be provided
in off-street parking lots and shall count towards fulfilling the minimum
automobile required parking. The number, location, and identification of
handicapped parking spaces required shall be determined by the most current
Building Code adopted by the city.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.309 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Parking lots with five or more spaces must have a minimum ten foot
wide landscaped strip adjacent to any road right-of-way. Exterior perimeters of
the parking lot shall have a minimum five foot wide landscaping strip.
   (B)   Parking lots within a Commercial or Manufacturing Zone with more than
20 spaces shall have a minimum 5% interior landscaping.
   (C)   All landscaped areas shall consist of live plant materials and be
serviced by a permanent underground sprinkler system.
   (D)   Parking lots of five or more spaces shall provide a solid screening
fence six feet in height when parking lots are adjacent to a existing or
proposed residential use. This solid barrier shall be maintained in good
condition with no advertising thereon.
   (E)   No off-street parking shall be allowed in required landscaped areas.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.310 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking spaces, vehicle
maneuvering areas, or loading/unloading areas must conform to the following
standards.
      (1)   Illumination of driveway access to streets shall at least match any
local public lighting.
      (2)   Light poles shall be set on pillars or placed in landscaped areas
to minimize direct contact with vehicles.
      (3)   To reduce light pollution, lighting systems must obscure the lamp
image to direct light where needed.
      (4)   Luminaire mounting height must reasonably match the scale of the
surrounding buildings.
      (5)   Noise created by electromagnetic ballasts shall be kept to a
minimum and must not be noticeable above ambient background levels.
      (6)   Illuminance levels shall conform to the standards outlined in the
table below.
 
Land Use                    Minimum Horizontal Foot- Minimum Vertical Foot-
                            candles                  candles
Commercial                  0.5                      0.25
Residential, institutional, 0.2                      0.1
and industrial
 
      (7)   (a)   Lighting shall be arranged or directed as to reflect the
light away from adjacent properties and to prevent glare for street traffic.
         (b)   The intensity of light at adjoining residential properties shall
not exceed 0.1 foot-candles.
   (B)   Lighting plans submitted for review must include:
      (1)   The location and height of all light poles; and
      (2)   Predicted illumination levels, which are based on maintained
illumination levels just prior to lamp replacement and luminaire cleaning,
within, at and beyond property lines.
   (C)   Designers of lighting plans must consider:
      (1)   Shadow effects of trees, signs, buildings, screen walls, or other
fixed objects; and
      (2)   Illumination of the entire off-street parking area sufficiently to
allow pedestrians and motorists to see potential danger in their peripheral
vision, to promote pedestrian and vehicle safety and to prevent assault, theft,
and vandalism.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.311 SURFACING.
   (A)   All required off-street parking spaces and maneuvering areas shall be
paved and permanently maintained with hard-surfacing. Hard-surfacing materials
shall include concrete, asphalt, brick pavers, and stone.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may allow for exceptions to the requirements
of division (A) above with the following conditions:
      (1)   The proposed use is within the M-D or M-G Zones;
      (2)   The required off-street parking is less than five parking stalls;
and
      (3)   The applicant provides an alternative parking surface that is
dustless and will not track onto the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.312 GRADING.
   Parking lots shall be properly graded to allow for drainage of surface water
in an approved manner as to keeping the parking area free of water and ice.
Drainage plans are to be approved by the City Engineer and Public Works
Department prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.313 USE OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Use of parking areas. Required off-street parking areas shall be used
solely for the parking of licensed, motor vehicles in operating condition.
Required spaces may not be used for the storage of vehicles, Appeal Authority,
motor homes, campers, mobile homes, or building materials.
   (B)   Use of parking areas for temporary events and sales.
      (1)   A portion of a parking lot that allows at least 75% of the
remaining legal parking spaces to be used for parking in conformance with the
standards of this chapter may be set aside for purposes of a temporary event,
such as a tent sale, sidewalk/parking lot sale, or other permitted activity.
These events may not exceed seven consecutive days in length and may not occur
more than once each calendar quarter.
      (2)   (a)   The property owner and operator of the licensed business at
the location are jointly responsible for ensuring that events blocking parking
do not result in unsafe traffic or circulation conditions and ensures that
there is adequate fire and emergency vehicle access.
      (b)   The Police Chief, Fire Chief or their designee may order the event
cancelled and removed without hearing or notice if found that the arrangement
of the temporary event or sale interferes with safe flow of traffic or
emergency vehicle access to a site.
      (3)   The property owner, business licensed at the site, and entity
responsible for the event are jointly responsible for ensuring there is
adequate parking at the event site. The use of public right-of-way for event
parking is prohibited. Parking arrangements may be made for use of adjoining or
nearby parking areas within a 300-foot radius, but a copy of the agreements
shall be in writing and filed with the city staff at least five working days
prior to the event.
   (C)   Long-term vendors located in parking lots.
      (1)   Temporary long-term use of a parking lot for a vendor (including
but not limited to: Christmas trees, fireworks, snow cone sales, ice cream
sales, seasonal food sales) that will be located in the parking lot for more
than seven consecutive days may be permitted by the city staff provided that a
copy of a written agreement for use of the parking area is submitted to the
city prior to the establishment of the use.
      (2)   A site plan showing the location of the facility and an indication
of the total number of existing spaces in the parking lot and parking to be
removed by the vendor shall be submitted to the city staff.
      (3).   Depending on the design of the parking area and location of the
long-term vendor, the city staff may require parking spaces in the area of the
vendor to be re-striped for purposes of providing parking or accommodating safe
traffic flows.
      (4)   In no case shall a long-term vendor be permitted to remove more
than 5% of the subject property’s parking spaces from general usage.
   (D)   Temporary vendors on undeveloped sites. 
      (1)   The use of undeveloped sites for parking or sales by temporary
vendors shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Temporary vendors may utilize undeveloped portions of appropriately
zoned properties provided that the property owner creates an approved right-of-
way access, a paved surface for the area, parking needed by the vendor, and
landscaping.
      (3)   The city staff may approve the design and landscaping for temporary
vending.
   (E)   Shopping cart corrals. 
      (1)   Cart corrals or similar facilities shall not be permitted to
replace required parking.
      (2)   New development shall identify cart corral or collection areas on
the site plan.
   (F)   Garbage dumpster. 
      (1)   Garbage dumpsters shall not be permitted to replace required
parking.
      (2)   The location of garbage dumpsters shall be sited so as not to
interfere with any required off-street parking for a use.
      (3)   New development shall identify the location and access to dumpster
area on the site plan.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.314 STORAGE.
   All areas designated for off-street parking, maneuvering, loading or site
landscaping shall not be used for outdoor storage of materials.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.315 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Where necessary, there shall be provided and maintained adequate space for
loading and unloading services.
   (A)   All loading areas or docks shall be located so that no vehicle shall
be parked, or require maneuvering room within a public street.
   (B)   Each loading facility shall not be less than 45 feet in length and 12
feet in width and shall have an overhead clearance of not less than 14 feet.
   (C)   Sufficient room for turning and maneuvering vehicles shall be provided
on the site.
   (D)   Off-street loading facilities for one use shall not be considered as
providing required off-street loading or parking facilities for any other use.
   (E)   All truck loading spaces shall be separated from adjoining residential
districts by a masonry wall not less than six feet in height.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.330 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The sign regulations are intended to provide standards for the
installation of signs in a manner that will promote the general welfare of the
community. This shall be accomplished by encouraging good harmonious design and
by establishing appropriate size and location requirements. Such regulations
shall allow businesses to identify themselves and the goods or services they
offer, safeguard and enhance property values, and protect the public health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 155.331 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   FREESTANDING SIGNS.
      (1)   ANIMATED SIGN.
         (a)   A sign depicting action, motion, lights, or color change.
         (b)   An ANIMATED SIGN can also feature graphics and illustrations
rather than words.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN.
         (a)   A sign, typically comprised of a liquid crystal diode (LCD),
light-emitting diode (LED), plasma, or other digital illuminated display that
contains one or more messages.
         (b)   An ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN is different from an illuminated sign
in that the illumination of the display creates the message, rather than an
internal or external light source illuminating the message.
         (c)   Diagram example:
      (3)   ILLUMINATED SIGN.
         (a)   A sign with an artificial light source incorporated internally
or externally for the purpose of illuminating the sign; includes signs made
from neon or other gas tube(s) that are bent to form letters, symbols, or other
shapes.
         (b)   An ILLUMINATED SIGN excludes electronic message signs, which are
separately defined.
      (4)   MOBILE SIGN.
         (a)   Any sign designed to be readily moved from one location to
another and which does not rely on a building or fixed foundation for its
structural support.
         (b)   Any sign mounted on a vehicle, trailer, or boat; or fixed or
attached to a device for the purpose of transporting from site to site.
         (c)   This definition includes all vehicles placed or parked for the
purpose of drawing attention to a service, product, object, person,
organization, institution, business, event, location, or message.
         (d)   This definition does not include signs or lettering installed on
vehicles, trailers or boats where the principal use of the vehicle is for the
transportation of people, goods, or other materials for the business.
      (5)   MONUMENT SIGN.
         (a)   A freestanding sign that is detached from a building and has a
support structure that is a solid-appearing base constructed of a permanent
material, such as aluminum, concrete block, or brick.
         (b)   All other freestanding sign types not meeting the definition of
a MONUMENT SIGN shall be either a pole sign or a pylon sign.
         (c)   Diagram example:
      (6)   POLE SIGN.
         (a)   A freestanding sign in excess of six feet in height that is
detached from a building and is supported by one or more structural elements
that are either:
            1.   Architecturally dissimilar to the design of the sign; or
            2.   Less than one-fourth the width of the sign face.
         (b)   Diagram example:
      (7)   PYLON SIGN.
         (a)   A freestanding sign in excess of eight feet in height that is
detached from a building and is supported by one or more structural elements
which are architecturally similar to the design of the sign.
         (b)   Diagram example:
   TEMPORARY PROMOTIONAL SIGNS. Any flag displaying a commercial/promotional
message, pennant, streamer, banner, beacon, bunting material, or other similar
nonpermanent sign made of paper, cloth, canvas, lightweight fabric, or other
nonrigid material, with or without frames, whether displayed as freestanding,
wall-mounted, pole-mounted, window-mounted, or painted, or any other method of
attachment, or beacon, which is intended to be displayed for a limited period
of time.
   TEMPORARY SIGNS.
      (1)   A structure or device used for the public display of visual
messages or images, which is easily installed with or without common hand tools
and which is not intended or suitable for long-term or permanent display (e.g.,
less than 120 days), due to lightweight or flimsy construction materials.
      (2)   Examples include, but are not limited to: A-frame signs, banners,
pennants, streamers, or similar non-permanent signs made of paper, cloth,
canvas, lightweight fabric, or other nonrigid material, with or without frames.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 155.332 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person (whether acting as owner,
occupant, contractor, or otherwise) to erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge,
locate, or alter any sign within the city without first obtaining a permit,
unless this subchapter specifically states that no permit is required for the
specific sign type.
   (B)   No such permit shall be issued until the proposal and application have
been reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.333 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall be vested with the duty of enforcing
these sign regulations.
   (B)   In performance of such duty, the Planning Commission shall be
empowered and directed to issue permits for the construction, alteration, or
repair of signs.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall ascertain that all signs, constructions,
reconstructions, or modifications of existing signs are built or constructed in
conformance with this chapter, building codes, and the specific requirements of
this chapter.
   (D)   Any sign found to be in an unsafe manner shall be ordered to be
removed by the Planning Commission or designee, including the city’s Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall issue a notice of violation to the
person having charge or control or benefit of any sign found to be unsafe or in
violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   (1)   If an unsafe or illegal sign is not repaired, modified, or
removed within ten working days after issuing said notice, the Planning
Commission shall at once abate and remove said sign.
      (2)   The owner, or person having charge or benefit of any such sign,
shall pay to the city, within 30 calendar days after written notice is mailed
to such person, the costs incurred in such removal.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.334 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   (A)   At the time new buildings or developments are presented for site plan
review, proposals for all signs (including any type of pole sign or monument
sign) to be installed on any buildings or premises shall be reviewed and
approved by Planning Commission before any installation.
   (B)   Signs (including any type of pole sign or monument sign) to be added
to existing buildings or uses, or signs that are to be enlarged, changed, or
substantially modified, shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission before any change is made.
   (C)   All off-premises signs (including any type of pole sign or monument
sign), either for new building or developments or for existing buildings, shall
be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission before any installation.
   (D)   All signs (including any type of pole sign or monument sign) shall be
permanently maintained and kept in a safe manner.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.335 REQUIRED DRAWINGS AND INFORMATION.
   All applications for approval shall be accompanied by drawings drawn to
scale and dimensioned, and which illustrate the following:
   (A)   A site plan with dimensioned property lines showing existing and
proposed buildings and parking areas;
   (B)   The site plan shall include lot size, frontage, and setbacks;
   (C)   The site plan shall include the location of all existing or proposed
signs on buildings or premises;
   (D)   Full color elevations of all signs, showing the dimensions and square
foot area, the dimensions of the wall upon which the sign is to be erected, and
the size of any existing signs on the same wall, if any;
   (E)   Height and size of all freestanding signs;
   (F)   Type of sign illumination, if any; and
   (G)   Details of sign construction and attachment.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.336 MEASUREMENT OF SIGNS.
   (A)   In determination of the square footage of signs, the method of
measurement shall be as follows:
      (1)   Sign copy mounted or painted on a background panel or area
distinctively painted, textured, or constructed as a background for the sign
copy.
      (2)   Sign area shall be measured as that area contained within the
outside dimensions of the background panel or surface.
      (3)   Sign copy mounted as individual letters and/or graphics against a
wall or fascia of building or other structure that has not been painted,
textured, or otherwise altered to provide a distinctive background for the sign
copy.
      (4)   Sign area shall be measured as the area enclosed by the smallest
single rectangle that will enclose all sign copy.
      (5)   Sign copy mounted or painted on an illuminated sign or illuminated
architectural element of a building.
      (6)   Sign area shall be measured as the entire illuminated surface or
illuminated architectural element which contains sign copy.
      (7)   A sign having more than one component (e.g., a service station
identification/price sign combination on a monument base) mounted on the same
surface.
      (8)   Sign area shall be the area of the smallest rectangle that will
encompass the several components of the sign.
      (9)   All other permitted signs (except nonresidential district
directional signs assisting in the flow of traffic, street addresses, or signs
necessary for safety (“stop engine,” “no smoking,” and the like) that do not
exceed two square feet in area.
      (10)   Sign area shall include the areas of the sign from edge to edge.
   (B)   In determination of the height of signs, the method of measurement
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Height of freestanding signs: monument, pole, or pylon. The
distance from the top of the sign structure to the top of curb or crown of
roadway where no curb exists;
      (2)   Height of wall signs. The distance from the top of the sign
structure to the top of curb or crown of road where no curb exists; and
      (3)   Height of monument base or other structure erected to support or
ornament the sign. Shall be measured as part of the sign height.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.337 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Signs not specifically authorized are prohibited, including but not limited
to the following:
   (A)   Political signs in public rights-of-way or public property;
   (B)   Signs announcing the proposed development of property prior to site
plan or subdivision approval or after issuance of certificate of occupancy;
   (C)   Signs mounted, attached, or painted on trailers, boats, or motor
vehicles when parked for extended periods of time on or near the premises;
   (D)   Roof signs or any other signs that project above the highest point of
the roof line or parapet of the building;
   (E)   Any sign with intermittent or flashing illumination, animated, or
moving signs (public safety message centers are allowed); or
   (F)   Signs that emit sound.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.338 CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS.
   In all zone districts which require a front yard, no sign shall be placed on
any corner lot within a triangular area in order to maintain a clear view area,
as defined in §
155.085.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.339 CHANGE OF BUSINESS NAME.
   (A)   Whenever the name of a business changes, the signs on the premises
shall be modified to bring them into conformance with these regulations, even
though the intended change is a change of sign copy only.
   (B)   This regulation shall not apply to directory signs designed with
interchangeable letters or panels.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.340 SPECIFIC SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   On-premises signs.
      (1)   In all zoning districts, signs may be erected to advertise the
sale, rent, or lease of property upon which said signs are placed.
         (a)   Signs shall be limited to one sign per street frontage.
         (b)   Signs shall not exceed an area of eight square feet in
Residential Zones or 32 square feet in nonresidential zones.
         (c)   No sign permit shall be required.
      (2)   In a Commercial or Manufacturing Zone, for promotional purposes,
one on-site sign, not exceeding 64 square feet, may be erected in conjunction
with a construction project.
         (a)   All such signs shall be set back at least ten feet from any
public or private right-of-way.
         (b)   No freestanding sign shall exceed 12 feet in height.
         (c)   All signs shall be removed within 30 days after final inspection
of the last building in the project.
         (d)   Signs may utilize external lighting, but they may not be
internally lighted.
         (e)   No sign permit shall be required.
      (3)   In all zoning districts, open house signs advertising real estate
that is open for inspection for a prospective sale may be placed on private
property with the consent of the owner, lessee, or occupant.
         (a)   All such signs must state the name of the person or firm
sponsoring the open house.
         (b)   All such signs shall not exceed eight square feet in area.
         (c)   No sign permit shall be required.
      (4)   Service signs may be erected for the purpose of facilitating or
controlling the efficient or safe movement of pedestrians or vehicles on or
into private property and shall be located on the properties to which they
pertain.
         (a)   All such signs may include incidental identification-type
advertising.
         (b)   All such signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
         (c)   No sign permit shall be required.
      (5)   The following signs, and these signs only, may be placed on-site
and used to promote sales of homes in new subdivisions.
         (a)   For subdivisions which include five or more lots, major
promotional signs, not exceeding one 64 square foot sign for each builder, may
be used.
            1.   The total area of all such signs shall not exceed 128 square
feet.
            2.   Individual phases of a subdivision shall not be considered
separate subdivisions.
 
            3.   No single sign shall exceed 64 square feet.
         (b)   1.   Subdivisions which include five or more lots may attach one
wall sign to one model home for each builder in the subdivision.
            2.   This sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (c)   One stationary open house sign may be used for each model home.
            1.   Such signs may state the name of the builder, purchase terms,
and/or the hours when the model will be open, among other things.
            2.   This sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
         (d)   Off-site promotional signs may be used as specified in §
155.340(A)(2).
         (e)   All subdivision signs shall be set back a minimum of five feet
from any public or private right-of-way.
         (f)   Flag poles may be located within one foot of property lines.
         (g)   No freestanding sign shall exceed 12 feet in height.
         (h)   Signs may utilize external lighting but shall not be internally
lighted.
         (i)   All signs shall be removed within 30 days after final inspection
of the last home in the subdivision.
         (j)   Mobile signs are prohibited.
   (B)   Off-premises signs.
      (1)   In Residential Zones, a maximum of two development or promotional
signs may be placed off-site.
         (a)   All such signs shall have a maximum area of 32 square feet.
         (b)   All such signs shall be set back ten feet from the right-of-way
of any public street and, therefore, require a letter of consent from the
property owner.
         (c)   A minimum spacing of 50 feet shall be maintained between all
such signs.
         (d)   All signs shall be removed no later than 30 days following the
completion of the project.
      (2)   Political signs relating to the nomination or election of any
individual for public office or advocacy of any issue to be voted upon at any
special or general election shall be allowed under the following conditions.
         (a)   Any such sign shall be temporary in nature and shall be removed
within 15 days after the date of the election.
            1.   If said signs are not removed, the city may remove said signs
and charge a reasonable fee, as determined by the City Council, based on actual
costs of removal for each sign requiring removal.
            2.   The bill shall be sent to the appropriate candidate or
political association responsible for such sign(s).
         (b)   Any such sign to be placed within a Residential Zone shall not
exceed an area of eight square feet.
         (c)   Such signs shall not be permitted in the public right-of-way or
on city property.
         (d)   Such signs shall not be permitted on utility poles or structures
or in utility rights-of way.
   (C)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs shall conform to the provisions listed in this
section.
      (2)   Temporary signs shall be limited to no more than 30 days.
      (3)   No temporary signs, banners, bunting, and the like, shall be
allowed within 20 feet of any property line. Non-business-oriented banners
whose sole intent is to promote festivals, holidays, seasons, or other
community events are excluded from the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Inflatable and mechanical signs such as televisions, gorillas,
dinosaurs, and the like, shall not be allowed in the landscaping (which
includes flower beds or lawn) or within 20 feet of the property line, whichever
is greater. The height of the balloon or inflatable shall not exceed the
distance to the closest property line, or the nearest above ground utility line
measured from where the item is anchored.
      (5)   Streamers or pennant-type streamers shall not be allowed within the
required 20-foot setbacks.
      (6)   In all Commercial Zones, commercial vehicles with signs larger than
four square feet shall not be parked within 40 feet of any property line
adjacent to a public street. Such vehicles shall not be used as parked or
stationary outdoor display signs.
      (7)   Home occupation off-premises temporary signs are prohibited.
      (8)   Commercial off-premises temporary signs are prohibited.
   (D)   Monument signs. Monument signs shall be allowed in conformity with the
following provisions.
      (1)   Monument “on-premises” signs will be allowed in all Commercial and
Industrial/Manufacturing Zones.
      (2)   For signs less than or equal to five feet in height measured from
curb or crown of road, a minimum setback from the public right-of-way of five
feet is required.
      (3)   For signs greater than five feet in height, a setback equal to the
sign’s height is required, unless this requirement is specifically waived by
the Planning Commission through the issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (4)   Signs shall be incorporated into a landscape design scheme or
planter box equal to at least twice the area of the sign unless little
flexibility exists on the site and a waiver is granted by the city staff or
designee. The landscaping shall have a slope no greater than one to four and
the overall height of berm or planter box shall not exceed three feet.
      (5)   Signs shall generally maintain a 100 foot separation from all other
signs and 50 feet from the side and rear property lines that are not adjacent
to a public right-of-way. In situations with minimal frontages where little
flexibility in sign placement exists, less stringent standards may apply as
determined by the city staff or designee.
      (6)   Signs shall be limited to 50 square feet in area for signs up to
five feet in height and an additional ten square feet of area may be added for
every additional foot in height over five feet.
      (7)   Signs shall be limited to one monument sign per 200 feet of
frontage.
      (8)   Signs shall contain no animation.
      (9)   Signs shall be processed as permitted uses for signs equal to or
under ten feet in height and as conditional uses for signs over ten feet in
height, unless specifically limited by the appropriate zone.
      (10)   The sign base of monument signs shall be equal to or greater in
size than the width of the sign face.
   (E)   Billboards.
      (1)   A billboard is an off-site advertising sign (usually 12 feet by 25
feet) along an interstate highway, state highway, or city street.
      (2)   Billboards are prohibited in all zoning districts.
   (F)   Pole signs.
      (1)   The maximum height of a pole sign shall be 35 feet above the top of
curb, or crown of roadway where no curb exists.
      (2)   Clearance shall be a minimum of ten feet between the bottom of the
sign face and the ground where vehicular or pedestrian traffic is anticipated.
      (3)   No part of a pole sign can be closer than five feet off of the
current or future right-of-way.
         (a)   The sign setback shall be measured from the future right-of-way
line. (See the city’s Transportation Plan.)
         (b)   In situations where inadequate front yard setbacks exist due to
existing building location and a property owner wishes to place a new sign in
the future right-of-way, the property/sign owner must sign a recorded statement
or delay agreement for voluntary relocation at their expense when the road is
widened.
      (4)   All pole signs shall be placed in a landscaped area at least equal
to twice the area of the sign and be architecturally compatible with the
building style, colors, and/or materials.
      (5)   The maximum pole sign area shall be 200 square feet.
      (6)   All pole signs shall be processed as a conditional use permit.
         (a)   Interior lots may have one pole sign subject to the provisions
of this subchapter.
         (b)   Corner or double-frontage lots/commercial complexes may choose
two on-premises signs (one per frontage) and one off-premises sign, if so
desired.
         (c)   Freeway-oriented pole signs shall not have a requirement
regarding a minimum property size to be granted.
      (7)   Pole signs shall have the illumination limits from dusk to dawn as
follows, from the bottom of sign to top of lighting feature:
 
Height (feet) Maximum Lumens Per Side
6'            1,000
8'            1,400
10'           1,800
12'           2,200
Over 12'      Add 100 lumens per foot to a maximum of 4,000 lumens
 
   (G)   Freeway-oriented pole signs.
      (1)   Only one freeway-oriented pole sign is allowed per commercial lot.
      (2)   The maximum height of a freeway-oriented pole sign shall be 100
feet above the average of the grade of the property that the sign sits on.
      (3)   The maximum sign area of a freeway-oriented pole sign may be up to
1,000 square feet.
      (4)   A business applying for a freeway-oriented pole sign must have
freeway frontage or access to freeway frontage, which can be leased property,
to be eligible for this type of pole sign. Freeway frontage includes property
that borders on or off-ramps.
      (5)   A freeway-oriented pole sign is not required to be placed in a
landscaped area.
      (6)   A freeway-oriented pole sign is not required to have a minimum
amount of property to be granted a conditional use permit.
      (7).   All other provisions regarding pole signs in §
155.340(A)(6) shall apply.
   (H)   Pylon signs.
      (1)   All pylon signs shall be processed as conditional use permits.
      (2)   The size, height, and dimensions of a pylon sign shall be presented
to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may deny a request for conditional use
permit for a pylon sign based on specific findings. A basis for denial may be
(which is not a complete list but examples only) location of business,
neighborhood aesthetics, surrounding businesses, or what has been awarded to
other similar businesses.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
§ 155.341 SIGN REQUIREMENTS BY ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Residential and Agricultural Zoning Districts. Signs in this district
are subject to all general regulations set forth in this subchapter and to the
following additional requirements.
      (1)   Only the following signs are allowed in residential and
agricultural zoning districts:
         (a)   Name plates;
         (b)   Public necessity signs;
         (c)   Property signs;
         (d)   Monument signs under six feet in height;
         (e)   Identification signs;
         (f)   Service signs;
         (g)   Conditional use signs;
         (h)   Development promotional, and off-site directional signs;
         (i)   Political signs; and
         (j)   Temporary on-site or off-site signs.
      (2)   These signs shall conform to the following provisions:
         (a)   One non-illuminated nameplate for each dwelling unit, not
exceeding two square feet in area, indicating the name of the occupant and/or
an approved home occupation;
         (b)   One or more public necessity signs not exceeding 24 square feet
in combined total area for each commercial or residential use lawfully
occupying the premises, provided that no one sign shall exceed eight square
feet in area;
         (c)   Monument signs, as described in §
155.339, for uses other than home occupations; and/or
         (d)   One or more service signs not exceeding 16 square feet in area
per sign for each residential or agricultural business use lawfully occupying
the premises.
   (B)   Commercial, Industrial, and Manufacturing Zoning Districts. Signs in
this district are subject to all general regulations set forth in this
subchapter and to the following additional requirements:
      (1)   The following signs are allowed in these zoning districts:
         (a)   All signs allowed in Residential Zoning Districts as specified
in this subchapter;
         (b)   On-premises signs as specified in §
155.340, pylon signs, pole signs, and monument signs as described in §
155.340;
         (c)   Electronic public safety message sign displays shall be allowed;
         (d)   Painted signs on walls of buildings are permitted with approved
professionally prepared designs;
         (e)   Pole signs;
         (f)   Freeway-oriented pole signs; and
         (g)    1.   Maximum size regulations of all allowed signs may be
exceeded upon request with Planning Commission approval.
            2.   However, Planning Commission shall make specific findings on
the record regarding the variance in the size regulations.
      (2)   Miscellaneous sign provisions.
         (a)   All signs in the Commercial, Industrial, and Manufacturing
Zoning Districts shall measure their setback from the existing right-of-way or
future right-of-way. (See city’s Transportation Plan.)
         (b)   A business may apply for a conditional use permit to have more
than one type of sign for their business.
            1.   The business must provide a detailed explanation regarding
number of signs, size, and necessity for the different types of signs.
            2.   The Planning Commission may make a finding that only one sign
is necessary.
            3.   A basis for denial for multiple signs may be (which is not a
complete list but examples only) location of business, neighborhood aesthetics,
surrounding businesses, or what has been awarded to other similar businesses.
         (c)   Signs on multi-story buildings shall maintain consistent style
and architectural compatibility with the building.
         (d)   1.   The area limitation for signs on the face of a building or
structure shall be 10% of the front first (defined as the actual first story
height or 15 feet, whichever is less) story face and 5% of any other first
story face.
            2.   Fifteen percent of the front first story face may be allowed
if no pole signs are requested.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2021)
NATURAL RESOURCE EXTRACTION
§ 155.355 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to establish reasonable and uniform
limitations, safeguards, and controls on excavation within the city. These
provisions are deemed necessary in the public interest to affect practices
which will for the economical use of vital materials necessary for our economy,
and give due consideration to the present and future use of land in the
interest of promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
residents of the city.
   (B)   Any necessary alterations to the surface of land within the city which
involves excavation should be done in such a way as to minimize undesirable
effects on surrounding or adjacent land.
   (C)   Excavated land shall be reclaimed and rehabilitated so as to prevent
conditions detrimental to the general health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the city and to provide for the subsequent use of the excavated
land.
   (D)   Reclamation and rehabilitation requirements must be adapted to the
diversity of the topography, biologic, geologic, economic, and social
conditions of the area where the excavation takes place.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 155.356 EXCAVATION CONDITION USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No excavation shall be permitted on any land in the city unless authorized
under a conditional use permit issued to the owner and/or operator of the
property in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
155.106, except for where a nonconforming excavation use is legally proven to
have been established or is accepted by city officials as having been
established.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.357 INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION.
   In order to ensure that the area of the proposed excavation is reasonable
for that purpose and to ensure rehabilitation of the land area to a state that
enables meaningful use, ensures public safety and maintains or restores
acceptable aesthetic conditions, the owner or operator shall, prior to
commencement of any phase of operation, submit to the city’s Planning
Commission, as part of the conditional use permit application procedure, an
excavation and rehabilitation plan which addresses the following.
   (A)   General information. The following shall be provided: the name of the
property owner(s), lessee(s), operator(s), agent for service of process or
notice(s), address and/or location of property, and legal description.
   (B)   Pre-excavation and site inventory and analysis. A pre-excavation and
site inventory and analysis, both off-site and on-site, shall be performed by
the applicant containing the following information:
      (1)   A vicinity analysis describing other land uses surrounding the
site, the possible impacts of the proposed excavation on adjacent properties
and the methods to be employed to mitigate any potentially negative effects;
      (2)   A description of the haulage routes to be employed on public and
private roads;
      (3)   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the Planning
Commission;
      (4)   A topographic map of the area (at a scale of one inch equals 200
feet) to a maximum contour interval of five feet and extending at least 500
feet beyond the proposed excavation site;
      (5)   A description of the visual characteristics, with particular
concern given to the use of natural topography and vegetation, to shield on-
site operations from nearby properties, roadways, and the general public;
      (6)   A soils survey, to include a soils profile; and
      (7)   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Excavation operations plan. The application shall provide an
excavation operations plan which describes the following:
      (1)   Proposed starting date, the anticipated period of operation and
anticipated days of the week and hours of the day for operations;
      (2)   Planned phases of excavation;
      (3)   Anticipated amount of material to be removed during each phase;
      (4)   Number, type, and kinds of machinery and equipment to be used;
      (5)   Operational processes, including crushing, stockpiling, top soil
retention, milling, and the like;
      (6)   The water to be used in operations, its source, control, and
disposal;
      (7)   Electrical power requirements and source;
      (8)   Accessory facilities, such as scales and buildings;
      (9)   Sanitary facilities and disposal system;
      (10)   A description of techniques used to control dust and noise;
      (11)   Transportation routes on- and off-site;
      (12)   Run-off water control and detention;
      (13)   Depiction of phases and location of all facilities, stockpiles,
transportation routes, detention basin(s), and water and power sources on the
topographic map referred to above or other suitable map;
      (14)   Any economic or adverse effects on the surrounding area and steps
taken to mitigate their impact, such as dust, lights, vibration control, and
noise abatement;
      (15)   Detailed analysis and description of noise levels (expressed in
decibels) expected from proposed operation;
      (16)   Cross-sections showing existing surfaces versus proposed
excavation at 100-foot intervals across the site. Cross-sections should be
drawn parallel to slope;
      (17)   To the extent not already shown, how the operations will comply
with the requirements of §
155.358;
      (18)   Operator’s safety plan; and
      (19)   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Rehabilitation plan. The applicant shall provide a rehabilitation plan
with the use of maps, imagery, and renderings (at a scale of one inch equals
200 feet) extending 500 feet beyond the legal description of the site area with
a maximum contour interval of five feet which includes at least the following:
      (1)   A grading plan drawn and certified by a licensed engineer or land
surveyor indicating the areas to be excavated and the proposed finished grades,
stormwater drainage patterns, and mapped FIRM floodplain;
      (2)   A description of the methods and plans to be used rehabilitation of
the site during and after the excavation operations;
      (3)   A description of the landscape plan to include the replacement of
topsoil, planting schedule, specifications for plant applications, mulching,
plant materials, and type of irrigation to be used;
      (4)    A description of the hydrologic environment of the rehabilitated
site to include a map illustrating water drainage areas such as lakes, springs,
ponds, streams, wells, pipelines, culverts, ditches, canals, sloughs, and the
like;
      (5)   A description and site plan of all permanent roads and other human-
made structures which are to remain after rehabilitation;
      (6)   Cross-sections shall be taken in the excavation site in areas of
greatest material displacement. The number of cross-sections required shall be
dependent on the size and topography of the excavation site;
      (7)   To the extent not already shown, compliance with §
155.363;
      (8)   Evidence of surety; and
      (9)   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the Planning
Commission.
   (E)   Addendum. Final conditions or limitations imposed by the Planning
Commission are to be completed prior to final issuance of the conditional use
permit.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.358 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All excavation operations are subject to the following limitations,
restrictions, and controls.
   (A)   Dust, noise, vibration, smoke, lights, and odor. All equipment and
machinery used on the site and in transportation of products shall be
constructed, maintained, and operated in such a manner as to minimize the
impact of dust, noise, vibration, smoke, welding lights and other lights, odor,
and all other negative or undesirable impacts on adjacent and surrounding
properties. Soil berming, landscaping, and other techniques shall be used to
accomplish the objective of reducing the impact of smoke, odor, lights, noise
and vibration on adjacent property, and to control loose dirt and dust such
that it remains on the operation site. All state and federal emission
guidelines and regulations must be adhered to. Access and haulage roads shall
be maintained in a dust-free condition by surfacing or other treatment as
approved by the city’s Road Department and fugitive dust shall be controlled in
all operational areas of the excavation site.
   (B)   Operation boundaries. To protect neighboring residents and properties
from the potentially adverse effects of dust, noise, vibration, smoke, welding
and other lights, odors, soil erosion, and all other negative or undesirable
impacts, all excavation operations are prohibited within 200 feet of an
adjacent residential property or a subdivision or within 50 feet of a public
highway or street, except for accessory roads. Rock crushing operations shall
not be conducted within 600 feet of adjacent properties with a residence, if
allowed at all.
   (C)   Fencing and barriers. Fencing or other suitable barriers shall be
created and maintained on or around the boundary of the excavation site or on
or around portions of the site where such fencing is practicable and necessary
because of dangerous conditions, whether existing or created by the excavation,
as determined by the Planning Commission. Fencing or barriers may also be
required, at the option of the Planning Commission, to provide screening of the
excavation operation from public view and to enhance the general aesthetics of
the area. Fencing, monuments, or other means of identification shall be placed
and maintained around the perimeter of the excavation site so as to enable
reasonable identification of the property line separating the excavation
property from adjacent properties.
   (D)   Landscaping. The planting of trees, shrubs, or other appropriate
landscaping, or the placement of berms or structures, shall be required where
natural conditions make such feasible and practical in order to provide a dust
and/or sound barrier to screen excavation from public view, to enhance the
general appearance, and to minimize the damaging effect of such operations to
the aesthetics and character of the surrounding area. Vegetative material shall
be planted together with necessary topsoil as per a schedule approved in the
granting of the conditional use permit, and shall be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition.
   (E)   Washing operations. The washing of sand and gravel, when permitted,
shall be done so as to prevent the discharge of waste water directly into an
adjacent open waterway onto any public or private roads or onto any private
property without the written consent of the property owner or jurisdictions.
   (F)   Run-off water detention. The operator or owner shall, on determination
by the city zoning staff, be required to construct run-off water detention
facilities to prevent damage to neighboring property and structures and for
protection of the residents and property below the site. A Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be prepared and submitted in accordance
with the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) requirements,
and all necessary federal, state, and local permits shall be obtained.
   (G)   Truck washing and covering. Prior to entry onto asphalt roadways from
dirt surfaces, truck tires shall be washed or otherwise cleaned to remove dust,
soil, mud, gravel, and all other debris, and trucks shall be covered to prevent
contamination of public roadways by the depositing of dust, mud, soil, gravel,
and all other debris on any public roadway.
   (H)   Load limits. All trucks, equipment, and machinery operating on public
roadways shall comply strictly with city and state road limitations setting
forth allowable vehicle weight limits, heights, and lengths, and all vehicles
must meet state safety requirements, and, where necessary, flagging and other
traffic controls shall be implemented to preserve public safety.
   (I)   Hours of operation. Excavation operations and/or for the transport of
materials to and from the site, except for the maintenance and repair of
vehicles and equipment, which does not have a negative or unacceptable impact
on surrounding or adjacent property owners, shall take place between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on any day, except as provided herein. No truck used
in hauling operations will be allowed into the site before the specified time
or permitted to leave the site loaded with materials from the site after the
specified time. The Planning Commission may modify the hours of operation for
any excavation area based on findings of fact. No excavation operations shall
take place on Sundays or on any legal city, state or federal holidays. During
periods of national, state, or local emergency or to ensure safety of citizens,
the time and hours of operation may be altered at the discretion of the
Planning Commission.
   (J)   Restricted or related manufacturing operations. The manufacture of
concrete building blocks or other similar blocks, the production or manufacture
of lime products, the production of ready-mixed concrete, the production of
asphalt mixes, rock crushing and screening operations, and any similar
production or manufacturing processes that might be related to the excavation
operation shall not be permitted, except as otherwise provided in the city
zoning code and except where a nonconforming use related to one or more of the
referenced activities is legally proven to have been established or is accepted
by city officials as having been established.
   (K)   Permits and compliance with laws. Compliance with all federal, state,
and local laws relating to excavation operations shall be achieved and
maintained and all required permits obtained, including a business license from
the city.
   (L)   Cessation of operations. Within one year after the cessation of
operations, all temporary structures (except fences), equipment, rock piles,
rubble heaps, or other debris shall be removed or back-filled into the
excavation so as to leave the site in neat and orderly condition as determined
by the city zoning staff and as provided below. This includes the
rehabilitation and revegetation of all excavated areas as outlined in §
155.362.
   (M)   Blasting. Any excavation by blasting shall only be allowed by separate
application to and approval by the Planning Commission, after a public hearing
for which prior notice was given.
   (N)   Safety of operations. Any excavation operation shall be conducted in a
safe manner. To protect against collapse, cuts, banks, and any other open
slopes on the premises shall not be left past the end of a working day, or left
unattended when such slopes are more steep than one to one (1:1). The city
zoning staff may require less steep slopes of any operation if he, she, or they
determines that, due to the angle of repose for the type of the soils being
excavated, a less steep slope ought to be maintained to ensure proper safety.
Other applicable state and federal occupational health and safety requirements
must also be met. The owner of the land, as well as any contractor conducting
the excavation operation shall be jointly responsible for compliance with
safety requirements.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.359 REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Any conditional use permit issued shall be subject to revocation or
modification by the Planning Commission as set forth in §
155.111.
   (B)   Modification of the conditional use permit plans. Modification of the
conditional use permit plans may be initiated either by the Planning Commission
or by the permittee where minor revisions are sought for any portion of the
approved permit.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.360 TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR OPERATOR.
   Whenever an owner/operator succeeds to the interest of another owner/
operator by sale, assignment, lease, or other means, the Planning Commission
may release the first owner/operator from his, her, or their responsibilities
under his, her, or their approved plans as described above, including surety,
provided the successor owner/operator assumes all of the responsibilities of
the former owner/operator to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission under
the approved conditional use permit and the posting of surety. Upon
satisfactory assumption of such responsibilities by the successor owner/
operator, under conditions approved by the Planning Commission, the
responsibility of the total excavation site and permit shall be transferred to
the successor owner/operator. Any owner/operator succeeding to the interest of
another owner/operator by sale, assignment, lease or other means, in a legally
existing non-conforming use as referenced in §
155.356, above, shall enjoy the same privileges and be bound by the same
restrictions as the transferring owner/operator.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 155.361 FILING OF AN ANNUAL PROGRESS REPORT.
   At the end of each calendar year, unless waived by the Planning Commission
for due cause, each operator conducting excavation operations shall file an
operations and progress report with the Planning Commission. The report will
summarize activities in fulfillment of the requirements of excavation and
rehabilitation in conformance with the rehabilitation plan previously
submitted.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 155.362 REHABILITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to ensure that the excavated area shall be rehabilitated to a
condition of practical usefulness and reasonable physical attractiveness within
a reasonable amount of time, to prevent environmental degradation to the
ecologic and hydrologic regimes caused by excavation, and to prevent present
and future hazards to public safety and welfare, all owners and/or operators of
excavation operations shall adhere to a rehabilitation plan approved by the
Planning Commission, which shall include the following, except for items which
are, for due cause, waived or modified by the Planning Commission as being
unnecessary for a particular excavation site.
   (A)   Progressive rehabilitation. The owner and/or operator shall, at the
option of the Planning Commission, submit a plan for progressive
rehabilitation, meaning that rehabilitation will commence and be carried on
during excavation operations. When the excavation of an area of two acres or
less is completed per the excavation plan, that area shall be rehabilitated.
Rehabilitation shall proceed as soon as practicable after completion of the
excavation of a phase, or site if there are no phases, as set forth in the
approved excavation and rehabilitation plan, or as determined by the city’s
zoning staff.
   (B)   Backfilling. Where back-filling is required, the excavated area shall
be graded and backfilled with uncontaminated native materials or topsoil only.
This backfill must be of such material as to support vegetation and grass
growth. The graded or back-filled area shall not be contoured so that it will
collect and permit stagnant water to remain thereon. Peaks and depressions in
the excavation area shall be reduced to a surface which will result in level or
gently sloping topography in substantial conformity to the land area
immediately surrounding the excavation site and which will minimize the
possibility of erosion. In rehabilitation involving material that is of loose
or friable nature, no slope shall be left that exceeds 30 degrees or the normal
angle of repose of the material involved, whichever is less.
   (C)   Grading, stockpiling, seeding, phases, and the like. Excavations shall
be planned so as to progressively develop the proposed final land forms by
grading and by stockpiling topsoil and overburdened materials in areas
designated for future land forms or in excavations where the material will be
spread over the excavation floor where no future excavation is anticipated.
Such areas are to be covered with topsoil, seeded and planted immediately after
grading is completed or within appropriate planting seasons, but in any case,
the grading and planting shall be complete within one year. The rehabilitation
plan shall contain a description of the phased rehabilitation process
throughout the anticipated life of the excavation.
   (D)   Final rehabilitation. Final rehabilitation shall begin immediately for
any site where operations authorized under a conditional use permit or a legal
nonconforming use as referenced in §
155.356 have ceased for a period of at least 18 months, or otherwise
terminated. The final rehabilitation shall conform to the plan approved
(including approved modifications) in the conditional use permit. All
rehabilitation plans shall conform at least to the below listed minimum
standards and other requirements listed elsewhere in this subchapter as
reasonably determined by the Planning Commission; provided, however, that the
Planning Commission may require more stringent standards where special hazards
exist in order to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public
and to prevent injury to adjacent property or improvements.
      (1)   Grading. Slopes, overburdened stockpiles, and abandoned soil piles
shall be graded and smoothed so as to control erosion and prevent the creation
of potentially dangerous areas in accordance with the direction of the city’s
zoning staff.
      (2)   Water-filled areas. All excavations which create standing water or
ponds shall be filled with native materials. This requirement shall not apply,
however, to any water-filled excavations scheduled to become an integral part
of the final rehabilitation plan. The rehabilitation of these areas shall be
done in such a manner that the groundwater is not polluted. Fill material shall
be porous to allow for water dispersion unless otherwise specified in the
rehabilitation plan.
      (3)   Landscaping. The excavated areas and all other disturbed areas
shall be replanted and maintained with trees, shrubs, grasses, or other
vegetative ground cover, preferably native to the area, in order to minimize
erosion and to restore the land to a natural appearance.
      (4)   Removal of buildings and equipment. As soon as excavation has been
permanently terminated, all buildings and equipment (including electrical
conduits) used in the administration of the operations shall be removed unless
deemed necessary to the approved final use of the rehabilitated site.
      (5)   Rehabilitation project. In the final year of excavation, the mining
operation may, as part of the rehabilitation project, excavate closer than 200
feet to any property lines, but only upon a showing of compelling mutual good
and the approval of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Rehabilitation verification. At the conclusion of excavation
operations and rehabilitation of the excavation site, the city zoning staff
shall present a statement to the Planning Commission verifying the permit area
or nonconforming excavation area has been rehabilitated in compliance with the
requirements of the excavation ordinance and excavation and rehabilitation plan
previously submitted in compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.363 PROVISION OF SURETY.
   (A)   Provision of surety before operations begin. After receiving
notification that the application for a conditional use permit has been
approved, but prior to commencement of such operation, the operator shall
provide surety to the city, in a form and amount sufficient to secure the
performance of the rehabilitation agreement.
   (B)   Amount of surety. In determining the amount of surety to be provided,
the city shall consider factual information as to the magnitude, type, and
costs of approved rehabilitation activities planned for the land affected and
the nature, extent, and duration of operations under the excavation and
rehabilitation plan. The city shall determine the amount of the surety
reasonably related thereto, to protect the city and ensure compliance with the
requirements of the conditional use permit; however, the amount of the surety
shall not exceed 125% of the estimated cost of rehabilitating the excavation.
The surety shall be periodically reviewed to ensure that the amount of the
surety is capable of insuring adequate rehabilitation.
   (C)   Form of surety. In determining the form of surety to be provided, the
City Council shall approve a method that is consistent with the requirements of
this subchapter, which may be one or a combination of corporate surety bond,
land, cash, letter of credit or other deposited securities to which the city
shall have immediate access in the event the owner/operator fails to or refuses
to carry out and complete the necessary and required rehabilitation.
   (D)   Releases of surety. The liability under surety provisions shall
continue until such time as released as to part, or in its entirety, by the
City Council upon completion of the required rehabilitation. Partial releases
may be allowed within the discretion of the City Council.
   (E)   Forfeiture of surety. If the owner/operator fails to or refuses to
carry out the necessary land rehabilitation as outlined in the approved
excavation and rehabilitation plans, the city may, after notice and hearing,
declare any surety filed for this purpose forfeited, or in case of a corporate
bond file suit against the owner or operator and his, her, or their bonding
company. The city shall also have the right to file suit against the defaulting
permittee for violations of this subchapter or any permit granted, or for costs
of rehabilitation and reasonable attorney fees. The city may also cause the
required rehabilitation to be completed and be reimbursed or pay for such work
out of the surety that was provided.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.364 OPERATION REDUCTION IN DISTANCE PERMITTED.
   Relating to existing operations, where a nonconforming excavation use is
legally proven to have been established or is accepted by city officials as
having been established, the Planning Commission may, consistent with the
intent of these regulations and where the character of the terrain, the nature
of land ownership, the character of surrounding development, or other special
conditions would justify such modification, permit a reduction in the required
operation boundaries as stipulated in §
155.358(B) so as not to impose unreasonable requirements; however, in no case
shall the required distances for any excavation or accessory structure be less
than 50 feet from the boundary of a parcel or lot with a residential use.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.365 INSPECTION AND STOP WORK ORDERS.
   It shall be the duty of the city staff to inspect or cause to be inspected
at regular intervals, as often as necessary, all excavations. Where it is
determined by the city staff that any excavation operation is not proceeding in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, the city staff may order, or
cause to be ordered, the work on the excavation operation stopped by notice in
writing served on any person engaged in working or causing such work to be
done, on the excavation operation, and all persons shall forthwith stop such
work until the excavation operation is brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter the city staff authorizes the excavation operation
to proceed. In addition, the zoning staff may also pursue appropriate legal
action in the courts. Failure to implement administrative or legal action shall
not legalize any violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-005, passed 8-12-2008)
RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS AND
PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY
§ 155.380 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Comply with UCA §§ 10-9a-516 through 10-9a-520; and
   (B)   Avoid discrimination in housing against persons with disabilities
pursuant to the state’s Fair Housing Act and the Federal Fair Housing Act as
interpreted by courts whose decisions are binding in the state.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.381 SCOPE.
   If any facility, residence, congregate living or other housing arrangement
meets the definition of a residential facility for elderly persons or a
residential facility for persons with a disability as set forth in this
chapter, the requirements of this subchapter shall govern the same
notwithstanding any conflicting provision of this chapter or the city code.
Except as provided herein, the requirements of this subchapter shall not be
construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, the
city code or other laws.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.382 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this
chapter, a residential facility for elderly persons and a residential facility
for persons with a disability shall be permitted uses in any zone where a
dwelling is allowed as a permitted or conditional use subject to the
development standards in §
155.383.
   (B)   Termination. A use permitted by this subchapter is nontransferable and
shall terminate if:
      (1)   The facility is devoted to a use other than a residential facility
for elderly persons or a residential facility for persons with a disability;
      (2)   Any license or certification issued by the state’s Department of
Health or the Department of Human Services for such facility terminates or is
revoked; or
      (3)   The facility fails to comply with requirements set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.383 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any
residential facility for elderly persons or residential facility for persons
with a disability.
   (A)   Building, safety, and health regulations. The facility shall comply
with building, safety, and health regulations applicable to similar structures.
      (1)   Each facility shall be subject to the same development standards
applicable to similar structures located in the same zoning district in which
the facility is located.
      (2)   The minimum number of parking spaces required for a facility shall
be the same as for similar structures located in the same zoning district in
which the facility is located.
   (B)   No dangerous persons permitted. No facility shall be made available to
an individual whose tendency would:
      (1)   Constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals; or
      (2)   Result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
   (C)   License and certification. Prior to occupancy of any facility, the
person or entity operating the facility shall:
      (1)   Provide to the city a copy of any license or certification required
by the state’s Department of Health or the state’s Department of Human
Services; and
      (2)   Certify in a sworn statement that no person will reside or remain
in the facility whose tendency would:
         (a)   Constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals; or
         (b)   Result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.384 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Reasonable accommodation required. None of the requirements of this
subchapter shall be interpreted to limit any reasonable accommodation necessary
to allow the establishment or occupancy of a residential facility for persons
with a disability.
   (B)   Application. Any person or entity wanting a reasonable accommodation
shall make application therefore to the Planning Commission and shall
articulate in writing the nature of the required accommodation and the basis
for the request.
   (C)   Decision. The Planning Commission shall render a decision on each
application for a reasonable accommodation within 30 days of its receipt.
   (D)   Appeal. If a reasonable accommodation request is denied, the decision
may be appealed to the Appeal Authority in the manner provided for appeals of
administrative decisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS
§ 155.395 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage the majority of business
activities to be conducted within appropriate Commercial Zones. Business
activities may be conducted within a residence on a limited basis if such
activities comply with standards of this section. All home occupations shall be
secondary and incidental to the residential use. The use should be conducted so
that neighbors, under normal conditions, would not be aware of its existence.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.396 MINOR HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   A MINOR HOME OCCUPATION is an activity carried out for gain by a
resident and conducted entirely within the residents home as a incidental use.
   (B)   A minor home occupation shall not be allowed unless it meets the
following standards.
      (1)   A home occupation shall not be permitted that changes the outside
appearance of the dwelling.
      (2)   The home occupation may include the sale of commodities, however,
the direct sales from display shelves are not allowed at the dwelling and
products should be delivered to customers. Retail sales of products and
services are allowed at the home with a maximum of two customers per hour.
      (3)   The area of the home devoted to the home occupation and/or storage
of stock in trade shall not occupy more than 50%of the area of any one floor.
      (4)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of any yard space or
activity outside of the residence, except where the use or activity is of the
type that is customarily found with a residential use and where said use or
activity does not adversely impact the residential nature of the neighborhood.
Open storage in and storage or use of a garage is not allowed except for
appropriate vehicle storage.
      (5)   Advertising signs shall conform to §§
155.330 through
155.341 and shall be attached to the dwelling, except for minimum mailbox
identification. Window displays or exterior evidence, is not allowed, except
for signage limited to a non-illuminated identification sign six square feet or
less in size advertising the home occupation.
      (6)   Off-street parking for the residents must be preserved in addition
to any commercial vehicles used for the home occupation.
      (7)   The home occupation shall not allow employees coming to the home
other than those living in the dwelling.
      (8)   The home occupation shall not produce traffic volumes exceeding
that produced by the dwelling unit by more than ten average daily trips or a
maximum of 20 trips during any 24-hour period.
      (9)   Explosive or combustible materials shall not be stored for a home
occupation. The home occupation shall not unreasonably disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood including, but not limited to, interference of radio,
television, or other electronic reception by reason of design, materials,
construction, lighting, odor, dust, sounds, noise, vibrations, vehicles,
parking, and general operation of the business.
      (10)   Promotional meetings for the purpose of selling merchandise or
taking orders shall not be held more than once per month.
      (11)   Garage, basement, yard or other similar sales shall not be allowed
more than four times each year, and each sale shall not last more than 72
hours.
      (12)   All home occupation shall be conducted only between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (13)   There shall be complete conformity with all federal, state, and
county codes and regulations, including business license regulations. Periodic
inspections, as required by these codes, will be made as required by the type
of home occupation.
      (14)   Home occupation licenses may be reviewed and revoked upon valid
unresolved complaint. Inspections by the county may occur as necessary to
assure conformance with these regulations.
      (15)   Persons can obtain a waiver through the zoning administrator to
allow such persons to become self-sufficient.
      (16)   Home occupations which meet the above standards shall be defined
as minor home occupations. Permitted minor home occupations include, but are
not necessarily limited to, the following:
         (a)   Artist, authors, architectural services;
         (b)   Barber shops and beauty shops;
         (c)   Consulting services, craft sales;
         (d)   Dance studio, aerobic exercise, music lessons, tutoring and
general educational instruction, provided the number of students is limited to
two at a time;
         (e)   Direct sales distribution;
         (f)   Data processing, computer programming;
         (g)   Home crafts;
         (h)   Garden produce;
         (i)   Janitorial;
         (j)   Insurance sales or broker, interior design;
         (k)   Mail order (not including retail sales from site);
         (l)   Real estate sales or broker; and/or
         (m)   Sales representative.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.397 MAJOR HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   A major home occupation is an activity carried out for gain by a
resident and conducted as a customary, incidental, and accessory use in the
residents dwelling, or conducted on the same lot as the residents dwelling. A
major home occupations shall meet the standards listed in §
155.396 as a minimum.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may allow as a conditional use increases in
intensity of a home occupation, as follows:
      (1)   May allow for the conduct of the home occupation and the storage of
required materials and supplies in an accessory structure;
      (2)   The number of customers or patrons coming to the home may range up
to ten per hour, provided sufficient off-street parking is provided and the use
does not adversely affect the neighborhood; and
      (3)   May have up to, but not exceeding, six employees, including the
owner.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS
§ 155.410 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose and objective of this subchapter is to establish
reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of sexually-
oriented business or their location in areas deleterious to the city, regulate
the signage of such businesses, control the adverse effects of such signage,
and prevent inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community.
   (B)   This subchapter is to be construed as a regulation of time, place, and
manner of the operation of these businesses, consistent with the United States
and State Constitutions.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.411 LOCATION OF BUSINESSES - RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually-oriented businesses shall only be permitted in areas zoned
Industrial under this chapter, subject to the following additional
restrictions.
   (A)   No sexually-oriented business shall be located:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or private school or educational
institution, child day care facility, public or private park or plaza, library,
or religious institution;
      (2)   Within 1,000 feet of any residential use, adult day care facility,
community correctional facility, fraternity or sorority house, homeless
shelter, juvenile detention facility, nursing home, protective housing
facility, rehabilitation/treatment facility, sheltered workshop, transitional
housing facility, or any agricultural or residential zoning boundary;
      (3)   Within 600 feet of any other sexually-oriented businesses, except
outcall services; or
      (4)   (a)   Within 350 feet of any gateway corridor.
         (b)   Gateway corridors include State Route-13, Interstate-15.
         (c)   The distance shall be measured from the right-of-way boundary of
an improved street or the future right-of-way boundary of unimproved streets.
   (B)   Distance requirements between structures and uses specified in this
section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or zoning districts, from the property boundaries of the school,
public park, religious or cultural activity, residential use, or other
sexually-oriented businesses, or from the right-of-way line of a gateway to the
structure of the sexually-oriented business.
   (C)   Distance requirements from zoning districts for this section shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures of zoning
districts, from the closest zoning boundary of a residential or agricultural
district to the sexually-oriented business structure.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.412 SIGNS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in §§
155.330 through
155.341, the more restrictive requirements for signs shall prevail.
   (B)   Signs for sexually-oriented businesses located in Industrial Zones
shall be limited as follows.
      (1)   No more than one exterior sign shall be allowed.
      (2)   No sign shall be allowed to exceed 18 square feet.
      (3)   No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign or on the
exterior walls or roof of such premises.
      (4)   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to or
inferring the nature of the business shall be allowed on any sign. Said signs
shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
      (5)   Only flat wall signs and/or awning signs shall be permitted.
      (6)   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed.
      (7)   Other than the signs specifically allowed by this subchapter, the
sexually-oriented business shall not attach, construct, or allow to be attached
or constructed any temporary sign, banner, light, or other device designed to
draw attention to the business location.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.413 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms involving sexually-oriented businesses which are not defined in this
chapter shall have the meanings set forth in §
114.05.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
REVIEW OF CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
§ 155.425 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   Pursuant to state code (UBC 63L-4-201), there is an underlying policy in the
city favoring the serious and careful consideration of matters involving
constitutional taking claims. There is a desire for fairness to the owner of
private property bringing the claim in view of the uncertainty and expense
involved in defending law suits alleging such issues. At the same time, the
legitimate role of the city in lawfully regulating real property must be
preserved and the public’s right to require the dedication or exaction of
property consistent with the Constitution. Consistent with this policy, this
subchapter establishes procedures for the review of actions that may involve
constitutional takings as well as providing guidelines for such considerations.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
§ 155.426 REVIEW OF FINAL CITY DECISION - PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a
constitutional taking of private real property by an action of the city shall
request a review of the final decision and action by the city.
   (B)   The following are specific procedures established for such a review.
      (1)   The person requesting a review must have obtained a final and
authoritative determination from the city.
      (2)   Within 30 days from the date of the city’s final determination that
gave rise to the concern that a constitutional taking may have occurred, the
person requesting the review shall file in writing, in the office of the City
Clerk, a request for review of that decision. A copy shall also be filed with
the City Attorney.
      (3)   The City Council, or designee of the City Council, shall
immediately set a time to review the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional taking’s claim.
      (4)   In addition to the written request for review, the applicant must
submit the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant requesting review;
         (b)   Name and/or business address of current owner(s) of the
property, form of ownership, and if owned by a corporation, partnership, or
joint venture, name and address of all principal shareholders or partners;
         (c)   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there
has been a constitutional taking:
         (d)   A detailed description of the property taken;
         (e)   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property
taken, including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired. This
should include any evidence of the value of the property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased, if
applicable, including the relationship, if any, between the person requesting
the review and the party from whom the property was acquired;
         (f)   The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected
such as, but not limited to, fee simple ownership or leasehold interest;
         (g)   Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of
a full or partial interest in the property in the three years prior to the date
of application;
         (h)   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose,
including financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the
three years prior to the date of application;
         (i)   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes paid on the property
for the previous three years;
         (j)   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans
secured by the property, including name of the mortgagor or lender, current
interest rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan, and other
significant provisions including, but not limited to, the right of purchaser(s)
to assume the loan;
         (k)   All listings of the property for sale or rent, prices asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three years;
         (l)   All studies commissioned by the applicant or agents of the
applicant within the previous three years concerning feasibility of development
or utilization of the property;
         (m)   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three years;
         (n)   Information from a chapter policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
         (o)   The City Council, or its designee, may request additional
information, reasonably necessary in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
      (5)   (a)   An application shall not be deemed to be complete until the
City Council, or designee, certifies to the applicant that all the materials
and information required above have been received by the city.
         (b)   The City Council, or designee, shall notify the applicant of any
missing information and shall identify the materials and information necessary
to correct the incomplete application.
      (6)   The City Council, or designee, shall hear all the evidence related
to and submitted by the applicant, city, or any other interested party.
      (7)   (a)   A final decision on the review shall be rendered within 14
days from the date the complete application has been received by the City
Clerk.
         (b)   The decision of the City Council, or designee, regarding the
results of the review shall be given in writing to the applicant and the
officer, employee, Board, Commission, or Council that rendered the final
decision that gave rise to the constitutional taking’s claim.
      (8)   If the City Council, or designee, fails to hear and decide the
review within 14 days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed to be
approved.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.427 REVIEWING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The City Council, or designee, shall review the facts and information
presented by the applicant to determine whether or not the action by the city
constitutes a constitutional taking as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   In doing so, they shall consider:
      (1)   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real
property bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;
      (2)   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action
taken by the city; and
      (3)   Whether the property and exaction taken is roughly proportionate
and reasonably related, both in nature and extent, to the impact caused by the
activities that are the subject of the decision being reviewed.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008) Penalty, see
155.999
§ 155.428 RESULTS OF REVIEW.
   After completing the review, the City Council, or designee, shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and, where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, Board,
Commission, or Council that made the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional taking’s claim.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008)
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.440 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter or code shall be administered by the
Zoning Administrator acting under the supervision of the Mayor, or the Mayor in
the absence of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall, when
deemed appropriate, recommend legal action to the City Council in order to
enforce this chapter or other land use related ordinances or regulations. The
Zoning Administrator, under the supervision of the city’s Mayor shall determine
when violations exist, when a development is in substantial compliance with
this chapter, or when strict compliance should be demanded, or other
enforcement actions taken. The Zoning Administrator shall also advise the city
and developers as to application, submission, compliance and procedural matters
as related to this chapter as well as the interpretation of this chapter’s
provisions to the best of his, her, or their ability.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator is charged with zoning and other related
enforcement duties of this chapter, as well as issuance, revocation and
administration of building and occupancy permits as per this chapter and
Uniform Building Codes in effect. The Zoning Administrator is also in charge of
building or use inspections, and all building inspectors shall work under his,
her, or their direction. Applications for permitted uses shall be evaluated by
the Zoning Administrator to determine if approval can be given as a permitted
use or if questionable, the use may be conditional or require further study or
attention. In the latter case, the application shall be referred to the
Planning Commission for further clarification or processing. The Zoning
Administrator shall work with and advise the Planning Commission and City
Council on all zoning or land use matters as applied for and acted on by the
city.
   (C)   The failure of any person to properly interpret or apply this chapter
or any provision of it shall not operate to waive or estop the city from
subsequent enforcement action. Permits issued in violation of this subchapter
shall have no force or effect and persons knowingly or negligently building or
subdividing under improperly issued permits or approvals do so at their own
risk.
§ 155.441 ZONING AND BUILDING PERMITS.
   Construction, alteration, repair, or removal of any building or structure or
any part thereof, as provided for or as restricted in this subchapter and the
Uniform Building Code, shall not be commenced except upon clearance by the city
staff for compliance with this chapter and issuance of a building permit.
§ 155.442 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   Land, buildings, or premises in any district shall hereafter be used only
for a purpose permitted in such a district and in accordance with the
appropriate regulations. A permit of occupancy shall be issued by a qualified
person designated by the city to the effect that the use, building, or premises
conform to provisions of this and all related ordinances, regulations, and
requirements prior to occupancy, for any building erected, enlarged or altered
structurally for the occupancy or use of any land. Such a permit is needed
whenever use or character of any building or land is to be changed.
§ 155.443 INSPECTION.
   The city, through its designated officials, shall, upon presentation of
evidence of his, her, or their authority, have the right of access to any
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspecting all buildings and
structures during the course of their construction, modification, or repair,
and to inspect land uses to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
§ 155.444 SITE PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Apart from any project or building plans required to be submitted to
the city, a detailed site plan, drawn to scale, shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator, as part of any application for a building permit for a permitted
use.
   (B)   The site plan shall show where pertinent:
      (1)   Scale and north arrow;
      (2)   Lot lines and their dimensions. Public or main buildings, or
dwellings of any type require permanent reference monuments in each of the four
corners of the lot it is to be built on. If a lot contains more than four
corners, only four permanent reference monuments are required. If a lot
contains less than four corners at least three permanent reference monuments
are required. All monuments shall be properly set in the ground and approved by
a Registered Land Surveyor (licensed in the state) prior to approval of the
building permit application. If permanent reference monuments are already in
place additional monuments are not required;
      (3)   Adjacent streets, roads, rights-of-way, ditches, easements, and
land uses;
      (4)   Location of all existing structures on subject property and
adjoining properties (completely dimensioned, including utility lines, poles,
fences, and the like);
      (5)   Existing utility line locations and sizes;
      (6)   Existing and proposed grading, drainage, and landscaping plans;
      (7)   Location of proposed construction and improvements, including
location of proposed sewer connection, all landscape elements, retaining walls,
drainage works, and signs;
      (8)   Motor vehicle access, including individual parking stalls,
circulation patterns, curb, gutter, and sidewalk and trail location;
      (9)   Trash storage plans;
      (10)   Necessary explanatory notes;
      (11)   Name, address, and telephone number of builder and owner; and/or
      (12)   Other information which may be requested by the Zoning
Administrator, city staff or in this chapter.
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.445 TIME LIMIT.
   Unless there is actual construction and a permit issued within a period of
180 days from the date of plan approval by the Zoning Administrator, the plan
approval for a permitted use shall expire.
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.446 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this chapter are Class “C” misdemeanors, and are punishable by
a fine and/or imprisonment. The officers and directors of a corporation shall
be responsible for the acts committed by that corporation. Corporations and
individuals shall be responsible for the acts of their agents committed in
violation of this subchapter if they had knowledge of the act committed, and
the owner of the property is presumed to have knowledge of the uses of that
property and improvements made to it. Each day that a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
155.999
MASTER PLANNED COMMUNITY DISTRICT
§ 155.460 PURPOSE.
   Each Master Planned Community Zone (MPC Zone) is intended to allow a master
planned, architecturally designed development where customized zoning
requirements apply in order to permit flexibility and innovation in a large-
scale site development. Each MPC Zone will be developed in accordance with an
approved plan and master development agreement, and in compliance with the
city's land use ordinances that are not in conflict with the approved master
development agreement and with the general requirements outlined herein. It is
anticipated that this zone will be used for multi-family, mixed use, and varied
density for residential developments and also for certain commercial
developments.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.461 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   An MPC zone shall only be established with the concurrent approval of
a development agreement.
   (B)   The form to be used for the development agreement is attached to
Ordinance 2022-007 as Appendix A, made available in the City Recorder’s office.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.462 MINIMUM SIZE.
   Each MPC Zone shall be at least ten acres. Parcels must form one contiguous
area and cannot be bisected except by a public right-of-way, easement, or
natural barrier.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.463 OPEN SPACE REQUIRED.
   A minimum of 20% to a maximum of 50% open space shall be provided in each
MPC Zone to include natural maintained choice open space or improved parks as
approved by the City Council. Open space that is unbuildable because of slope
or contamination shall not be considered as open space.
   (A)   Detention basins may count as open space only if they provide
recreational amenities, including but not limited to: playgrounds, gazebos,
exercise stations, or sports fields with parking lots.
   (B)   Park strips, curb, gutter, sidewalks, and publicly dedicated streets
shall not count as open space.
   (C)   A method approved by the City Council to maintain open space shall be
established prior to the approval of the MPC Zone. Preservation, maintenance,
and ownership of required open spaces within the MPC Zone may be accomplished
by any of the following:
      (1)   Dedication of the land to the city as a public park or trails
system.
      (2)   (a)   Granting to the city a permanent open space easement on or
over any privately-owned open space to guarantee that the open space remains
perpetually in recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the
responsibility of the owner of a Home Owner's Association (HOA) established by
bylaws which are satisfactory to and approved by the city.
         (b)   1.   The city may provide temporary approval for an HOA for an
initial one year probationary period, during which time the City Council may
monitor the effectiveness of the HOA.
            2.   If at the end of the one year probationary period, it is
determined by the City Council that the HOA is unable or unwilling to meet the
requirements established by the city in maintaining the open space or within
the bylaws established for the HOA, the city may terminate its approval of the
HOA and create a special assessment area that covers the landowners within the
MPC Zone for the purposes of financing the costs of improvements, operations,
and maintenance of the open space areas.
      (3)   The city may, at their discretion, create a special assessment area
that covers landowners within the MPC Zone to provide for the benefit,
improvement, and maintenance of the open space areas.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.464 FEE IN LIEU OF OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   As an alternative, the City Council may at its discretion charge a fee
in lieu of open space to allow for more centralized parks or other municipal
off-site improvements as the City Council determines.
   (B)   A fee in lieu of open space may be provided if the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   The amount of square footage that is required as open space shall
be reviewed and recommended by the Planning Commission as part of the MPC Zone
application process.
      (2)   The fee in lieu of open space shall be determined by an appraised
amount per square footage, which amount shall be set by an appraisal conducted
by an independent appraiser paid for by the developer, and the appraised amount
shall be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.465 CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Pre-application.
      (1)   Contact person is the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Applicant shall schedule a conceptual plan review with the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   Property owner or their designated representative (hereinafter
"applicant") shall meet with the Zoning Administrator to:
         (a)   Discuss the procedure for approval of an MPC Zone, site plan,
and development agreement;
         (b)   Discuss the requirements for a conceptual plan drawing
(conceptual plan is 11inches by 17 inches) to include the following:
            1.   Types of uses;
            2.   Density requested in each use area;
            3.   General location of any proposed and/or existing easements and
rights-of-way;
            4.   The general location, arrangement and configuration of open
space, including the location, arrangement, and configuration of any parks and/
or trails; and
            5.   The general location and design of street infrastructure and
that the proposed street infrastructure is in harmony with the city's
transportation master plan.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed
conceptual plan and request for rezone to an MPC Zone meets the requirements
for an MPC Zone.
   (B)   Conceptual plan application: requirements.
      (1)   A conceptual plan application is required for a conceptual plan
review, but no application fee is required. However, an engineer review fee is
required for the City Engineer to review the conceptual plan.
      (2)   The conceptual plan application shall provide the following
information for discussion at the conceptual plan review:
         (a)   Types of uses;
         (b)   Density requested in each use area;
         (c)   General location of any proposed and/or existing easements and
rights-of-way;
         (d)   The general location, arrangement and configuration of open
space, including the location, arrangement, and configuration of any parks and/
or trails; and
         (e)   The general location and design of street infrastructure and
that the proposed street infrastructure is in harmony with the city's
transportation master plan.
      (3)   A minimum of three hard copies of the proposed conceptual layout in
an 11 inch by 17 inch paper size shall be provided to the City Recorder, and an
electronic copy shall be emailed to the City Recorder. The City Recorder shall
file one copy and distribute one copy to City Engineer, one copy to the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Conceptual plan application: review and approval.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the conceptual plan
application and will make recommendations to the applicant as to changes or
additions.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit the complete conceptual plan
application to the City Engineer to assess infrastructure needs. The City
Engineer shall have 17 days prior to any scheduled Planning Commission meeting
to review the application. The City Engineer's comments shall be given to the
Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator, and the applicant three days prior
to the date of the Planning Commission meeting when the conceptual plan
application will be on the agenda and considered by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall recommend approval, approval with
conditions, or recommend disapproval regarding the conceptual plan and shall
send that recommendation to the City Council.
      (4)   The City Council shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny
the conceptual plan.
   (D)   Conceptual plan application: actions following review and approval.
Following the conceptual plan review and approval by the City Council, a rezone
application for an MPC Zone, site plan, and development agreement may be filed
by the applicant with the City Recorder.
   (E)   Conceptual plan: not an application for MPC Zone approval.
      (1)   A conceptual plan application does not constitute a land use
application for any approval or permit or rezone and is not binding on the city
or the applicant.
      (2)   An applicant's rights have not vested in the MPC Zone process until
the filing of a complete rezone application for an MPC Zone, site plan, and
development agreement.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator and City Engineer shall make the
determination regarding if a rezone application for an MPC Zone, site plan, and
development agreement are complete.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.466 SITE PLAN.
   (A)   A site plan shall be submitted and considered concurrently with an
application for approval of an MPC Zone.
   (B)   The site plan shall be attached as an exhibit to a proposed
development agreement.
   (C)   Either the site plan or the proposed development agreement shall
include the following items in one of those two documents:
      (1)   The proposed zone name and location.
      (2)   Permitted, conditional, accessory uses proposed for and in the MPC
Zone.
      (3)   Proposed residential use density.
      (4)   Minimum lot sizes.
      (5)   The range of average lot sizes.
      (6)   Building locations.
      (7)   Building elevations.
      (8)   Open space in the MPC Zone.
      (9)   Parking: location and number of spaces.
      (10)   Landscaping.
      (11)   Pedestrian and traffic circulation.
      (12)   Drainage and storm water retention plan.
      (13)   Utility layout.
      (14)   Plans for grading.
      (15)   Proposed development standards providing:
         (a)   Lot standards establishing requirements for lot area and
dimensions;
         (b)   Building, setback standards for front, side and rear yards; and
         (c)   Building regulations addressing building height, building
orientation, and architectural design guidelines.
      (16)   Impact statement showing the effect the proposed MPC Zone will
have on the environment, city utilities, traffic, and schools.
         (a)   The developer shall conduct traffic and environmental studies to
determine the impact the proposed MPC Zone may impose on existing
infrastructure and future development, unless otherwise waived by the City
Council.
         (b)   The applicant shall solely bear the costs of any impact study,
either done at the applicant's direction or at the direction of the City
Engineer, City Council, or Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.467 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   Compliance with the requirements of this subchapter does not exempt any
applicant from meeting any other applicable requirements of this chapter and
the city's land use ordinances that are not in conflict with the approved
development agreement and with the general requirements outlined in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.468 PHASE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If the MPC Zone is proposed to be developed in phases, the site
plan shall also show phase boundaries.
      (2)   Each phase shall be of such size, composition, and arrangement so
that construction and operation of each phase is feasible as a unit,
independent of any subsequent phase.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.469 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   After consideration of the site plan, application, and proposed
development agreement, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to
the City Council regarding the MPC Zone.
   (B)   At the same time, the Planning Commission shall recommend approval,
approval with conditions, or recommend the disapproval of the site plan and
proposed development agreement for the proposed MPC Zone.
   (C)   Planning Commission's recommendation of approval of a site plan,
application, and development agreement shall not be effective unless and until
a corresponding MPC Zone is approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.470 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standards may include development regulations regarding
processing of applications, common and private open space guidelines, natural
resource protections, grading, drainage and street standards.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.471 MODIFICATION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   In considering an application for an MPC Zone, the proposed site plan,
application, and development agreement may be modified by the City Council to
meet the intent and requirements of this subchapter and may include regulations
and standards other than those proposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.472 NO GUARANTEE OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Submittal of an application for an MPC Zone does not guarantee the
application will be approved.
   (B)   An MPC Zone may be approved only if the City Council, after receiving
a recommendation from the Planning Commission, finds the MPC Zone and the
associated preliminary plan, application, and development agreement meet the
findings required for approval.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.473 FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL.
   The proposed MPC Zone shall be approved only if the City Council makes two
of the following findings:
   (A)   The proposed MPC Zone conforms to the guidelines and policy of the
general plan;
   (B)   The MPC Zone is necessary to provide land use or design standards
tailored to a specific geographic area and development program that cannot
otherwise be provided through conventional zoning;
   (C)   The MPC Zone provides equal or greater compatibility with surrounding
land uses than would occur with conventional zoning;
   (D)   The MPC Zone provides equal or greater protection to sensitive lands
than would occur with conventional zoning;
   (E)   The MPC Zone avoids incompatible development on lands subject to
natural hazards;
   (F)   The MPC Zone promotes efficient land use by allowing housing and
commercial development at densities that are appropriate for the area; or
   (G)   The MPC Zone provides equal or greater opportunities for alternative
modes of transportation such as walking, bicycling, or transit, than would
occur with conventional zoning by:
      (1)   Encouraging or requiring significant mixed use development where
appropriate; and
      (2)   Providing a master plan with direct and convenient pedestrian or
bicycle connections between all land uses.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.474 DESIGNATION.
   Upon approval, each MPC Zone shall be given a unique name following the
designation "MPC —" and shall be independent of any other MPC Zones.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.475 PERMIT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Within an MPC Zone, applications for subdivision approval, site plan,
conditional use permits and any other needed permits shall be submitted and
approved as required to implement the conceptual master plan.
   (B)   The conceptual master plan shall meet the conceptual subdivision
review requirements of the city ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.476 AMENDMENTS TO PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   A site plan and development agreement may be amended upon written
agreement of all parties after following the procedure outlined for either a
minor or a major amendment.
   (B)   Minor amendment. A minor amendment is an amendment that does not alter
the density, amount of open space, or unit type, and shall be approved by the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   Major amendment. A major amendment is an amendment that alters the
density, amount of open space or unit type, and shall be approved by the City
Council after a recommendation of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.477 SUNSET PROVISION.
   (A)   Any MPC Zone created under this subchapter shall be commenced, which
includes active work and construction efforts being made on the site, within
one year of the date which the City Council grants approval of the MPC Zone and
the accompanying development agreement, or the MPC Zone application shall be
denied and the zone shall revert to the previous zone.
   (B)   An MPC Zone involving commercial development may be granted an
exception to the one year commencement date. The applicant shall apply to the
City Council regarding granting an extension of time for commencement.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.478 GUARANTEES FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to the commencement of "development activities" as defined in UCA §
10-9a-101, et seq., or the recording of any subdivision plat, an applicant must
follow §§
150.195 through
150.199 and shall file a guarantee of one of the outlined forms in that chapter
and it shall be approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation (as principal, agent, employee, or
otherwise) violating, causing, or permitting violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punishable as provided by
law. Such person, firm, or corporation intentionally violating this chapter
shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate offense for each day during which
any portion of any violation of this chapter is permitted or continued by such
person, firm, or corporation, shall be punishable as herein provided.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by either civil or
criminal actions in courts of appropriate and competent jurisdiction. Suit may
be brought by the city or by affected property owners in the manner set forth
below.
      (1)   Criminal citations. The Zoning Administrator and other designated
city officials may, when there is probable cause to believe that construction
has occurred in violation of this subchapter, issue a citation and swear out
criminal complaints against the appropriate individuals and business entities.
Specific approval from the Mayor or designee for such misdemeanor citations is
required.
      (2)   Civil actions. The city, with the authorization of the City
Council, may bring actions for civil and equitable relief, including enjoining
specific land uses and affirmative injunctions. The Zoning Administrator,
Planning Commission, and other designated city officials may recommend such
actions at any time to the City Council, provided that no civil proceeding
shall be commenced without the specific authorization of the Council.
      (3)   Third party actions. Individuals affected by zoning violations
within the city shall have the right to maintain private actions to enforce the
chapter without joining the city as a party.
   (C)   Failure to maintain required landscaping in a condition substantially
similar to its original approved condition as defined in §
155.189 shall subject the owner or lessee to a fine of up to $100 per day, and/
or revocation of business license, if, within ten days after the mailing of
such notice, the violation is not brought into compliance.
   (D)    Failure to maintain required landscaping in a condition substantially
similar to its original approved condition as defined in §
155.208 shall subject the owner or lessee to a fine of up to $100 per day, and/
or revocation of business license, if, within ten days after the mailing of
such notice, the violation is not brought into compliance.
(Ord. 2008-001, passed - -2008; Ord. 2021-021, passed - -2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   REZONINGS
      
IV.   LAND TRANSFERS AND VACATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2016-001      - -         Franchise agreement with Questar Gas Company
R. 2009-008   9-8-2009    Interlocal agreement with Central Box Elder Fire
                          Special Service District for fire services
R. 2009-009   11-10-2009  Authorizes Mayor to sign agreements on behalf of the
                          city
R. 2010-003   5-27-2010   Authorizes Mayor to sign closing documents and
                          provide for an effective date
                          Award of contracts for Sanitary Sewer Project (Rupp
R. 2011-007   9-13-2011   Trucking) and Wastewater Treatment Plant Construction
                          (Spindler Construction)
R. 2012-009   10-12-2012  Lease purchase agreement with Bank of Utah
2021-013      6-29-2021   Adjusts right-of-way agreement for culinary water
                          pipeline
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2004-02    5-11-2004   Intent to annex seven parcels of land that create an
                          island of unincorporated property
R. 2004-03    5-11-2004   Intent to annex seven parcels of land that create an
                          island of unincorporated property
R. 2004-05    11-9-2004   Accepts petition for annexation of certain real
                          property
2005-01       1-19-2005   Extends and increases corporate limits
2005-01       2-8-2005    Extends and increases corporate limits
R. 2005-04    11-9-2005   Intent to annex three parcels of unincorporated land
2005-05       12-21-2005  Extends and increases corporate limits
2016-003      12-13-2016  Extends and increases corporate limits
R. 2020-001   2-11-2020   Intent to annex two unincorporated islands
2020-003      10-13-2020  Extends and increases corporate limits
R. 2020-007   7-14-2020   Intent to annex 13 parcels of land
R. 2020-008   8-11-2020   Intent to annex two unincorporated parcels of land
R. 2021-001   2-9-2021    Accepts petition for annexation of certain contiguous
                          real property
2021-005      3-9-2021    Extends and increases corporate limits
2021-006      3-9-2021    Extends and increases corporate limits
2021-007      3-9-2021    Extends and increases corporate limits
2022-009      10-11-2022  Extends and increases the corporate limits
R. 2022-007   10-11-2022  Accepts petition for annexation of certain contiguous
                          real property
                         
 
TABLE III: REZONINGS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2006-03       - -         Changes zoning of three parcels from R-1-20 to CP-2
2008-004      8-12-2008   Changes zoning of two parcels from R-1-20 to C-2
                          Changes zoning of one parcel located in the Elwood
2023-001      1-10-2023   Crossing Subdivision from Residential to Commercial,
                          except Lots 14 through 23, which remain zoned
                          Residential
2023-002      1-10-2023   Changes the zoning of one parcel, approximately 34.11
                          acres, from Residential to Agricultural
                         
 
TABLE IV: LAND TRANSFERS AND VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2007-01       7-13-2005   Approves transfer of property for purpose of
                          developing a park
2021-012      6-29-2021   Vacates an irrigation easement
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE
UCA Cites Code Section
UCA Cites                   Code Section
4-17-103                    91.16
4-41a-101 et seq.           155.127
4-41a-102                   155.127
4-41a-201                   155.127
10                          30.03
10-3-1301 et seq.           30.02,
                            30.05
10-3-1305                   32.12
10-3-1306                   32.12
10-3-1307                   32.12
10-3-1308                   32.12
10-8-15                     50.02
10-8-38                     50.02
10-8-41.6                   117.04
10-9a                       30.20,
                            150.002
10-9a-3                     155.011
10-9a-7                     150.174
10-9a-101 et seq.           155.055,  155.578
10-9a-103                   150.027
10-9a-201                   155.035
10-9a-204 et seq.           155.055
10-9a-304                   155.011
10-9a-305                   155.012
10-9a-404                   150.027
10-9a-407                   155.023
10-9a-502                   150.027
10-9a-503                   150.027
10-9a-508                   51.51,
                            51.54
10-9a-511(3)                155.113
10-9a-511(4)                155.113
10-9a-516 through 10-9a-520 155.380
10-9a-523                   150.091
10-9a-524                   150.004,
                            150.091
10-9a-602                   150.027
10-9a-603                   150.004
10-9a-605                   150.065
10-9a-605(2)                150.100
                            150.004,
10-9a-608                   150.027,
                            150.080
10-9a-608(5)                150.092
10-9a-609.5                 150.081
10-9a-702                   30.23,
                            30.25
10-9a-801                   155.043
10-11                       91.15
10-11-3                     91.22
                            50.22,
11-36a-101 et seq.          50.24,
                            50.28,
                            50.31
11-36a-705                  50.31
11-36a-301(3)(a)            50.23
11-39-103                   32.04,
                            32.05
14-1-18                     32.06
14-1-19                     32.06
15A-3-301 et seq.           51.04
17-23-17                    150.004
17-27a-801 et seq.          30.31
19-4-101 et seq.            51.52
19-4-114                    51.54
20A-9-404(1) and (2)        31.02
26-61a-101 et seq.          155.127
26-61a-102                  155.127
26-61a-301                  155.127
32B                         111.01
52                          30.05
52, Chapter 4               30.28,
                            150.004
52-4-1 et seq.              30.28,
                            31.01
57-8-1                      155.023
58, Chapter 22              150.032
59-2-502                    150.101
63-56-2A                    32.06
63-56-21                    32.05
63A-16-505                  155.037
63A-16-601                  155.037
63G-2-101 et seq.           155.055
63G-7-101 et seq.           51.36
63G-6a-802                  32.05
63G-6a-1105                 32.06
                            32.04,
63G-6A et seq.              32.05,
                            32.06
63G-6A-1801                 32.11
63G-6A-1802                 32.11
73-1-4(2)(f)                51.52,
                            51.53
73-1-4(2)(f)(i)             51.52
73-1-15.5(1)(b)             150.004,
                            150.031
70C-5-103                   116.14
76-3-205                    10.99
76-3-301(1)(d)              10.99
76-3-301(1)(e)              10.99
76-3-302(3)                 10.99
76-3-302(4)                 10.99
76-10-801 through 76-10-803 91.16
78B-6-1101                  91.16
78B-22-102                  10.99
78B-22-301                  10.99
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Passed Date Code Section
Res. No.   Passed Date Code Section
2004-02    5-11-2004   TSO Table II
2004-03    5-11-2004   TSO Table II
2004-05    11-9-2004   TSO Table II
2005-04    11-9-2005   TSO Table II
2006-02    - - 2006    153.01
2008-001   1-2-2008    154.01-
                       154.03
                       90.01-
2009-002   2-10-2009   90.07,
                       90.99
2009-004   5-12-2009   151.24
2009-008   9-8-2009    TSO Table I
2009-009   11-10-2009  TSO Table I
2009-010   12-8-2009   31.01
2010-003   5-27-2010   TSO Table I
2011-006   9-7-2011    50.32
2011-007   9-13-2011   TSO Table I
2012-009   10-12-2012  TSO Table I
2016-001   1-12-2016   51.37
2017-002   5-9-2017    32.46
2018-001   1-9-2018    32.01-
                       32.12
2020-001   2-11-2020   TSO Table II
2020-04-14 4-14-2020   31.01
2020-006   7-14-2020   31.03
2020-007   7-14-2020   TSO Table II
2020-008   8-11-2020   TSO Table II
2021-001   2-9-2021    TSO Table II
2022-006   8-9-2022    32.46
2022-007   10-11-2022  TSO Table II
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
Ord. No.  Passed Date Code Section
254       - -         91.01
2006-03   - -         TSO Table III
2016-001  - -         TSO Table I
                      91.01,
177       4-14-1992   91.02,
                      91.99
2001-01   10-10-2001  51.01-
                      51.12
2005-01   1-19-2005   TSO Table II
2005-01   2-8-2005    TSO Table II
2007-01   7-13-2005   TSO Table IV
2005-04   8-10-2005   51.20-
                      51.36
2005-05   12-21-2005  TSO Table II
                      91.15-
2007-01   1-10-2007   91.22,
                      91.99
                      155.001-
                      155.022,
                      155.035-
                      155.043,
                      155.055-
                      155.057,
                      155.070-
                      155.088,
                      155.100-
                      155.113,
                      155.125,
                      155.140-
                      155.143,
                      155.155-
                      155.158,
                      155.170-
2008-001  - -2008     155.174,
                      155.205-
                      155.210,
                      155.245-
                      155.256,
                      155.270-
                      155.281,
                      155.295-
                      155.315,
                      155.380-
                      155.384,
                      155.395-
                      155.397,
                      155.410-
                      155.413,
                      155.425-
                      155.428,
                      155.999
2008-003  4-1-2008    155.170-
                      155.176
2008-004  8-12-2008   TSO Table III
                      155.225-
2008-005  8-12-2008   155.232,
                      155.355-
                      155.365
                      151.01-
                      151.09,
2009-003  - -2009     151.20-
                      151.23,
                      151.35-
                      151.37
2009-001  3-10-2009   31.02
                      50.01-
2010-003  3-9-2010    50.07,
                      50.99
2009-002  4-28-2009   32.45
                      90.20-
2010-006  6-29-2010   90.27,
                      90.99
2011-001  - -2011     32.25-
                      32.31
2012-001  4-10-2012   50.20-
                      50.31
2015-0001 4-14-2015   153.01
                      110.01-
                      110.10,
                      110.25-
                      110.29,
                      110.99,
                      111.01-
                      111.09,
                      112.01-
                      112.11,
                      112.99,
                      113.01-
                      113.03,
2016-002  11-16-2016  113.99,
                      114.01-
                      114.06,
                      114.20-
                      114.35,
                      114.99,
                      115.01-
                      115.04,
                      116.01-
                      116.14,
                      116.99,
                      117.01-
                      117.03
2016-003  12-13-2016  TSO Table II
                      152.01-
                      152.05,
                      152.20-
2017-002  6-13-2017   152.22,
                      152.35-
                      152.44,
                      152.99
                      50.01-
2010-003  6-11-2019   50.07,
                      50.99
--        2-11-2020   155.070-
                      155.088
2020-003  10-13-2020  TSO Table II
                      150.195,
2020-005  3-9-2021    150.196,
                      150.198,
                      150.199
2021-004  3-9-2021    150.170-
                      150.174
2021-005  3-9-2021    TSO Table II
2021-006  3-9-2021    TSO Table II
2021-007  3-9-2021    TSO Table II
2021-010  6-8-2021    155.175
2021-011  6-8-2021    155.176
2021-012  6-29-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-013  6-29-2021   TSO Table II
2022-002  3-8-2022    51.50-
                      51.55
2022-006  8-9-2022    155.185-
                      155.192
2022-007  9-13-2022   155.460-
                      155.478
2022-008  9-13-2022   155.140-
                      155.143
2022-009  10-11-2022  TSO Table II
2023-001  1-10-2023   TSO Table III
2023-002  1-10-2023   TSO Table III
2023-005  10-10-2023  155.015
                      150.001–
                      150.005,
                      150.020–
                      150.028,
                      150.030–
                      150.032,
                      150.060–
                      150.063,
2024-001  10-8-2024   150.070,
                      150.080,
                      150.081,
                      150.090–
                      150.092,
                      150.100–
                      150.106,
                      150.110–
                      150.121,
                      150.999
2024-002  3-12-2024   32.46
                      155.023,
2024-005  7-9-2024    155.126,
                      155.127,
                      155.185
                     
 
