FAIRFIELD, UT
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 12122023-2, passed 12-12-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE 1.
ADMINISTRATION.
Chapter 1
General Provisions for Administration.
   Section
1.1.10.   Adoption of Code.
   Section
1.1.20.   Acceptance.
   Section
1.1.30.   Amendments.
   Section
1.1.40.   Alterations.
   Section
1.1.50.   Definitions.
   Section
1.1.60.   General Rules of Construction.
   Section
1.1.70.   Administrative Enforcement Authority.
   Section
1.1.80.   Saving Clause.
   Section
1.1.90.   General Penalty for Violation of Ordinance.
   Section
1.1.100.   Offenses Designated; Classified.
   Section
1.1.110.   Mayor and Town Council.
   Section
1.1.120.   Fairfield Town Planning Commission.
   Section
1.1.130.   Administrative Staff.
   Section
1.1.140.   Nepotism.
   Section
1.1.150.   Chief of Police.
   Section
1.1.160.   Fire Chief.
   Section
1.1.170.   Citizens and Visitors.
   Section
1.1.180.   Conflict of Interest.
   Section
1.1.190.   Government Records Access and Management.
   Section
1.1.200.   Reporting Fraud and Abuse.
   Section
1.1.210.   Travel.
   Section
1.1.220.   Personal Use of Entity Assets.
   Section
1.1.230.   Security.
Section 1.1.10. Adoption of Code.
   Upon the adoption by the Town Council, this Code is hereby declared to be
the official Town Code of Fairfield, Utah. This code of ordinances shall be
known and cited as the Fairfield Town Code and is hereby published by authority
of the Town Council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the Town as provided in Section
1.1.30 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents.
Adopted 10 January 2023 Ordinance No. 01102023
Section 1.1.20. Acceptance.
   This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the Ordinances of the Town of general and permanent effect.
Section 1.1.30. Amendments.
   Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the chapter or chapters to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately codified either by
being forwarded to the codifiers or the Town Recorder and the said ordinance
material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of
this Code. Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be
inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
Section 1.1.40 Alterations.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Town Council. The Town Recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Town
Recorder.
   Any person having custody of a copy of this Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the Office of the Town
Recorder. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Town and shall be
returned to the office of the Town Recorder when directed to do so by order of
the Town Council.
Section 1.1.50. Definitions.
   See
Title 12. Definitions.
Section 1.1.60. General Rules of Construction.
   A.   In the construction of this code and all ordinances amending any part
thereof, the following rules shall apply except where such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent or contrary to the context of the
ordinance:
      1.   Words used in the present tense include the past and the future
tense and vice versa;
      2.   Words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neutral; 
      3.   Any gender mentioned in this code includes all gender types;
      4.   The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular;
      5.   Words prohibiting anything being done except in accordance with a
license or permit or authority from a Town employee, board or officer shall be
construed as giving such employee, board or office power to license or permit
or authorize such a thing to be done; and
      6.   Words and phrases used in this code and not specifically defined
shall be construed according to the context and approved usage of the language.
Section 1.1.70. Administrative Enforcement Authority.
   The Building Department, Fire Chief, Utah County Sheriff and others
designated by the Town Council for code enforcement have the authority and
powers necessary to determine whether a violation of the Code exists and the
authority to take appropriate action to gain compliance with the provisions of
the Municipal Code and applicable State codes. These powers include the power
to issue notices of violation administrative citations, notice and orders and
civil penalties, the power to inspect public and private property and use the
administrative remedies which are available
Section 1.1.80. Saving Clause.
   A.   Repeal of General Ordinances. All general ordinances of the Town passed
prior to the adoption of this Code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the Town; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Court Proceedings. No new ordinance shall be construed or held to
repeal a former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed
or as to any act done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or
any right accrued or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way
whatever to affect any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim
arising before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings
thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such
proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be mitigated by any provisions of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by
consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new
ordinance takes effect.
   C.   Repeals. This chapter shall extend to all repeals, either by express
words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new
provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Town
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation or as waiving any right of the
Town under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Code.
   E.   Severability Clause.  If any section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code or any part thereof is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The
Town Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one (1) or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional invalid or ineffective.
Section 1.1.90. General Penalty For Violation of Ordinance.
   A.   Criminal. The Town Council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any Town ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B
misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a term of
imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
   B.   Civil. The Town Council may prescribe a civil penalty for the violation
of any Town ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301. The Town may not impose a
civil penalty and adjudication for the violation of a Town moving traffic
ordinance.
   C.   Imprisonment. A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned
but may be subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any
combination, with any fine not to exceed the maximum Class C misdemeanor fine
under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
   D.   Fines of Corporations.   The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the Town, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this Town has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, in the same and not exceeding the amounts fixed for violations of Town
ordinances by individuals.
   E. Fairfield Town may not impose a criminal penalty greater than an
infraction for a violation pertaining to an individual’s pet, or an
individual’s use of their residence unless the violation qualifies as the
following:
      1.   Is a nuisance as defined in State code section 78B-6-1101(1);
      2.   Threatens the health, safety, or welfare of the individual or an
identifiable third party;
      3.   The Town has imposed a fine on the individual for a violation that
involves the same residence or pet on three previous occasions within the past
twelve (12) months;
      4.   The Town may not issue more than one infraction within a fourteen
(14) day time period for a violation described in this section that is ongoing;
and
      5.   The section does not apply to municipal enforcement of a building
code or fire code ordinance in accordance with Utah Code Annotated, Title 15A,
State Constructions and Fire Codes Act.
   F. Any law enforcement officer, the Mayor, or any public official charged
with the enforcement of the law may issue citations for violations of Town
ordinances/code.
Section 1.1.100. Offenses Designated; Classified.
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter. A person adjudged guilty of an
offense under this code or the ordinances of this Town shall be sentenced in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which involve
an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance with this
chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   C.   Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or infractions.
   D.   Misdemeanors are classified into the following categories:
      1.   Class B misdemeanors; and
      2.   Class C misdemeanors.
   E.   Any offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this Town when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a Class B
misdemeanor.
   F.   Infractions. Infractions are not classified. Any offense which is made
an infraction in this code or other ordinances of this Town, or which is
expressly designated an infraction and any offense designated by this code or
other ordinances of this Town which is not designated as a misdemeanor and for
which no penalty is specified is an infraction.
   G.   Continuing Violations. In all instances where the violation of this
code or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur.
Section 1.1.110. Mayor and Town Council.
   A.   Town Government. The Town government is vested in a Town Council,
consisting of a Mayor and four (4) Council members, to be elected at large.
   B.   Elected Terms. The election and term of office of the Town Council
shall be as follows:
      1.   The terms shall all be four (4) years with the Mayor and two (2)
Council members being elected in one (1) Town election year and the other two
(2) council members being elected in the following Town election year;
      2.   The officers so elected shall enter upon their duties at twelve
o’clock (12:00) noon on the first day of January next succeeding their election
and shall be sworn in as soon thereafter as is convenient for the Council to
convene; and
      3.   Mayor or Town Council vacancies shall be filled as provided in Utah
Code Annotated section 20A-1-510.
   C.   Candidate Eligibility and Residency Requirements. A person filing a
Declaration of Candidacy for a Town office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the Town for at least three hundred sixty
five (365) days immediately before the date of the election;
      2.   Meet all other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203;
      3.   A person living in an area annexed to the Town meets the residency
requirement of this section if that person resided within the area annexed to
the Town for at least three hundred sixty five (365) days immediately before
the date of the election;
      4.   Each elected officer of the Town shall maintain residency within the
boundaries of the Town during the officer’s term of office;
      5.   If an elected officer of the Town establishes a principal place of
residence, as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-2-105, outside the
Town during the officer’s term of office, the office is automatically vacant;
      6.   Any person elected to a Town office shall be a registered voter in
the Town; and
      7.   If an elected Town officer is absent from the Town any time during
his term of office for a a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days
without the consent of the Town Council, the term of office is automatically
vacant
   D.   Administration Vested in Mayor. The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the mayor or a person designated by the mayor to
fulfill certain duties allowed by state code.
   E.   Powers and Duties of the Mayor. The Mayor is the Chief Executive
Officer to whom all employees of the Town shall report. The Mayor shall:
      1.   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the Town;
      2.   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
      3.   Ensure that all the laws, ordinances and resolutions are faithfully
executed and observed;
      4.   Report to the Town Council the condition of the Town and recommend
for Town Council consideration, any measures that the Mayor considers to be in
the best interests of the Town;
      5.   When necessary, call on the residents of the Town over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the State and
ordinances of the Town;
      6.   Appoint, with the advise and consent of the Town Council, persons to
fill Town offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the Town;
      7.   At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official, books,
papers, records or documents of the Town or of any officer, employee or agent
of the Town;
      8.   During Town Council discussions, deliberations and proceedings, the
Mayor has been delegated the primary responsibility to ensure the Town Council,
staff and members of the public adhere to the Council's adopted procedures;
      9.   Mayor or designee shall be responsible to ensure that the code is
kept up to date.
      10.   Give proper notice of openings on the Planning Commission and
appoint Planning Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Town Council
in order to have a full quorum at the first meeting of the Planning Commission
in July of each year.
      11.   Be responsible for making sure a Hearing Officer is in place.
   F.   Powers and Duties of the Town Council. The principal job of a Town
Council is to:
      1.   Set policy to preserve the health, provide for the safety and
promote the welfare and prosperity, comfort and convenience of the community.
To improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort and convenience of the
Town and the inhabitants thereof and for the protection of property therein;
and to enforce obedience to such ordinances with such fines or penalties as the
Town Council may deem proper; provided, that the punishment of any offense
shall comply with the authority granted by Utah Code 10-3-703;
      2.   Make policy. The Council is the policy-making legislative body. A
policy is a course of action for a community. Policymaking often takes the form
of passing ordinances or resolutions. After policy decisions are made by the
legislative body, others perform the administrative task of implementing the
policies. The distinction between formulation and implementation may not always
be clear. It is important to recognize that it is not the role of the
councilmember to administer Town affairs. The Council sets policy. Open
communication between legislators and administrators is essential;
      3.   Act as an appeals authority. An appeals authority is a quasi-
judicial body that works within the strict rules of the law as it is written.
It is a very narrow area of land use law. The Appeal Authority does not have
the power to rewrite or create new law. Even if it believes the law under
consideration is silly, unwise, inappropriate, or unclear, the first
responsibility is to determine whether the matter before it is consistent with
the law.  An Appeal Authority must both know the law and possess the courage to
follow it. When the Town Council acts as the appeals authority it must and
shall apply the law as written in the code/ordinance;
      4.   Look after the financial needs of the community. Setting policy
through the budget is a continuous, year long process. It involves setting
goals and establishing priorities. Public participation is critical to the
budget process, and is required by law, because of the many policy decisions
involved. The budget is one of the Town's strongest policy making tools;
      5.   Represent the interest of the citizens of the Town and should
consider the interests of the citizens of the Town as a whole and vote
accordingly; and
      6.   Council members should not attempt to exercise individual authority
over the Town, its employees, and its enterprises.
   G.   Holding Office Created During Council Membership. No member of the Town
Council shall hold or be appointed to any office which shall have been created
or the salary which shall have been increased while he was a member, during the
term for which he was elected and for one year after the expiration of such
term.
   H.   Council Meeting Minutes. The approved minutes of Council meetings shall
constitute the official record of such meetings and shall be filed in the
office of the Town Recorder. All such records shall be available for public
review and access in accordance with the State of Utah Government Records and
Access Management Act (“GRAMA”).
   I.   Code of Conduct.
      1.   During Town Council meetings, Town Council members shall assist in
preserving order and decorum and shall, neither by conversation or otherwise,
delay or interrupt the proceedings;
      2.   A Town Council member desiring to speak shall address the chair and,
upon recognition by the chair, shall confine the discussion to the question
under debate, avoid discussion of personalities and indecorous language and
refrain from personal attacks and verbal abuse, sidebar discussions, or
political partisan rhetoric;
      3.   Town Council members, once recognized, shall not be interrupted
while speaking unless called to order by the chair, unless a point of order is
raised by another member, or unless the speaker chooses to field questions from
another member if recognized by the chair; and
      4.   Town Council members shall confine their questions to the particular
matters before the Council and in debate, shall confine their remarks to the
issues before the Town Council.
   J.   Compensation. The compensation to be paid to each official of the Town
shall be established by the Town Council by ordinance. (FF ORDINANCE NO.
082217)
   K.   Removal of the Mayor. The powers and duties of the Mayor are not
inviolate or fixed. The Town Council, by ordinance, can take away or limit the
duties of the Mayor and they can be given to either Council Members or hired
professionals such as a town manager or administrator. Councils may not remove
from the Mayor or delegate to another authority any of the Mayor's legislative
or judicial powers or ceremonial functions, the Mayor's position as chair of
the Council or any ex-officio position that the Mayor holds. Any ordinance that
removes from or reinstates to the Mayor a power, duty, or function requires the
affirmative vote of the Mayor and a majority of all other Council Members or
all Council Members except the Mayor. Utah State Code 10-3b-303(1)(c);(2) and
403(1)(c);(2).
   L.   Town Council Land Use Authority. See Title 10.5.20.
Section 1.1.120. Fairfield Town Planning Commission.
   See Title 10.5.30.
Section 1.1.130.  Administrative Staff.
   A.   Code of Conduct for the Administrative Staff is as follows:
      1.   Members of the administrative staff and employees of the Town shall
observe the same rules, procedures and decorum applicable to members of the
Town Council;
      2.   The Mayor, or designee, is responsible for the orderly conduct and
decorum of all Town employees;
      3.   The Mayor shall take such disciplinary action as may be necessary
against Town employees acting within their scope of employment to ensure that
decorum is preserved at all times in Town Council Meetings; and
      4.   All persons addressing the Town Council, including staff members and
members of the public, shall be recognized by the chair and shall limit their
remarks to the matter under discussion and, if applicable, to the time limit
given by the chair.
   B.   Town Recorder and Deputy Town Recorder.
      1.   The Town Recorder shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the Town Council;
      2.   The Town Recorder of the Town shall be the custodian of, and must
keep safely, the Corporate Seal, records, plates, books, and papers belonging
to the corporation of the Town; shall attend all meetings of the Town Council
and record its proceedings; shall audit all claims presented to, and draw
warrants on, the Town Treasurer for all appropriations made by the Town
Council; shall annually assist with an independent audit of the records of the
Town and keep such records showing the financial condition of the Town,
including receipts and disbursements, debts due to and owing by the Town and to
or from whom due; and shall perform such duties as may be assigned or requested
by ordinance or order of the Town Council; and
      3.   The Mayor may hire, at the discretion of the Town Council, a Deputy
Recorder to work under the Town Recorder. Duties of the Deputy Town Recorder
are to be assigned by the Mayor and/or Town Recorder/Clerk, as required.
   C.   Town Treasurer.
      1.   The Town Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the Town Council. The Town Treasurer shall receive all funds belonging to the
Town and shall disburse said funds only upon warrants signed by the Town
Recorder; shall keep in suitable books a full account of all receipts and
disbursements made by or to the Town, with the names of the persons paying or
receiving such funds, and the object thereof; and shall give to each person
paying money into the Town a receipt therefore, specifying the date of payment,
and upon what account paid. The Town Treasurer shall perform such other duties
as are or may be required by law or ordinance or order of the Town Council.
   D. Bond Requirements:
      1.   Before taking the oath of office and entering on the duties of their
respective office, the Town officials, as prescribed by Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-819, or as designated by the Town Council, shall each have a bond
with good and sufficient securities, payable to the Town, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of their office and the payment of all
monies received by such officers according to law and the ordinances of the
Town, in such amounts as will be established by ordinance of the Town Council;
      2.   Town Treasurer: The Town Treasurer’s bond shall be superseded by any
rules, regulation or directive of the State Money Management Council when such
rule, regulation or directive is binding on the Town;
      3.   The premium charged by any corporate surety for any bond required in
this section shall be paid by the Town; and
      4.   The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
   E.   Compensation. The compensation to be paid to each official of the Town
shall be established by the Town Council by ordinance. (See FF Ordinance #
082217, Providing for the Compensation for Elected and Statutory Officers.)
   F.   Appointment of Other Officers. The Town Council may appoint such other
officers as may be necessary for the order and well-being of the Town, define
their duties, fix their term and compensation, and remove them from office
without cause.
Section 1.1.140 Nepotism.
   A.   Prohibited.  No elected, appointed officer or other employees shall
employ, appoint or vote for the appointment of his or her father, mother,
husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece,
first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-
in-law or daughter-in-law in or to any position or employment, when the salary,
wages, pay or compensation of such appointee is to be paid out of any public
funds. It is unlawful for such appointee to accept or to retain such employment
when his or her initial appointment thereto was made in contravention of the
foregoing sentence by a person within the degrees of consanguinity or affinity
therein specified having the direct power of employment or appointment to such
position, or by a board or group of which such person is a member.
   B.   Exceptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply, among
others, to the following employment situations:
      1.   Where the employee or appointee was appointed or employed by the
Town prior to the time during which said related person assumed said public
position therein;
      2.   Where the employee or appointee was or is eligible or qualified to
be employed by a department or agency of the Town as the result of his or her
compliance with civil service laws or regulations and merit system laws or
regulations, or as the result of certification as to his qualification and
fitness by a department, agency, or subdivision of the state or Town authorized
to do so by law;
      3.   Where the employee or appointee was or is employed by the employing
unit because he or she was or is the only person available, qualified, or
eligible for the position.; or
      4.   Where the employee or appointee is unanimously approved by the Town
Council.
Section 1.1.150  Chief of Police.
   Utah County Sheriff shall be the chief law enforcement officer of Fairfield
Town.  
Section 1.1.160 Fire Chief.
   Cedar Valley Fire Chief shall be the Fire chief of Fairfield Town.
Section 1.1.170.  Citizens and Visitors.
   A.   Code of Conduct:
      1.   Citizens and other visitors attending any public meeting shall
observe the same rules of propriety, decorum, and good conduct applicable to
members of the Town Council and any commissions or boards that may be formed by
them. Any person making personal, impertinent, profane, or slanderous remarks
or who becomes boisterous while addressing any council, commission, or board
while attending the public meeting shall be removed from the room if the deputy
sheriff or his designee, is so directed by the chair, and the person shall be
barred from further audience before the council, commission or board during
that session. If the chair fails to act, any member of the council, commission
or board may move to require enforcement of the rules, and the affirmative vote
of a majority of the council, commission, or board shall require the chair to
act. In addition to removal, violations of this rule may be subject to criminal
penalties as described in Section
1.1.90 of this Chapter;
      2.   Unauthorized remarks from the audience, stamping of feet, whistles,
yells, and similar demonstrations shall not be permitted by the chair, who may
direct the law enforcement present, to remove offenders from the room.
Aggravated cases shall be prosecuted on appropriate complaints signed by the
chair. In case the chair shall fail to act, any member of the council,
commission, or board may move to require enforcement of the rules, and the
affirmative vote of the majority of the council, commission, or board shall
require the chair to act. In addition to removal, violations of this rule may
be subject to criminal penalties as described in this section;
      3.   Noplacards, banners, or signs will be permitted in the public
meeting chamber or in any other room in which the public is meeting. However,
exhibits, displays, and visual aids used in connection with presentations to
the council, commission, or board are permitted. Those used for presentations
on specific agenda items must be reviewed by staff in advance of the meeting;
and
      4.   The Town appointed law enforcement officer, as a chief law
enforcement officer, shall, when necessary, be present at council meetings
unless excused by the Mayor, and shall act as sergeant at arms for the Town
Council and shall furnish whatever assistance is needed to enforce the rules of
the Town Council. see Section
1.1.150 of this Title.
Section 1.1.180. Conflict of Interest.
   A.   Each public official who is a member of the Town Council, Planning
Commission, or any other officially appointed and constituted public body of
Fairfield Town shall disclose every conflict of interest of which the public
official has knowledge prior to consideration of any action in any public
meeting or hearing before such public body on a matter in which the official
has a conflict of interest. For the purposes of this chapter, an official has a
conflict of interest if the official knows or has reason to know that the
official or a parent of the official or the official’s spouse, sibling, child,
or other member of the same household, agent, principal, client, employer or
employee:
      1.   Is required to disclose a conflict of interest by the requirements
of the Utah Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics Act; notwithstanding the
provisions of said Act, however, the following definitions of a conflict also
apply:
         a.   Has an ownership interest in a business having matters under
proper consideration before the public body;
         b.   Has an ownership interest in property within Fairfield Town for
which zoning, conditional use or development approvals are under consideration;
or
         c.   Represents as an agent, professional services contractor, or
other advisor an individual organization with matters under consideration
before the public body;
      2.   Has an ownership interest in a business or property that:
         a.   Has been issued a business license, has a place of business, or
otherwise operated a business offering or providing goods, products, or
services in Fairfield Town; or
         b.   Uses or developes property located within the Town limits of
Fairfield (other than the officials’ individual personal residence or
property), and which:
            i.   Offers the same goods, products, or services; or
            ii.   Would use or develop property in a similar way as a business
or property which has matters under proper consideration before the public body
or any Town Committee that reviews applications, issues, recommendations, or
grants approvals.
      3.   Has an ownership interest in property other than that of a primary
residence, that might enjoy:
         a.   Direct and immediate financial benefit or suffer direct economic
harm by zoning, conditional use; or
         b.   Development approvals of land before the public body, but which
is not owned by the official; or
      4.   Has an agreement with a party seeking approval that would
financially benefit the public official if such approval was granted.
   B.   Disclosure Deadline - Conduct at Public Meetings - Influencing Other
Officials. Each official with a conflict of interest as defined in subsection A
of this section shall disclose such conflict in the meeting prior to
consideration of the matter presenting the conflict. Officials with a conflict
of interest shall not speak or vote in that portion of the public meeting
considering the matter presenting the conflict, or Chair that portion of the
meeting as a town official, but may speak as a member of the public on the
matter under consideration.  Exceptions may be made to this requirement if a
majority of the remaining members of the body determine that adequate
consideration of the matter requires responses from the officials or appointed
staff.
   C.   Attendance at Meetings of Other Public Bodies.  A public official with
a conflict of interest as defined above may attend meetings of other public
bodies of which he or she is not a member and at which the matter creating the
conflict is considered. Such an official may speak on the matter under
consideration only after first declaring a conflict of interest and explaining
the nature of the conflict.
   D.   Abstention from Voting. A member of the Town Council, Planning
Commission or other public body of Fairfield Town who is required by subsection
A of this section to disclose a conflict of interest shall abstain from voting
on the matter for which such conflict exists. If the member insists on voting,
his or her vote will be recorded in the minutes as an abstention. In
determining whether a vote is tied or a matter is adopted, the abstention vote
shall be treated as if the member were absent from the meeting.
   E.   Suspension of Rules of Procedure. These rules of procedure may be
suspended by the Town Council or Planning Commission only upon a vote in which
at least four (4) council members or four (4) commission members assent to such
suspension.
   F.   Violation-Penalty. Each official who shall fail to disclose a potential
conflict which is known or of which the official should know as defined in
subsection A of this section shall be guilty of an offense in accordance with
Section 10-2-1310, Utah Code Annotated 1953. Such violations may also result in
removal from office or other disciplinary action in accordance with Section 10-
3-1311, Utah Code Annotated 1953, or other action as defined in Section 10-3-
1312, Utah Code Annotated 1953.
Section 1.1.190. Government Records Access and Management.
   A.   Adoption of State Standards. Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, the Town does hereby adopt all relevant provisions of the government
records access and management act, Utah Code Annotated section 63G.-2-101 et
seq., as the same may be amended from time to time. Town records shall be
classified and managed pursuant to the standards set out in the act.
   B.   Fees. The Town shall establish by resolution reasonable fees for the
cost of duplicating requested records. see Fairfield Town Fee Schedule.
   C.   Retention. Retention of Town records shall be in accordance with the
Government Records Access and Management Act; however, the Town reserves the
right to maintain any or all of its records beyond the time limits set out in
the state retention schedule.
   D.   Appeals. Appeals shall be made pursuant to the requirements and time
limits set out in the government records and access management act, except that
appeals must be made to the town council, which shall constitute the “appeals
board” referred to in the act.
Section 1.1.200. Reporting Fraud and Abuse.
   A.   Complaints should be submitted in writing. Complainants should also
submit any evidence that supports the complaint at this time. Essential
information includes specifics on ‘who, what, where, when’ as well as any other
details that may be important such as information on other witnesses,
documents, and pertinent evidence. Due to limited resources, our office is
unable to accept complaints that are not specific in nature or that are not
well supported by credible evidence. Submit complaints via the following
methods:
      1.   Email recorder@fairfieldtown.org Or mayor@fairfieldtown.org
      2.   US Mail: Fairfield Town, Box 271, Fairfield Utah 84013.
Section 1.1.210. Travel.
   A.   Employees are responsible for seeking advance authorization for travel
requests through their supervisory system, providing documentation of travel-
related expenses and activities, and being familiar with the travel procedures
prior to travel.
   B.   Employees will be reimbursed for in-state travel only when such travel
has been approved in advance by the Department Manager. All out of state travel
must be approved in advance by the Mayor of Fairfield. Evidence of advance
approval must be included with the Travel Expense Reimbursement Form.
   C.   Employees traveling together shall fill out and submit vouchers
separately, being careful not to overlap claims.
   D.   Employees must sign all vouchers.
   E.   All expenses must be business related.
   F.   Original or copies of receipts shall be attached to all vouchers. All
receipts shall be itemized and dated. In addition, names of the persons who are
included in the bill shall be listed on the back of the receipt to avoid
multiple reimbursements for the same expense.
   G.   The Department Manager and Mayor's signature must be on the voucher
seeking reimbursement.
   H.   Employees shall identify the reason for the travel as part of the
voucher description.
   I.   Business associates, vendors, or family members accompanying an
employee traveling for business purposes are not eligible for travel
reimbursement costs.
   J.   Vouchers must be submitted within 30 days of the event and/or travel
for which reimbursement is sought.
Section 1.1.220. Personal Use of Entity Assets.
   A.   Personal Use of Town Resources (Funds, Property, Labor, Services and
Equipment). Employees may not use Town resources, such as funds, property,
labor, services, tools, and equipment, for their own personal use or for the
private advantage of any other person, unless:
      1.   The use of resources is available to the public on the same terms;
      2.   The use is an acceptable de minimis or incidental use as outlined
below; or,
      3.   The use is specifically allowed under specific sections of this code
or Town policy manual such as employee wellness benefit, incidental use of
computer and electronic systems, or incidental use of Town vehicles.
   B.   Acceptable De Minimus or Incidental Use. There are limited
circumstances where de minimis and incidental use of some Town property, tools,
or equipment during the course of a work day may occur and may be reasonable.
“Incidental use” is intended to mean that the use is so infrequent and incurs
so little cost that tracking it would be unreasonable. For example, an employee
may use a Town telephone to make a local phone call, an employee may make a
personal note on a piece of paper or use tape to hang up a family photo, or the
employee may stop at a store to purchase a drink or deposit a check in a Town
vehicle while on break. Such de minimis or incidental use is generally
acceptable provided that the use:
      1.   Complies with other sections of this manual and other policies and
procedures;
      2.   Does not disrupt, distract, or interfere with Town business
activities;
      3.   Does not involve solicitation;
      4.   Does not support, operate, manage, or promote a for-profit business
endeavor. Any Town employee with a second job or private business must conduct
it on their own time, using their own equipment and supplies, and away from the
workplace;
      5.   Does not involve illegal activity; and
      6.   Does not have the potential to harm, bring discredit to, or be
adversarial to the Town or public confidence in our responsible use of Town
resources.
Section 1.1.230. Security.
   A.   File Cabinet Security.
      1.   File cabinets shall remain locked at all times that the Recorder or
Deputy Recorder, Financial Officer or mayor is not present.
      2.   Only the Town Recorder, Deputy Recorder, Financial Officer and Mayor
will have access to the file cabinets.
   B.   Computer Security.
      1.   All information traveling over Fairfield Town computer networks that
has not been specifically identified as the property of other parties will be
treated as though it is a Fairfield Town asset. It is the policy of Fairfield
Town to prohibit unauthorized access, disclosure, duplication, modification,
diversion, destruction, loss, misuse, or theft of this information. In
addition, it is the policy of Fairfield Town to protect information belonging
to third parties that have been entrusted to Fairfield Town in a manner
consistent with its sensitivity and in accordance with all applicable
agreements.
      2.   The Mayor or Mayor’s appointee is responsible for establishing,
maintaining, implementing, administering, and interpreting organization-wide
information systems security policies.
      3.   The computer and communications system privileges of all users,
systems, and independently operating programs such as agents, must be
restricted based on the need to know. This means that privileges must not be
extended unless a legitimate academic/business-oriented need for such
privileges exists.
      4.   Users are responsible for complying with this and all other
Fairfield Town policies defining computer and network security measures. Users
also are responsible for bringing all known information security
vulnerabilities and violations that they notice to the attention of the
Information Technology Department or in the absence of such a department, to
the Mayor and/or Town Council.
      5.   Passwords. Fairfield Town has an obligation to effectively protect
intellectual property and personal and financial information. Using passwords
that are difficult to guess is a key step toward effectively fulfilling that
obligation.
         a.   Any password used to access information stored and/or maintained
by Fairfield Town must be at least eight (8) characters long, contain at least
one uppercase letter and one number or special character;
         b.   Passwords will expire annually - every 365 days. When a password
expires or a change is required, users should create a new password that is not
identical to the last three passwords previously employed;
         c.   Passwords stored electronically may not be stored in readable
form where unauthorized persons might discover them;
         d.   Passwords may not be written down and left in a place where
unauthorized persons might discover them;
         e.   Passwords may never be shared or revealed to anyone other than
the authorized user or in some cases users;
         f.   If a password is suspected of being disclosed or known to have
been disclosed to anyone other than authorized users, it should be changed
immediately; and
         g.   Anytime an authorized user is changed or replaced a new password
must be set.
   C.   Portable Computers. Employees in the possession of portable, laptop,
notebook, handheld, tablet and other transportable computers containing
confidential information must not leave these computers unattended at any time
unless the information is stored in encrypted form. If a device is lost or
stolen the responsible party must:
      1.   Report all lost or stolen devices to the Mayor immediately; and
      2.   Change all passwords immediately.
   D.   Violations. Fairfield Town network users who willingly and deliberately
violate this policy will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
termination or legal action.
Chapter 3
Meetings Regulations.
   Section
1.3.10.   Regular Meetings.
   Section
1.3.20.   Definitions.
   Section
1.3.30.   Emergency Meetings.
   Section
1.3.40.   Open Meetings.
   Section
1.3.50.   Electronic Meetings.
   Section
1.3.60.   Quorum.
   Section
1.3.70.    Voting.
   Section
1.3.80.   Order of Business.
Section 1.3.10. Regular Meetings.
   The governing body shall conduct one regular meeting a month.
Section 1.3.20. Definitions.
   See
Title 12, Definitions.
Section 1.3.30. Emergency Meetings.
   A.   Emergency meetings shall only be called in an emergency where normal
noticing may be detrimental to the Town. The requirements for holding an
emergency meeting are as follows:
      1.   If at any time the business of the Town requires an emergency
meeting of the Town Council, such meeting may be ordered by the Mayor or any
two (2) members of the Town Council;
      2.   The order shall be entered in the minutes of the Town Council;
      3.   The order shall abide by the open public meetings act for the
noticing of the emergency meeting;
      4.   Notice thereof shall be served by the Town Recorder on each member
who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or by leaving it
at the members’ usual place of abode, or by electronic means (texting or
email);
      5.   The personal appearance by a council member at a special meeting of
the Council constitutes a waiver of the notice required under this subsection;
and
      6.   The written notice required in this subsection (4) shall state the
time and place the emergency meeting is to be held and the purpose for which
the emergency meeting is being called.
Section 1.3.40. Open Meetings.
   Every meeting is open to the public, unless closed pursuant to Utah Code
52.4.201, 52.4.205 and 52.4.206.
Section 1.3.50. Electronic Meetings.
   A.   Procedures Established. The Town of Fairfield is empowered under the
provisions of Utah Code 52-4-207 to establish and implement procedures for the
conduct of electronic meetings.
   B.   Public Interest. The Town Council believes it is in the public interest
to conduct telephonic or electronic conference meetings from time to time to
assure all members of all public bodies organized by the Town Council and
including the members of Town Council, have an opportunity to participate in
their respective meetings regardless of the physical location of the individual
members of their respective councils, commissions, boards or committees.
   C.   Participation in Electronic Meetings. A public body may convene
electronic meetings when necessary. Unless otherwise indicated on the meeting
agenda, public body members may participate in all meetings electronically. It
shall be the responsibility of each body member to contact the meeting
administrator prior to the meeting to assure that facilities are set up for the
meeting to participate electronically.
   D.   Quorum Must Be Present. No electronic meeting shall be convened unless
a quorum of the public body is able to participate either in person or
electronically in the meeting.
   E.   Meeting Administrator. Each electronic meeting shall be convened by the
meeting administrator by announcing the parties present at the meeting and by
making available to members of the public at the anchor location an amplified
speaker or video monitor enabling members of the public to hear the comments of
public body members and the conduct of the meeting.
   F.   Maximum Number of Members to Participate. No more than three (3)
members of the public body may participate in the meeting by electronic means
at one time. There must always be at least two (2) public body members at the
anchor location unless a written determination is made by the chair of the
public body that determines an anchor location presents a substantial risk to
the health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location as
described in Utah state Code 52-4-207
   G.   Disconnect of Electronic Participant(s). Upon determining that a
sufficient number of the public body is present for the meeting to be convened
and members of the public can adequately hear the comments of all members, the
person conducting the meeting shall formally convene the meeting and take a
roll call of those participating. If a Council member is disconnected during
the meeting, it shall be within the discretion of the Mayor, Councilman or
Chairman to determine whether to continue the meeting without the person or
wait until they can be reconnected.The person conducting the meeting may also
move agenda items to provide time to try to reconnect provided there is still a
quorum connected or otherwise.
   H.   Minutes. In all respects, electronic or telephonic meetings shall be
conducted, recorded and minutes shall be kept as required by law for all other
open and public meetings or for all other record keeping purposes of the Town.
   I.   Catastrophic Events. In the case of a catastrophic event such as an
earthquake, pandemic, etc., where it is necessary to hold a meeting, but not
feasible to assemble in one place, electronic meetings may be held as per Utah
State mandate.
Section 1.3.60. Quorum.
   A.   The number of members of the Town Council necessary to constitute a
quorum is three (3) or more.
   B.   No action of the Town Council shall be official or of any effect,
except when a quorum of the members are present. Fewer than a quorum may
adjourn from time to time.
Section 1.3.70. Voting.
   A.   A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all ordinances,
resolutions and any action which would create a liability against the Town and
in any other case at the request of any member of the Town Council with a “yes”
or a “No” vote. Every resolution or ordinance/code shall be in writing before
the vote is taken.
   B.   The minimum number of votes required to pass any ordinance, resolution
or to take any action by the Town Council, unless otherwise prescribed by law,
shall be a majority of the members of the quorum, but shall never be less than
three (3), regardless of absence or vacancy. Any ordinance, resolution or
motion of the council having fewer favorable votes than required in this
section is defeated and invalid.
Ut. Code 10-3-507(1)(2a)
   C.   A majority of the members of the Town Council, regardless of number,
may fill any vacancy in the Town Council if:
      1.   A vacancy exists in one or more council seats, a majority of the
council members presently occupying council seats, regardless of number, may
vote to fill the vacancy as provided pursuant to section 20A-1-510 of the Ut.
Code. (Ut. Code 10-30507(3)
      2.   More than three (3) council seats need to be filled, the remaining
council members will select replacements until quorum requirements can be met
to fill the remaining seats.
   D.   Any action taken by the Town Council shall not be reconsidered or
rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members of the Town
Council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than the number
of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
Section 1.3.80. Order of Business.
   A.   The Town Recorder shall keep a record of the proceedings of the
meetings of the Town Council, except that minutes of a closed meeting shall not
be available to the public until such time as the Town Council shall make them
public or by an order of the court.
   B.   Except as otherwise specifically required or provided by law, this
code, or by resolution of the Town Council, the most current edition of
Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the procedure and conduct of the meetings
of the Town Council.
   C.   At the time and place set for each meeting of the members of the Town
Council, the business of the Town shall be taken for consideration and
disposition by following the items, in order, on the agenda, unless otherwise
provided by motion of the Town Council.
   D.   The Town Council may, by motion, change, amend or delete any agenda
item provided for in this subsection.
   E.   The Mayor shall be responsible for the content and the order of the
agenda.
   F.   Any Town Council member may add an item to the agenda with the approval
of the Mayor or an additional Councilmember.
Chapter 5
Takings.
   Section
1.5.10.   Policy Considerations.
   Section
1.5.20.   Definitions.
   Section
1.5.30.   Guidelines Advisory.
   Section
1.5.40.   Review of Decision.
   Section
1.5.50.   Review of Guidelines.
   Section
1.5.60.   Results of Review.
Section 1.5.10. Policy Considerations.
   A.   There is an underlying policy in the Town, strongly favoring the
careful consideration of matters involving constitutional taking claims, in
fairness to the owner of private property bringing the claim, and in view of
the uncertainty and expense involved in defending lawsuits alleging such
issues. At the same time, the legitimate role of government in lawfully
regulating real property must be preserved and the public right to require the
dedication or exaction of property consistent with the constitution. Consistent
with this policy, it is desired that a procedure be established for the review
of actions that may involve the issue of a constitutional taking. These
provisions are to assist governments in considering decisions that may involve
constitutional takings.
   B.   It is intended that a procedure for such a review be provided, as well
as guidelines for such consideration. This chapter is further intended and
shall be construed to objectively and fairly review claims by citizens that a
specific government action should require payment of just compensation, yet
preserve the ability of the Town to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill
its other duties and functions.
   C.   Actions by the Town involving the physical taking or exaction of
private real property is not a “constitutional taking” if the physical taking
or exaction:
      1.   Bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest; and
      2.   Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an
individualized property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
proposed development on the legitimate government interest.
Section 1.5.20 Definitions.
   See
Title 12, Definitions.
Section 1.5.30. Guidelines Advisory.
   The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of the Town liability for a constitutional taking. The review in body or
person shall not be required to make a determination under this chapter, except
pursuant to Section
1.5.40 of this Chapter.
Section 1.5.40. Review of Decision.
   A.   Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a
constitutional taking of their private real property shall request a review of
a final decision of any officer, employee, board, commission or council. The
following are specific procedures established for such a review:
      1.   The person requesting a review must have obtained a final and
authoritative determination, internally, within the Town, relative to the
decision from which they are requesting review;
      2.   Within thirty (30) days from the date of the final decision that
gave rise to the concern that a
constitutional taking has occurred, the person requesting the review shall file
in writing, in the office of the Town Recorder, a request for review of that
decision. A copy shall be filed with the Town attorney;
      3.   The Town Council, or an individual or body designated by the Town
Council, shall immediately set a time to review the decision that gave rise to
the constitutional takings claim; and
      4.   In addition to the written request for review, the applicant must
submit, prior to the date of the review, the following:
         a.   Name of the applicant requesting review;
         b.   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form
of ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for profit or not for profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other and, if owned by a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, and address of all principal
shareholder or partners;
         c.   detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
         d.   detailed description of the property taken;
         e.   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property taken,
including the date and cost and the date the property was acquired. This should
include any evidence of the value of the same property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased,
including the relationship, if any, between the person requesting a review and
the party from whom the property was acquired;
         f.   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such
as, but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
         g.   Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of
a full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
         h.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3)
years prior to the date of application;
         i.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for
the previous three (3) years;
         j.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans
secured by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current
interest rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other
significant provisions, including, but t limited to, right of purchasers to
assume the loan;
         k.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
         l.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property; For income producing property,
itemized income and expense statements from the property for the previous three
(3) years;
         m.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
         n.   The Town Council or their designee may request additional
information reasonably necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
      5.   An application shall not be deemed to be “complete” or “submitted”
until the reviewing body/official certifies to the applicant that all the
materials and information required above have been received by the Town. The
reviewing body/official shall promptly notify the applicant of any incomplete
application;
      6.   The Town Council or an individual or body designated by them, shall
hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the applicant, Town or any
other interested party;
      7.   A final decision on the review shall be rendered within fourteen
(14) days from the date the completed application for review has been received
by the Town Recorder. The decision of Town Council regarding the results of the
review shall be given in writing to the applicant and the officer, employee,
body, commission or council that rendered the final decision that gave rise to
the constitutional takings claim; and
      8.   If the Town Council fails to hear and decide the review within
fourteen (14) days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed to be
approved.
Section 1.5.50. Review of Guidelines.
   A.   The Town Council shall review the facts and information presented by
the applicant to determine whether or not the action by the Town constitutes a
constitutional taking, as defined in this chapter. In doing so, they shall
consider:
      1.   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;
      2.   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action
taken by the Town; and
      3.   Is the property and exaction taken, roughly proportionate and
reasonably related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent,
to the impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision
being reviewed.
Section 1.5.60 Results of Review.
   After completing the review, the reviewing person/body shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the Town Council that made the
decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.
Chapter 7.
Construction of Code, Ordinances and Resolutions.
   Section
1.7.10.   Form of Ordinance and Code.
   Section
1.7.20.   Requirements as to Form.
   Section
1.7.30   Resolutions.
Section 1.7.10. Form of Ordinance and Code and Resolutions.
   A.   Any ordinance passed by the Town Council shall contain and be in
substantially the following order and form:
      1.   Title, Section, Name and Ordinance Number:
         a.   Title refers to the category the ordinance falls under such as
Land Use (#10), ect.;
         b.   Section refers to the section where the ordinance is found within
the Title;
         c.   Name indicates the nature of the subject matter of the ordinance
(such as FF Soil Ordinance); and
         d.   Ordinance number shall be the date the ordinance was passed and
shall be written in the following order: month, day and 4 digit year.
      2.   Document Change line showing all changes and revisions of said
ordinance and the date the changes or revisions were made;
      3.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      4.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
Town ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation it establishes;
      5.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      6.   A line for the signature of the mayor or mayor pro tem to sign the
ordinance;
      7.   A line for each council person to sign and mark how they voted; and
      8.   A line for the signature of the Town Recorder to attest to the
ordinance and affix the seal of the Town.
   B.   Code Structure. Any code passed by the Town Council shall contain and
be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   This code maintains a structure by subject matter using a period-
separated numbering system identifying the title, chapter, and section (for
example: 1.1.10.). This complete set of numbers is designed to aid in searching
the book, and to assist in subsequent codification as new legislation is added:
         a.   The first number in the sequence (1.1.10) designates the Title
level. Title refers to the category the code falls under such as Land Use
(Title 10), ect.;
         b.   The second series of numbers (1.1.10) designates the chapter
level. The chapter indicates the nature of the subject matter of the ordinance
(such as Building Requirements); and
         c.   The last series (1.1.10.) designates the section level.
      2.   Document Change line showing all changes and revisions of said code
and the date the changes or revisions were made:
         a.   Example - 1.1.140. Fire Chief.
            Cedar Valley Fire Chief shall be the Fire Chief of Fairfield Town.
            (Document Changes - HISTORY Revised by Ord. 2018-03 )
      3.   Vacant Titles,Chapters and Sections:
         a.   Chapters have been numbered using odd numbers to leave room for
future expansion;
         b.   Sections have been numbered in multiples of ten (10) to leave
room for future expansion; and
         c.   Wherein sequential numbers are missing, they are designed as such
for future internal expansion. Titles and sections marked as “(Reserved)”,
allow for future expansion when/if the need arises.
Section 1.7.20. Requirements as to Form.
   A.   Ordinances/Code passed or enacted by the Town Council shall be signed
by the Mayor, or if absent, signed by the Mayor pro tempore, by the Town
Council members present and attested by the Town Recorder. Ordinances are
required to be signed in order to be enforced.
   B.   Ordinances shall become effective upon final passage by the Town
Council. Ordinances may become effective at a later date if so provided in the
ordinance.
   C.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become effective
twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days after final
passage by the Town Council, whichever is sooner.
Section 1.7.30 Resolutions.
   A.   Purposes; Restrictions. Unless otherwise required by law, the Town
Council may exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but
not limited to:
      1.   Establishing water rates;
      2.   Charges for garbage collection and fees charged for Town services;
      3.   Establishing personnel policies and guidelines;
      4.   Regulating the use and operation of the Town property; but
      5.   Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
   B.   Form. Any resolution passed by the Town Council shall be in a form and
contain sections and chapters substantially similar to that prescribed by
ordinances.
   C.   Publication; Effective Date of Resolutions. Resolutions may become
effective without publication or posting and may take effect upon passage or at
a later date as the Town Council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. Resolutions
shall be posted in three places and put on the Utah Public Notice Website.
Chapter 9.
Purchasing.
   Section
1.9.10.   Purposes.
   Section
1.9.20.   Compliance and Exemptions.
   Section
1.9.30.   Definitions.
   Section
1.9.40.   Purchasing Agent.
   Section
1.9.50.   Source Selection and Contract Information.
   Section
1.9.60.   Specifications.
   Section
1.9.70.   Appeals.
   Section
1.9.80.   Ethics in Public Contracting.
   Section
1.9.90.   Purchasing, Non-Contractual Purchases.
   Section
1.9.100.   Petty Cash.
   Section
1.9.110.   Reimbursements.
   Section
1.9.120.   Debit/Credit Cards.
   Section
1.9.130.   Checks.
Section 1.9.10. Purposes.
   A.   The Town is desirous of establishing policies and procedures to be
followed in the purchasing of goods and services required for efficient
operation of the Town.The underlying purposes of this policy are to:
      1.   Ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to, or
do conduct business with the Town;
      2.   Provide for the greatest possible economy in Town procurement
activities; and
      3.   Foster effective broad based competition within the enterprise
system to ensure that the Town will receive the best possible service or
product at the lowest possible price.
Section 1.9.20. Compliance and Exemptions.
   A.   This chapter shall not prevent the Town from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
   B.   When a procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance
funds, the Town shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations.
Section 1.9.30. Definitions.
   See
Title 12, Definitions.
Section 1.9.40. Purchasing Agent.
   The purchasing agent assigned to a department shall be responsible to make
procurements, solicit bids and proposals, enter into and administer contracts,
and make written determinations for the Town. All contracts shall be approved
by the Town Council in a public meeting and shall be countersigned by the Town
Recorder.
Section 1.9.50. Source Selection and Contract Formation.
   A.   Purchases not Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Purchases and expenditures of less than $5,000 shall not require
bids or quotes of any type but are subject to the general policy of this
chapter. These purchases and expenditures are intended to include materials,
supplies and services regularly purchased and consumed by the Town such as
office supplies, janitorial supplies, postage, food and beverages, water system
supplies, etc.
      2.   Any contract, purchase, purchase order, check request, or service
request for non professional services and supplies or building improvements in
the total amount of $5,000 or less may be made or approved by the Mayor or
department head, or an employee or supervisor authorized to make such purchase,
purchase order, check request, or service request.
      3.   All purchases and expenditures of more than $5,000 but less than
$10,000 shall require two documented price quotes unless the purchase or
expenditure is exempt from the competitive bidding requirement of this chapter
or requires a sealed bid. These purchases require the approval of the Town
Council.
      4.   All purchases and expenditures of more than $10,000 shall require a
minimum of three documented price quotes unless the purchase or expenditure is
exempt from the competitive bidding requirement of this chapter or the purchase
expenditure requires a sealed bid. The Town Council may approve a purchase or
expenditure without the required price quotes if they determine that there are
not three additional vendors or suppliers of such items.
      5.   Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts
administered by the state division of purchasing;
      6.   Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an imminent threat to
the public health, welfare or safety. However, as much competition as practical
should be obtained and such purchases should be limited to amounts necessary to
the resolution of the emergency; and
      7.   Purchases in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) require
Town Council approval.
   B.   Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Contracts shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding, except as
otherwise provided by this chapter;
      2.   An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to be
awarded by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall include a purchase
description and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the
procurement. Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be given at least
twenty one (21) days prior to the date set forth herein for the opening of
bids. The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general circulation;
      3.   Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more
witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The
amount of each bid and any other relevant information, together with the name
of each bidder, shall be recorded. The record and each bid shall be open to
public inspection;
      4.   Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alteration or
correction, except as authorized in this chapter. Bids shall be evaluated based
on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids;
      5.   After bid opening, no changes in bid prices or other provisions of
bids prejudicial to the interest of the town or fair competition shall be
permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of bids or to
cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported by a
written determination made by the purchasing agent;
      6.   Award shall be made to the responsible bidder whose proposal shall
be determined to be the most advantageous to the Town, taking into
consideration quality of work, price, experience and the criteria set forth in
the bid invitation.
      7.   When no bids are submitted, the purchasing agent may obtain bids by
other means approved by the Town Council.
   C.   Cancellation and Rejection of Bids. An invitation for bids, a request
for proposals or other solicitation may be canceled, or any or all bids or
proposals may be rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
solicitation, when it is in the best interests of the Town. The reasons shall
be made part of the contract file.
   D.   Use Of Competitive Sealed Proposals In Lieu Of Bids. When the
purchasing agent determines in writing that the use of competitive sealed
bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to the Town, a contract
may be entered into by competitive sealed proposals. Competitive sealed
proposals are most appropriately used for professional service type contracts:
      1.   Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals. Public
notice of the request for proposals shall be given at least twenty one (21)
days prior to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals;
      2.   Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiation. A register of proposals
shall be prepared and shall be open for public inspection after contract award;
      3.   The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of
price and other evaluating factors;
      4.   Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and revisions may be
permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining
best and final offers. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure
of any information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors;
      5.   Award shall be made to the person whose proposal is determined, in
writing, to be the most advantageous to the Town, taking into consideration
price and the evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. No
other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The contract file
shall contain the basis on which the award is made; and
      6.   Architect, Engineer Services. Architect and engineer services are
qualification based procurements. Requests for such services should be publicly
announced. Contracts should be negotiated by the Town based on demonstrated
competence at fair and reasonable prices.
   E.   Determination Of Nonresponsibility Of Bidder. Determination of
nonresponsibility of a bidder or
offeror shall be made in writing. The unreasonable failure of a bidder or
offeror to promptly supply information in connection with an inquiry with
respect to responsibility may be grounds for a determination of
nonresponsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror. Information furnished
by a bidder or offeror pursuant to this subsection shall not be disclosed
outside of the purchasing division without prior written consent by the bidder
or offeror.
   F.   Cost Plus A Percentage Of Cost Contracts Prohibited. Subject to the
limitations of this section, any type of contract which will promote the best
interests of the Town may be used; provided that the use of a cost plus a
percentage of cost contract is prohibited. A cost reimbursement contract may be
used only when a determination is made in writing that such contract is likely
to be less costly to the Town than any other type or that it is impracticable
to obtain the supplies, services or construction required except under such a
contract.
   G.   Required Contract Clauses:
      1.   The unilateral right of the Town to order, in writing, changes in
the work within the scope of the contract that do not alter the scope of the
contract work;
      2.   Variations occurring between estimated quantities of work in a
contract and actual quantities; and
      3.   Suspension of work ordered by the Town;
Section 1.9.60. Specifications.
   All specifications shall seek to promote overall economy and best use for
the purposes intended and encourage competition in satisfying the Towns needs,
and shall not be unduly restrictive. Where practical and reasonable, and within
the scope of this chapter, Utah and local products shall be given preference.
Section 1.9.70. Appeals.
   A.   Time Limit For Filing. Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror or
contractor who is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a
contract may appeal to the purchasing agent. An appeal shall be submitted in
writing within five (5) working days after the aggrieved person knows or should
have known of the facts.
   B.   Decision. The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a written decision
regarding any appeal if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision
shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protestor,
contractor or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the Town
Council.
   C.   Appeal To Town Council. The Town Council shall be the final appeal on
the Town level.
   D.   Appeal To Court. All further appeals shall be handled as provided in
Utah Code Annotated sections 63G-6a-1701 et seq., 63G-6a-1801 et seq., and 63G-
6a-1901 et seq.
Section 1.9.80. Ethics in Public Contracting.
   A.   No person involved in making procurement decisions may have personal
investments in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict
between their private interests and their public duties.
   B.   Any person involved in making procurement decisions is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor if the person asks, receives or offers to receive any
emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan or reward, or any promise thereof,
either for the person’s own use or benefit of any other person or organization
from any person or organization interested in selling to the Town. Violators
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1.1.90 of this title.
Section 1.9.90. Purchasing, Non-Contractual Purchases.
   Purchases in excess of five thousand ($5,000.00) must follow the bidding
process as defined in Title
1.9.50. or be approved by a majority vote of the Town Council. Purchases over
fifteen hundred dollars ($1500.00) must be approved by the Town Council.
Section 1.9.100. Petty Cash.
   The Town of Fairfield retains no petty cash. All accounts payable shall be
paid by check or debit/credit card.
Section 1.9.110. Reimbursements.  
   Any individual that is authorized by the Town to use personal cash, debit
cards or credit cards to purchase supplies, fuel, etc. and expects to be
reimbursed for the purchase by the Town of Fairfield shall retain a receipt for
the amount of the purchase and turn the receipt in to the Town Recorder/Clerk
or the Director of Finance. No reimbursements will be made without a receipt.
Section 1.9.120. Debit/Credit Cards.
   A.   Town Credit Cards shall be used for official business in accordance
with the following procedures:
      1.   Credit card use cannot in any fashion be used to avoid adopted
Purchasing Policies. Employees shall use existing accounts with vendors;
      2.   The credit card shall only be used by the card holder or authorized
representative, and the card holder is personally responsible for all purchases
made on such credit card;
      3.   Upon receiving a credit card receipt, employees shall record the
following information on the receipt: Employees shall sign, date and provide a
description of purchase. Employees shall submit the receipt to the Town
Recorder within seven (7) days from the date of purchase;.
      4.   Credit cards shall not be used for personal purchases;
      5.   Stolen or lost credit cards must be reported promptly to the the
Town Treasurer but in no event later than the close of business on the next
business day after the card is lost or stolen; and
      6.   Nomore than five (5) purchases shall be made within a monthly
billing cycle from any one credit card holder. If additional purchases are
necessary they may be approved by the Mayor or Treasurer.
Section 1.9.130. Checks.
   Checks will be written by the Town Recorder or Director of Finance only
after verification that funds are available in that specific general ledger
account. Checks will be approved by the Town Treasurer and signed by any two of
the following: Town Treasurer, Town Council member, and/or Mayor.
Chapter 10.
Surplus Property.
Section 1.10.10. Definition.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
   Personal Property. Means tangible Town property that is movable.
   Real Property. Means fixed property, principally land and buildings.
Rev. ord. 09122023-3, passed 9-12-2023.
Section 1.10.20. Disposal of Surplus Property.
   A.   Compliance Required: No Town owned personal property, except personal
property that is consumed in normal operations, shall be disposed of or
released to ownership by anyone other than the Town, unless the transaction is
in compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Notification; Transfer: Whenever Town owned property is surplus,
unused, obsolete, unsuitable or otherwise no longer needed, the Mayor shall
promptly notify the Town Council or a designee. The Town Council or their
designee shall then notify other town departments of the availability of such
property. The Mayor or a designee shall supervise the transfer of such property
to the department requesting the property and adjust the Town inventory control
to document the transfer. If no use can be made of the property or is expected
to be made within a reasonable timeframe, the property shall be disposed of as
provided below.
   C.   Personal Property Exceeding Two Thousand Dollars In Value: The Mayor or
a designee shall prepare and present a listing to the Town Council of all town
owned personal property with an estimated value of equal to or exceeding two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) that is deemed no longer needed by the town and
which can be declared surplus by resolution of the Town Council. The Mayor or a
designee shall proceed to sell such surplus property based on the highest and
best economic return to the Town. The highest and best economic return to the
Town as referred to above, shall be determined by one or more of the following
methods: 1) advertised competitive bid (including auction); 2) evaluation by a
qualified and disinterested appraiser; 3) other professional publication and
valuation service; or 4) an informal market survey by the Mayor or a designee.
The Mayor shall determine the best forum for the sale of the personal property
so long as a notice of the sale has been posted on the Town website and at
least one public place ten (10) days prior to the event. Monetary proceeds from
the sale or other disposition of such property pursuant to this section shall
be credited to the fund that originally purchased the property, if it can be
determined. If the fund from which the property was originally purchased cannot
be determined, the default fund shall be the general fund. Property initially
valued at over two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) that does not sell shall be
disposed of as described in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Personal Property Valued Two Thousand Dollars Or Less: All personal
property with a value of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) or less as estimated
by the Mayor or designee may be disposed of at the discretion of the Mayor or
designee, with the consent of the Town Council after compliance with subsection
B of this section. Disposal of personal property may include, but is not
limited to, donating property to a bona fide charity or transferring property
to a salvage or junk yard, or landfill if a buyer cannot be found.
   E.   Except as otherwise required by State law, boundary line agreements and
deeds conveying unneeded portions of rights of way or easements may be executed
without declaring the property surplus.
   F.   Before disposing of a significant parcel of real property, the Town
shall comply with the provisions of Utah Code Ann. §10-8-2(4). For purposes of
this section, a significant parcel of real property is defined to be any parcel
with a value equal to or greater than $100,000.00. Reasonable notice shall
constitute posting a written notice on the property fourteen (14) days prior to
a public hearing concerning the disposition.
Rev. ord. 09122023-3, passed 9-12-2023.
Chapter 11
Annexation Policy.
Section 1.11.10. State Statute Adopted.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of Utah Code Annotated 10-2-4, as amended, are hereby adopted by the
Town.
Chapter 13
Capital Improvement Fund.
   Section
1.13.10.    Capital Improvement Fund.
   Section
1.13.20.    Funding.
Section 1.13.10. Capital Improvement Fund.
   There is created a Fairfield Town Capital Improvement Fund in accordance
with Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-116(5) for the purpose of accumulating
and setting aside funds for the acquisition, repair and replacement of public
property, structures and other improvements including, but not necessarily
limited to, public safety equipment and facilities, streets, sidewalks, public
buildings, library, parks, equipment and other public property or improvements.
Section 1.13.20. Funding.
   The Fairfield Town Capital Improvement Fund shall be funded from year to
year as funds are available and allocable pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 10-6-116
TITLE 2.
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
Chapter 1
Cemetery Board.
   Section
2.1.10.   Purpose.
   Section
2.1.20.   Board Established.
   Section
2.1.30.   Election of Cemetery Board Officers.
   Section
2.1.40.   Duties of Cemetery Board.
   Section
2.1.50.   Appointment and Compensation.
   Section
2.1.60.   Power and Authority of Cemetery Board.
   Section
2.1.70.   Cemetery Maintenance.
   Section
2.1.80.   Space for Cemetery Board Meetings and Cemetery Equipment.
   Section
2.1.90.   Funding.
   Section
2.1.100.   Annual Reports.
   Section
2.1.110.   Unlawful Acts.
   Section
2.1.120.   Penalty.
Section 2.1.10. Purpose.
   The Fairfield Town Cemetery Board of Directors (hereinafter in this Title
may be referred to as “Cemetery Board” or “Board.”) is hereby established for
the purpose of enhancing the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the Fairfield Town Cemetery. The cemetery shall be managed and operated by
the Cemetery Board pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Section 2.1.20. Board Established.
   A.   Cemetery Board. There is hereby created and established a Cemetery
Board of Directors of the Fairfield Town Cemetery, which shall consist of three
to five (3-5) members who shall be residents of the Town of Fairfield. Only one
member of the Town Council is allowed to be a member of the Cemetery Board at
any given time. All Directors shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the Town Council, for terms as set forth below or until their
respective successors are appointed.
   B.   Terms of Members:
      1.   The Board shall consist of three to five (3-5) members, to be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council.
      2.   Each member of the Board shall serve for a term of five (5) years or
until his successor is appointed. Terms shall begin on July 1st. of each year.
Members’ terms shall be staggered so that no more than one(1) members’ term
expires each year. Vacancies shall be promptly filled in the same manner as the
original appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term.
      3.   A board member shall not be automatically re-appointed to a second
term.
      4.   Board members shall be residents of Fairfield Town for at least six
(6) months prior to appointment.
      5.   Board members may be removed by the Mayor for the failure of duties,
with the advice and consent of the Town Council.
Section 2.1.30. Election of Cemetery Board Officers.
   A Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be elected by a majority of the
Cemetery Board annually at the next regularly scheduled meeting after June 30
and at other times as required. A quorum must be present to elect the
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. If a quorum is lacking, the Board will hold
an election at the next regularly scheduled meeting at which a quorum is
available.
      1.   The Chair and Vice-Chair shall serve terms of one (1) year. No
member shall serve as Chair for more than three (3) consecutive terms.
      2.   In the absence of the Chair, the Vice-Chair shall have all the power
of the Chair. 
      3.   The Chairperson shall preside at all Cemetery Board meetings and
have the powers generally assigned to such offices in conducting the meetings.
      4.   Other Responsibilities of Chair, Delegation to Vice-Chair. The Chair
may delegate duties to the Vice-Chair, or may authorize the Vice-Chair to
perform specific duties during his/her absence or in the case of his/her
disability to perform necessary Board functions in a timely manner.
      5.   Managerial Responsibilities. The Chair shall conduct all meetings of
the Cemetery Board, interface with the Mayor in the conduct and affairs of the
Board and exercise management of the affairs of the Board consistent with these
rules, Fairfield Town and State Law.
Section 2.1.40. Duties of the Cemetery Board.
   A.   Agendas.
      1.   The agenda for each meeting of the board shall be prepared by the
Chairperson or the    Chairperson’s designee and said agenda shall cover all
matters of business pertaining to the operation of the cemetery that is in need
of discussion or approval at that time.
      2.   Items to be added to the agenda must be approved by the Chair or
designee.
      3.   The agenda may be divided into sections and continue at subsequent
meetings when it is apparent that one meeting will not be sufficient to
complete the scheduled business.
       4.   Copies of the agenda will be available to all Board members at
least two days prior to a regular meeting date and be posted in three (3)
public places and on the Public Meeting Website twenty-four (24) hours in
advance of the meeting.
   B.   Minutes. Written minutes shall be kept of all regular and special
meetings and shall be transmitted to board members following such meetings. A
permanent set of minutes shall be maintained at the Town Offices, and all
records of the Board shall be open to inspection during normal business hours.
Copies of the minutes shall be on the Public Meeting Website.
   C.    Volunteers. Members of the Cemetery Board shall be deemed “volunteers”
for the purposes of the Town ordinances/code, rules, regulations, and policies
concerning personnel; provided, however, members shall be considered
"employees" for the purposes of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act.
   D.   Regular Meetings. The Cemetery Board shall meet in regular meetings at
a time designated by the Directors. Special meetings may be convened at any
time as determined by the Town Council or the chairperson of the board upon
giving notice to all members of the Cemetery Board. The absence of a member of
the board from three (3) regular meetings in any four (4) month period shall
have the effect of vacating the office of the member unless such absence is
authorized or approved by Board action. All meetings must comply with Utah Code
Annotated Title 52, chapter 4, as amended, relating to open and public meetings
Section 2.1.50. Appointment and Compensation.
   A.   Appointment and Compensation of Sexton. The Cemetery Board of Directors
shall recommend a qualified person as Sexton to have immediate charge of the
cemetery with such duties and compensation for his/her services as it shall fix
and determine The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, shall
appoint a Sexton upon the recommendation of the Board. The Sexton shall act as
the executive officer for the Cemetery Board. The Board shall appoint, upon the
recommendation of the Sexton, other personnel as needed.
   Upon request of the Board, and with the advice and consent of the Mayor and
Town Council, the Sexton may also be deemed a Town employee. The Sexton may be
compensated as approved by the Council.
   B.   Appointment of Secretary; Duties and Compensation. The Mayor of
Fairfield, with the approval of the Town Council, shall appoint a secretary to
act as the Secretary to serve the Cemetery Board. The Secretary or designee
shall takes minutes of all proceedings of the Board, which minutes shall be the
official record of all proceedings before the Board, as approved by a majority
vote of the members of the Board in attendance at a meeting where a Quorum has
been established. The minutes of all meetings of the Board shall be filed in
the office of the Town Recorder. All such records shall be available for public
review and access in accordance with GRAMA. All posting of agendas and minutes
need to be made by the Town Recorder or Deputy Recorder.
   Upon the request of the Board, and with the advice and consent of the Mayor
and Town Council, the Secretary or designee may be deemed a Town employee. The
Secretary may be compensated as approved by the Council.
   C.   Compensation for Cemetery Board of Directors. Cemetery Board Directors
shall serve on a voluntary basis without compensation, but their actual and
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties shall
be paid from cemetery funds.
   D.   Use of Volunteers or Town Employees and Compensation. Upon request by
the Cemetery Board, the Mayor or designee may provide the Cemetery Board with
volunteers or Town employees and employee management, pursuant to the pay range
tables and other employee policies established for Town employees. The funding,
if approved for said employees, shall come from the cemetery budget.
   E.   Non-Paid Town Official. Any individual that has served as Mayor or on
the Town Council or in any capacity as elected or appointed for four (4) years
without compensation may purchase two (2) cemetery plots at a reduced rate as
listed in the Fairfield Town Fee Schedule.
Section 2.1.60. Power and Authority of Cemetery Board.
   A.   The board has the authority, consistent with Fairfield Town and Utah
State Statute, to adopt policies and procedures for the Fairfield Town
Cemetery.
   B.   Upon the approval of the Town Council, the Cemetery Board shall:
      1.   Have control of the expenditures of the cemetery fund, in
coordination with the Mayor, or designee, and within the purchasing policies
and budgets established by the Town Council;
      2.   Have control of the construction, lease, or sale of cemetery
buildings and the operation and care of the cemetery;
      3.   Except as set forth in this chapter or by resolution, all other
administrative control with respect to the cemetery is reserved for the Mayor
or designee;
      4.   Act as an advisory board to the Town Council on all policy and
budgetary matters pertaining to the cemetery and to the Mayor in respect to the
administrative powers reserved to the Mayor in this title.
Section 2.1.70. Cemetery Maintenance.
   The Cemetery Board shall be in charge of the care and maintenance of the
cemetery. They shall establish policies for its operation and, in general,
carry out the spirit and intent of the state law as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 9-7-401 et seq., as amended.
Section 2.1.80. Space for Cemetery Board Meetings and Equipment.
   The Town staff shall establish and furnish suitable space for the meetings
and business of the Cemetery Board.  They shall also provide needed storage
space for cemetery equipment as needed.
Section 2.1.90. Funding.
   A.   At the beginning of each year, a preliminary budget shall be prepared
by the Cemetery Board and staff for the following fiscal year, which runs from
July 1 to June 30. The budget draft shall be submitted to the Mayor by April
1st for inclusion in the Town budget to be presented at a public hearing with
final approval by the Town Council at a regular Town Council Meeting.
   B.   All tax monies received for the cemetery, monies received from the sale
of burial plots, as well as donated monies, shall be deposited in the Town
treasury to the credit of the cemetery fund and shall not be used for any other
purpose except that of the Fairfield Town Cemetery. Said fund shall be drawn
upon by the authorized officers of the Town upon presentation of properly
authenticated vouchers.
Section 2.1.100. Annual Reports.
   The Cemetery Board shall make an annual report to the Town Council on the
condition and operation of the cemetery, including a financial statement. The
Board shall also provide for the keeping of such records.
Section 2.1.110. Unlawful Acts.
   Itshall be unlawful for any person to mark, deface, mutilate or destroy any
gravestone or other property of the cemetery.
Section 2.1.120. Penalty.
   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
Class B Misdemeanor.
TITLE 3.
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS.
Chapter 1.
Business License Procedures.
   Section
3.1.10.   Definitions.
   Section
3.1.20.   License Required.
   Section
3.1.30.   License Application Process.
   Section
3.1.40.   Fees.
   Section
3.1.50.    Reciprocal Licenses; No Fee Required.
   Section
3.1.60.    Term of License; Certificate Form; Non-Transferrable.
   Section
3.1.70.    Issuance of Certificate.
   Section
3.1.80.    Separate License for Each Location.
   Section
3.1.90.    Inspections.
   Section
3.1.100.    Code Compliance.
   Section
3.1.110.   Records Maintained.
   Section
3.1.120.    Display of License.
   Section
3.1.130.    Suspension or Revocation of License.
   Section
3.1.140   Appeal Process.
Section 3.1.10. Definitions.
   See
Title 12. Definitions.
Section 3.1.20. License Required.
   Unless exempted by State, Federal or local law, it shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in business within the Town, whether on a temporary or
permanent basis, without first procuring the license from the Town of
Fairfield.
Section 3.1.30. License Application Process and Renewal.
   A.   Application Process for Approved Uses:
      1.   Fill out business license application;
      2.   Pay all appropriate fees;
      3.   One member of the Planning Commission and one member of the Town
Council shall review the application for approval;
      4.   Fire inspection may be required;
      5.   Mayor signs business license, if approved (No license is valid
without the Mayor's signature);
      6.   Licensing Official issues approved business license to the
applicant; and
      7.   Licensing Official mails approved permit to applicant.
   B.   Application Process for Conditional Uses. See Title 10.17. Conditional
Uses .
   C.   Non Use. An applicant may apply for a zone change to have a use added
to a particular zone. See Title 10.11.60. Rezoning.
   D.   Renewal of License. All business licenses shall be renewable annually
and the term shall run concurrent with the fiscal year which runs from July 1
to June 30. Licensees shall be billed by the Town Recorder.
   E.   Home Occupation Business. See Title 3.5.00. Home Based Business.
   F.   Fire Inspections. Fire inspections are required for all businesses who
have walk-in customers, hazardous materials, or employees. Other businesses may
require a fire inspection if the Building Department or the Planning Commission
believe it to be appropriate. All businesses shall comply with the standards
and requirements of Fairfield Town, the International Building Code, State and
Federal Codes and any requirements the Building Authority and/or Fire Chief
deem necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
   G.   License. All licenses shall be issued by the Licensing Official, and
signed by the Mayor. The Licensing Official shall keep an alphabetical list of
the licenses issued, stating the number, name of applicant, time, place and
kind of business, and the amount paid, with such remarks as may be considered
necessary.
   H.   The licensing official shall be the Town Recorder.
   I.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be the Mayor, Fire Chief or Code
Enforcement Officer appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town
Council.
Rev. ord. 07112023, passed 7-11-2023.
Section 3.1.40. Fees.
   A.   The Town Council shall, by resolution, establish the amount of license
fees and the terms and conditions thereof, copies of which shall be available
for public inspection at the office of the Town Recorder.
   B.   Every person intending to engage in business shall, before commencing
business, obtain a license and pay to the Town the minimum fee in such amount
as established by the Town Council required for the type of business being
conducted.
   C.   An employee who is not a partner or owner shall not be required to pay
for an individual license.
   D.   Business license fees shall be paid in advance for the term of the
license.
   E.   Refunds or Rebates:
      1.   License fees shall not be refunded because the business or activity
for which the same was obtained has been discontinued for any reason: and
      2.   No rebate shall be allowed upon any license.
   F.   Changes to Business. If there is a change in the name of the business
or address, or owners are different from what is shown on the Licensing
Officials’ records, the licensee or new business owner shall be required to
apply for a new business license and new inspections and fees shall apply. See
section
3.1.60(3).
   G.   Failure To Obtain License: Any person doing business without a license
when a license is required, including circumstances where a license has
expired, been suspended or revoked, shall, in addition to applicable criminal
penalty, be required to pay double of all applicable licensing fees.
   H.   Failure To Pay Renewal Fee; Late Fee: If the license renewal fee is not
paid on or before July 15 of the year in which the renewal license is due,
there shall be a business license enforcement fee imposed If the license
renewal fee is not paid in full on or before August 15 of the year in which the
renewal fee is due, the business license enforcement fee shall be increased. If
the renewal license fee is not paid on or before September 1 of the year in
which the renewal fee is due, the business license enforcement fee shall be
increased to one hundred percent (100%) of the license fee imposed by this
chapter.
   I.   Violation; Administrative Penalty. Any person or entity operating a
business in violation of this chapter shall be assessed an administrative
penalty in addition to the fee specified in subsection G of this section. See
FF fee schedule
   J.   Civil Action. There is no right to continue a licensed activity without
the payment of required fees and penalties. In addition to any criminal action,
the Town may bring civil action to collect any delinquent or unpaid fee. In the
event legal action is filed to collect delinquent or unpaid fees, the debtor
shall pay reasonable attorney fees and costs.
Section 3.1.50. No Fee Required.
   A.   Businesses Exempt From License Fee: No business license fee shall be
imposed under this chapter upon the following persons or businesses:
      1.   Any person engaged in business solely religious, charitable,
humanitarian or other types of strictly non-profit purposes who is tax exempt
in such activities under the laws of the United States and the State; nor shall
any business license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business
specifically exempted from Municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the
United States or the State; nor shall any business license fee be imposed on
any non-profit corporation duly incorporated according to the provisions of the
Utah Non-Profit Corporation and Cooperative Association Act;
      2.   Any agent, for so long as the State law exempts them;
      3.   Any sales of merchandise damaged by smoke or fire or bankrupt
concerns, where such stocks have been acquired for merchants of the Town
theretofore, regularly licensed and engaged in business; provided, however, no
such stocks or merchandise shall be augmented by other goods;
      4.   Yard sales. Any person who sells his/her own property which has not
acquired for resale, barter or exchange and who does conduct such sales or act
as a participant by furnishing goods in such a sale not more than four (4) days
in any one calendar month at the same residence; or
      5.   A business that is operated only occasionally and by an individual
who is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Occupational, Professional Businesses Not Exempt. Occupational and
professional licenses are not reciprocal business licenses. Such licensees
shall also take out a Town business license and pay the required license fee.
Section 3.1.60. Term of License; Certificate Form; Non-Transferable.
   A.   Unless otherwise expressly provided, the following shall apply to all
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter:
      1.   All licenses shall be issued for a period of one year, which shall
extend from July 1 to June 30. New license certificates issued between July 1
and April 30 shall be valid through June 30 of the year of issuance unless
revoked. New license certificates issued between May 1 and June 30 may be
prorated and issued through June 30 of year following the year of issuance;
      2.   Every certificate of license shall specify by name of the person to
whom such certificate has been issued, name of the business, type of business,
term of the license with the commencement and expiration dates, and all
conditions and the license number; and
      3.   No license shall be in any manner assignable or transferable;
neither shall it authorize any licensee to do business at any other place than
indicated in such license.
Section 3.1.70 Issuance of Certificate.
   Upon receipt of the license fee, the Town shall issue a license certificate
valid through June 30 of the fee year.
Section 3.1.80 Separate License for Each Location.
   Separate license must be obtained and a separate fee paid for each place of
business for where a business activity is established. Each license shall
authorize the licensee to engage in only that business activity described in
such license and only the location which is indicated thereon. A location shall
be considered separate if it has been assigned a different mailing or street
address. A business that regularly provides goods or service at various
locations in the Town but has no place of business or mailing address shall
still be required to obtain a business license.
Section 3.1.90. Inspections.
   A.   As a condition of the issuance, continuation or renewal of a business
license, the applicant shall, upon reasonable demand, permit continuing
inspections of the place of business or other activity to ensure compliance
with all applicable business, zoning, health, building, fire and/or safety
regulations. The Town Recorder may refuse to issue a license or may suspend or
revoke a license if the applicant or licensee should for any reason fail or
refuse to cooperate with such an inspection. The Fire Department will inspect
businesses with any type of chemicals, employees and/or customers coming onto
the premises to conduct business.
   B.   The Building Department, Fire Department, Health Department or any one
else authorized by the Town Council for code enforcement are hereby authorized
and empowered to examine and inspect all places of business to verify that
businesses authorized by the license issued are carried on in accordance with
this chapter and other applicable laws. They must enter any building or
premises during regular business hours, or, if there are no regular business
hours, shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
persons having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry.
If the property owner or other responsible person refuses entry or inspection
of the property, the commission or department may obtain and execute a search
warrant. The commission or department shall report to the Licensing Official
and the Town Attorney all persons doing business without a license and
instances of conduct by any party or business other than what is covered by the
license issued.
Section 3.1.100. Code Compliance.
   Issuance of a business license does not excuse a licensee from compliance
with applicable zoning, building, fire, health or other regulatory
requirements. No license shall be issued without first obtaining, in writing,
preliminary approval of the business location from the Planning Commission or a
designee indicating that the proposed business complies with the Town zoning
regulations.
Section 3.1.110. Records Maintained.
The Town Recorder shall maintain license registers as a permanent file. All
beer licenses and general business licenses will be kept and maintained for
four (4) years after being issued. Copies of annual license certificates will
be maintained and retained for one (1) year after issued. The index shall state
the license number, names to whom issued, time of issuance and the period
covered, the place of business, the kind of business to be transacted, the
amount paid and such other information as may be considered necessary.
Rev. ord. 07112023, passed 7-11-2023.
Section 3.1.120. Display of License.
   The licensee shall display every certificate of license in a conspicuous
place easily viewed by the public in which the licensed business, trade,
profession or calling is carried on. When such certificate of license has
expired, it shall be removed from public view. A licensee without a fixed place
of business shall carry a certificate of license while engaged in business. It
shall be the duty of each licensee, agent and employee to show the certificate
of license upon demand.
Section 3.1.130. Suspension or Revocation of License.
   A.   The Code Enforcement Officer may suspend or revoke a license if any of
the following conditions apply:
      1.   The license was issued when it should not have been;
      2.   The business fails or refuses to permit or cooperate with an
inspection;
      3.   The business fails to pay the required fees, Personal Property Tax
or other required taxes and fees imposed by the Town, State or Federal
government;
      4.   Continuing operation of the licensed activity that would constitute
a nuisance or present danger to the health, general welfare or morals of the
community; or
      5.   The business is violating this title or any other applicable law,
including zoning, building or health regulations.
Rev. ord. 07112023, passed 7-11-2023.
Section 3.1.140. License Denial and Appeal Process.
   A.   The Town may deny the application for a business license for any of the
following reasons:
      1.   Failure to meet qualifications. The applicant does not meet the
qualifications for a license as provided in this chapter;
      2.   Nonpayment of fees. For a new application, nonpayment of a returned
check for the required license fees at the time the application is made. For a
business license renewal application, nonpayment of the required license fees,
plus any penalty assessed for late payment;
      3.   Disapproval of the reviewing department. One of the reviewing
departments or divisions of the Town provided for in this code has disapproved
the application pursuant to any applicable provision of this code;
      4.   False Information. False or incomplete information given on the
application; or
      5.   Noncompliance. Noncompliance with anyTown, State or Federal
statutes, or any health department regulations governing the applicant’s
proposed business.
   B.   If a business license is denied, suspended or revoked by the Licensing
Official, or if a penalty is imposed, the applicant or licensee may appeal such
action.
   C.   Filing of an appeal must be in written notice within ten (10) days of
the date of service of notice of any denial, qualified approval, suspension,
revocation or penalty. Upon receiving the notice of such appeal, a hearing
shall be scheduled before the Town Council within thirty (30) days from the
date of the appeal, unless such time shall be extended for good cause.
   D.   The Town Council shall hold a public meeting with a record of the
proceedings being kept, and take such facts and evidence as necessary to
determine whether the denial, qualified approval, suspension, revocation or
penalty was properly under law.
   E.   The burden of proof shall be upon the Licensing Official.
   F.   After the meeting, the Town Council shall have fourteen (14) days,
unless extended by good cause, to render findings of fact, conclusion of law
and a recommended decision.
Chapter 3.
Sexually Oriented Business.
   Section
3.3.10.   Purpose and Findings.
   Section
3.3.20.   Definitions.
   Section
3.3.30.   Classification.
   Section
3.3.40.   License Required.
   Section
3.3.50.   Issuance of License.
   Section
3.3.60.   Fees.
   Section
3.3.70.   Inspection.
   Section
3.3.80.   Expiration of License.
   Section
3.3.90.   Suspension.
   Section
3.3.100.   Revocation.
   Section
3.3.110.   Transfer of License.
   Section
3.3.120.   Location of Sexually Oriented Businesses – Penalty.
   Section
3.3.130.   Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of Sexually Explicit Films or
Videos in Viewing Rooms.
   Section
3.3.140.   Additional Regulations for Escort Agencies.
   Section
3.3.150.   Additional Regulations Concerning Licensee Employees.
   Section
3.3.160.   Prohibition Against Children in a Sexually Oriented Business.
   Section
3.3.170.   Hours of Operation.
   Section
3.3.180.   Injunction – Penalty.
Section 3.3.10. Purpose and Findings.
   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the Town, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations applicable thereto. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly,
it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by
adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment to the
United States Constitution, or to deny access by the distributors and
exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither
is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material. It is a purpose of this chapter to protect
the citizenry from the detrimental secondary effects caused by sexually
oriented businesses.
Section 3.3.20. Definitions.
   It is the intent of this section to more fully set forth the meaning of
certain terms and phrases utilized within the zoning ordinance in order to
facilitate understanding of said terms and phrases in the sense intended by the
Fairfield Town Council.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
“shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   Adult Arcade. “Adult Arcade” means any place to which the public is
permitted or invited in which electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc
players, or other image-producing devices, whether coin-operated, slug-
operated, or operated for any form of consideration, are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or
describing of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Store or Adult Video Store. “Adult
Bookstore,” “Adult Novelty Store,” or “Adult Video Store” means a commercial
establishment which, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale
or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
      1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, dvds, video cassettes or video
reproductions, slides, or other visual representations which are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas; or instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed
or marketed for use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      2.   Commercial establishments may have other principal business purposes
that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still
be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials
which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas. It shall constitute a principal
business purpose if the establishment has gross receipts of over 20 percent
from such materials.
   Adult Cabaret. “Adult Cabaret” means a nightclub, bar, restaurant, or
similar commercial establishment which regularly features:
      1.   Persons who appear in a state of dress that covers no more than the
specified anatomical areas;
      2.   Live performances or dancers whose attire covers no more than the
specified anatomical areas; or
      3.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which
   are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Motion Picture Theater. “Adult Motion Picture Theater” means a
commercial establishment where, for any form of consideration, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, DVDs or similar photographic reproductions
are regularly shown which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Theater. “Adult Theater” means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or
similar commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in
a state of dress that covers no more than the specified anatomical areas, or
live performances or dancers whose attire covers no more than the specified
anatomical areas.
   Employee. “Employee” means a person who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor,
agent, or otherwise and whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of the business. “Employee” does not include
a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises
or equipment on the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   Escort. “Escort” means a person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to
act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers
to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a strip tease for another
person.
   Escort Agency. “Escort Agency,” also known as an “outcall service,” means a
person or business association who furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises
to furnish escorts as one of its primary business purposes for a fee, tip, or
other consideration.
   Establishment. “Establishment” means and includes any of the following:
      1.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      2.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      3.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
      4.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   Licensee. “Licensee” means a person in whose name a license to operate a
sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as
an applicant on the application for a license; and in the case of an employee,
a person in whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a
sexually oriented business.
   Sexually Oriented Business. “Sexually Oriented Business” includes, but is
not limited to, an adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, or
escort agency.
   Specified Anatomical Areas. “Specified Anatomical Areas” means:
      1.   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      2.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   Specified Criminal Activity. “Specified Criminal Activity” means any
offense, regardless of title, involving the following:
      1.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling;
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
for which:
         a.   Less than three years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         b.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         c.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 36- month
period.
      2.   That a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the applicant;
   Specified Sexual Activities. “Specified Sexual Activities” means any of the
following offenses:
      1.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      2.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      3.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections (1) and (2) of this definition.
   Substantial Enlargement. “Substantial Enlargement” of a sexually oriented
business means the increase in inventory or floor areas occupied by the
business by more than ten percent, as the floor areas exist on the date the
ordinance codified in this chapter takes effect.
   Transfer of Ownership or Control. “Transfer of Ownership or Control” of a
sexually oriented business means and includes any of the following:
      1.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      2.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      3.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, including transfer by
bequest or other operation of law, upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
Section 3.3.30. Classification.
   A.   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
      1.   Adult arcades;
      2.   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
      3.   Adult cabarets;
      4.   Adult motion picture theaters;
      5.   Adult theaters; and
      6.   Escort agencies.
Section 3.3.40. License Required.
   A.   It is unlawful:
      1.   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the Town pursuant to this
title;
      2.   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ a
person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the Town pursuant to this chapter; or
      3.   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter;
   B.   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
Town official.
   C.   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
title. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the Town to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this title.
   D.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as an applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each person that has a twenty (20) percent or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under Title 3.3.50 and each applicant shall be
considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   E.   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is a minimum of 18 years of
age;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and
the names of all general partners, whether the partnership is general or
limited; if it is a limited partnership, the principal limited partners legally
or equitably holding twenty (20) percent or more of any class of interest or of
the voting, capital, or income interests in the limited partnership, the name
of the registered agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process, and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity of all
officers, directors, and principal stockholders legally or equitably holding
twenty (20) percent or more of any class of stock or of the voting rights in
the corporation, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the address
of the registered office for service of process;
         d.   A limited liability company, the company shall state its complete
name, the date of its organization, evidence that the company is in good
standing under the laws of its state of organization, the names and capacity of
all members with management authority, managers, officers, directors, and
principal members legally or equitably holding twenty (20) percent or more of
any class of interest or of the voting, capital, or income interests in the
company, and the name of the registered agent and the address of the registered
office for service of process; or
         e.   If the applicant is any other form of unincorporated
organization, the organization shall state its type of organization, its state
of organization, complete name, the names of all associates, members, or if
there are more than one hundred (100) of them, principal associates or members
legally or equitably holding twenty (20) percent or more of any class of
interest or of the voting, capital, or income interests in the organization,
the names and capacity of all associates or members with management authority,
managers, officers, directors, and fiduciaries, and the name of the registered
agent and the address of the registered office for service of process, and a
copy of any organizational documents.
      2.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state the
sexually oriented business’s fictitious name and submit the required
registration documents;
      3.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each;
      4.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, or
any person described in subsection (E)(1) of this section with respect to the
applicant, has had a previous license under this title, or other similar
sexually oriented business ordinances from another town or county, denied,
suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the
date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a
person residing with the applicant or any person described in subsection (E)(1)
of this section with respect to the applicant, has been:
         a.   A general partner or principal limited partner in a partnership
or
         b.   An officer, director, or principal stockholder of a corporation
or
         c.   A manager, member with management authority, officer, or
principal member of a limited liability company or
         d.   An officer, director, fiduciary, associate or member with
management authority, manager, or principal associate or manager of any other
unincorporated organization, that is or was licensed under this title whose
license has previously been denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name
and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of the denial, suspension, or
revocation.
      5.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant or
any person described in subsection (E)(1) of this section with respect to the
applicant, holds any other licenses under this title or other similar sexually
oriented business ordinance from another town or county and, if so, the names
and locations of such other licensed businesses;
      6.   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing;
      7.   The location of a proposed sexually oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street address, town, and telephone number
(s), if any;
      8.   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address and this
same information with respect to any person described in subsection (E)(1) of
this section with respect to the applicant;
      9.   A recent photograph of the applicant(s) (if individuals) and of any
persons described in subsection (E)(1) of this section with respect to the
applicant;
      10.   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number,
and state or federally issued tax or employer identification numbers, and this
same information with respect to any person described in subsection (E)(1) of
this section with respect to the applicant;
      11.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six (6) inches;
      12.   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the proper
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented businesses
within two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet of the property to be certified;
the property lines of any established church, religious institution, or
synagogue, school, or public park or recreation area within 2,500 feet of the
property to be certified. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted;
      13.   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing room or booth of less than
one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, films, videocassettes,
other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant shall comply with
the application requirements set forth in Title 3.3.130; and
      14.   If the property on which the sexually oriented business is to be
located is owned by any person or entity other than the applicant, the
applicant shall submit a letter, signed by the owner, stating that the
applicant has fully disclosed to the owner that the business to be operated is
a sexually oriented business, and that the type and nature of the inventory has
also been disclosed.
   F.   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form, to be provided by the
Town licensing official the following information:
      1.   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “stage” names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      2.   Age, date, and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Present business address and telephone number;
      6.   Date, issuing state, and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information;
      7.   Social Security number; and
      8.   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
      9.   A background security check with the application, for all
individuals listed on the application. (fees paid for by applicants)
   G.   Attached to the application form for a sexually oriented business
employee license, as provided above, shall be the following:
      1.   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the police
department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant;
      2.   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state, or country, any other sexually
oriented business, has ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do
business denied, revoked, or suspended, or had any professional or vocational
license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such
denial, revocation, or suspension, state the name, the name of the issuing or
denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the reason for the denial,
revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation, or
suspension shall be attached to the application;
      3.   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the
date, place and jurisdiction of each;
Section 3.3.50. Issuance of License.
   A.   Employee License. Upon the filing of an application for a sexually
oriented business employee license, the application shall be referred to the
appropriate town departments for an investigation to be made on such
information as is contained on the application. The application process shall
be completed within 30 days from the date the completed application is filed.
After the investigation, the Town shall issue a license, unless it is
determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following
findings is true:
      1.   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      2.   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity,
as defined in this chapter;
      4.   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this title; or
      5.   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the Town within three years of the date of the current application.
However, if the revocation was based on a criminal conviction, no application
will be accepted for five years from the termination of all probation, formal
or informal, and all other sentencing conditions. Denial, suspension, or
revocation of a license issued pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to
appeal as set forth in this chapter and title.
   B.   Sexually Oriented Business License. Within thirty (30) days after
receipt of a completed sexually oriented business application, the Town shall
complete its investigation and shall approve or deny the issuance of a license
to an applicant. The Town shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one
or more of the following findings is true:
      1.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   An applicant, or a person with whom applicant is residing, is
overdue in payment to the Town of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      3.   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      4.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the Town to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      5.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity;
      6.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the health department, fire department, and the building and
zoning officials as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      7.   The license fee required by this title has not been paid; or
      8.   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of the Town’s ordinances, or of
state law;
   C.   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the town
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity or
committed any act during the existence of the previous license which would be
grounds to deny the initial license application. The renewal of the license
shall be subject to the payment of a fee as described in this chapter.
   D.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to Section
3.3.30. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   E.   The health department, fire department, and the building and zoning
officials shall complete their certification that the premises is in compliance
or not in compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the Town.
   F.   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification as found in Section
3.3.30.
   G.   In order to be qualified for the issuance of any license or permit
under this chapter, the applicant must meet all the requirements of this title
for a business license unless specifically provided otherwise in this chapter.
   H.   The Town Council shall not grant a license under this chapter where the
applicant, any corporation or other person that in whole or in part manages the
applicant or its licensed operations, or any proprietor, officer, director,
partner, limited liability company member with management authority, or
managing agent of the applicant, or of any corporation or other person that
manages the applicant, has been convicted of specified criminal activity.
   I.   In the case of a person other than an individual, the commission of
specified criminal activity or any other event (such as a license revocation)
with respect to that person relevant for purposes of this chapter shall be
deemed to have been committed by or occurred with respect to such person if
such person itself or any partner, limited liability company member with
management authority, managing agent, officer, director, or stockholder who
holds at least twenty (20) percent of the total issued and outstanding stock of
any class of an applicant corporation or twenty (20) percent of the voting,
capital, or income interest of an applicant partnership, limited liability
company, or other unincorporated business organization, has been convicted of
any specified criminal activity or has had occur with respect to him or her any
event relevant for purposes of this chapter.
   J.   Upon the arrest of any proprietor, officer, director, partner, limited
liability company member with management authority, or managing agent of a
licensee or of any corporation or other person that manages the licensee, on
any charge for specified criminal activity, the town may take emergency action
by immediately suspending the operation of the licensee for the period during
which the criminal matter is being adjudicated.
   K.   If any such person is convicted of specified criminal activity
subsequent to the issuance of the license, the license shall be surrendered
immediately. The licensee may request a hearing on the matter, in writing and
within 10 days of a conviction by a trial court. Any such hearings shall be
pursuant to the provisions of Fairfield Code 3.1.140.
   L.   The Town Council shall not grant a license under this chapter to any
applicant where the applicant, any corporation or other person that manages the
applicant, or any proprietor, officer, director, partner, limited liability
company member with management authority, or managing agent of an applicant or
of any corporation or other person that manages the applicant had any type of
license issued under this chapter revoked within the last three years.
   M.   Subsequent to the issuance of a particular license, any revocations of
any type of license issued under this chapter with respect to any person
described in subsection K of this section shall disqualify the holder of the
particular license issued. If any person or entity to whom a license has been
issued under this chapter no longer possesses the qualifications required by
this chapter for obtaining that license, the town may suspend or revoke that
license.
   N.   If, during the term of the license after the license has been granted
under this chapter, there shall be any change in the identity of any of the
persons referred to in this section, the licensee shall forthwith report in
writing any such changes to the license official.
   O.   Sexually oriented businesses may not be established within two thousand
five hundred (2,500) feet of any residence, public or private school, church,
public library, public playground, school playground, or park (a “restricted
facility”) as measured from the nearest entrance of the business premises by
following the shortest route of either ordinary pedestrian traffic or, where
applicable, vehicular travel along public thoroughfares, whichever is the
closer to the property boundary of the restricted facility.
Section 3.3.60. Fees.
   A.   Every application for a sexually oriented business license, whether for
a new license or for renewal of an existing license, shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable application investigation fee. (see Fairfield fee schedule).
   B.   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the Town an annual license fee (see Fairfield Town fee schedule)
within thirty (30) days of license issuance or renewal.
   C.   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee license,
whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license, shall be
accompanied by an annual non-refundable application, investigation, and license
fee. see FairfieldTown fee schedule.
   D.   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the Town
Licensing Official.
   E.   All fees required under this chapter are in addition to any other fees
under this title.
Section 3.3.70. Inspection.
   A.   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police
department, health department, fire department, license office, or other Town
departments or agencies, including any officials providing these services for
the Town, to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
   B.   A person who operates a sexually oriented business, or an agent, or an
employee of said business, commits a Class B misdemeanor if he or she refuses
to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
Section 3.3.80. Expiration of license.
   A.   Each license under this chapter shall expire at the same time as other
business licenses under this title and may be renewed only by making an
application as provided in Title 3.1.60 (A). Application for renewal shall be
made at least 30 days before the expiration date, and when made less than
thirty (30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will
not be affected.
   B.   When the Town denies renewal of license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the Town finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least
ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
Section 3.3.90. Suspension.
   A.   The Town shall suspend a license for a period of not less than ten (10)
days nor more than thirty (30) days if it determines that a licensee or an
employee of a licensee has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this title or
is no longer entitled to the license under the provisions of Title
3.3.50 above; or
      2.   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
Section 3.3.100. Revocation.
   A.   The Town shall revoke a license if cause of suspension in Title
3.3.90 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding twelve
(12) months.
   B.   The Town shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application Process;
      2.   A legally defined minor enters the premises under any conditions.
      3.   A licensee knew, or should have known, that possession, use, or sale
of controlled substances occurred on the premises;
      4.   A licensee knew, or should have known, that prostitution occurred on
the premises;
      5.   A licensee knew, or should have known, the sexually oriented
business operated during a period of time when the licensee’s license was
suspended;
      6.   A licensee knew, or should have known, that any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or other sex act occurred
in or on the licensed premises;
      7.   A licensee knew, or should have known, that obscene materials, child
pornography in any form, or any other contraband is on the licensed premises;
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the town, county, or state
for any taxes or fees past due; or
      9.   A licensee is no longer entitled to the license under the provisions
of Title
3.3.50.
   C.   When the Town revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the Town finds that there are substantial mitigating factors, or
substantial corrective measures have been employed by the licensee, the
applicant may be granted a license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed
since the date the revocation became effective. An example of substantial
mitigating factors would be the willful acts of an employee or customer
disregarding the directions of the licensee. An example of substantial
corrective measures would be the termination of an offending employee or
prohibiting the return of an offending patron.
   D.   If any licensee has a license revoked three (3) times within any five
(5) year period, the licensee will be precluded from regaining any such
license.
   E.   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may appeal the decision to the Town Council. Any such appeal shall be
in writing and submitted to the office of the Town’s license official within
ten (10) days of the decision. The Town Council may review the matter on the
record or may conduct a hearing in the manner described in Title 3.1.140. The
Town Council may affirm, reverse, or modify the decision. The Town Council
shall issue a decision within 30 days of receiving the appeal. An appeal after
that shall be to the district court for judicial review. Unless either party
obtains an injunction or mandamus, the status quo ante will be maintained
during the appeal process; however, additional enforcement actions will not be
precluded.
Section 3.3.110. Transfer of License.
   A.   licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
Section 3.3.120. Location of Sexually Oriented Businesses – Penalty.
   It is a Class C misdemeanor for any person to operate or cause to be
operated a sexually oriented business in a zoning district other than in a zone
that specifically permits such use.
Section 3.3.130. Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of Sexually Explicit
Films or Videos in Viewing Rooms.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of floor space a film, videocassette, or other video
reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises specifying the
location of one or more manager’s stations and the location of all overhead
lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in which patrons
will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place to which
the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The Town may waive the diagram for renewal applications if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared;
   B.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the applicant;
      1.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the city;
      2.   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises;
   C.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms shall not contain video reproduction equipment nor shall
any video be viewed from within the restrooms. If the premises has two or more
manager’s stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall be
configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in this subsection must
be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station;
   D.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in subsection (C) of this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials
and, at all times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection (A) of this section;
   E.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at a time;
      1.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place in which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level;
      2.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the illumination
described in subsection (E)(1) of this section is maintained at all times that
any patron is present in the premises;
      3.   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths;
      4.   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms;
      5.   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect the
walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes exist;
      6.   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to be
nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, without rugs or carpeting; and
      7.   The licensee shall cause all floor or wall surfaces and ceiling
surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by,
nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board, or
other porous material shall be used within forty eight (48) inches of the
floor.
   F.   It is a Class B misdemeanor for a person having a duty under
subsections (A) through (F) of this section to fail to fulfill that duty.
Section 3.3.140. Additional Regulations for Escort Agencies.
   A.   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18 years.
   B.   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
   C.   No activity or service by any escort shall be performed on the escort
agency’s premises.
   D.   In addition to the restrictions set forth in Title
3.3.100, applying to any escort agency’s premises, the restrictions also apply
to the conduct of the employee during the period of time that the escort
service is provided, regardless of location.
Section 3.3.150. Additional Regulations Concerning Licensee Employees.
   It is unlawful for any physical contact between employee licensees and any
other person during the performance of the licensee’s employment
responsibilities.
Section 3.3.160. Prohibition Against Children in a Sexually Oriented Business.
   A.   person commits a misdemeanor if the person allows another under the age
of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented business. A licensee has an
affirmative obligation to ensure that no person on the premises is under the
age of 18.
Section 3.3.170. Hours of Operation.
   Nosexually oriented business may remain open at any time between the hours
of 1:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
Section 3.3.180. Injunction – Penalty.
   A person who operates or causes to operate a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of this code is subject to a suit for
injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Each day a sexually
oriented business operates is a separate offense or violation. A violation of
this chapter is a Class B misdemeanor and is punishable as such.
Chapter 5
Home Based Businesses.
   Section
3.5.10.   Purpose.
   Section
3.5.20.   What this Chapter Does.
   Section
3.5.30.   Definitions.
   Section
3.5.40.   Home Based Business License Required.
   Section
3.5.50.   Generally Applicable Standards for All Home Businesses.
   Section
3.5.60.    Prohibited Home Businesses.
   Section
3.5.70.    Agricultural Uses.
   Section
3.5.80.    Daycares and Preschools.
   Section
3.5.90.    Appeals.
   Section
3.5.100.    Renewal of Business License.
   Section
3.5.110.    Noncompliance.
Section 3.5.10. Purpose.
   Home businesses are encouraged as a desirable form of local economic
development. Home businesses may be allowed in single-family dwellings only if
the proposed use is secondary to the primary residential use of the property,
the business is carried on by a bona fide resident of the dwelling and does not
adversely impact surrounding residents, affect the residential characteristics
of the neighborhood, significantly increase traffic or the demand on utilities
and any outdoor business activity be primarily behind the residential home. A
Home Based Business must obtain a Conditional Use Permit from Fairfield Town as
part of the approval process.
Section 3.5.20. What This Chapter Does.
   This chapter establishes approval licensing criteria, standards and outlines
processing procedures for home businesses. In cases of conflict with Fairfield
Town Code Business Licenses Procedures, this chapter shall govern all home
businesses.
Section 3.5.30. Definitions.
   See
Title 12. Definition.
Section 3.5.40. Home Based Business License Required.
   A.   Business License Requirements and Exemptions. All persons within the
limits of Fairfield Town who engage in, carry on, or operate a business from a
residence shall obtain the appropriate business license from the Town, unless
exempted through state or federal laws.
   B.   Section 10-1-203 7(b) of the Utah Code provides that a municipality may
not charge any fee for a resident of the municipality to operate a home-based
business, unless the combined offsite impact of the home-based business and the
primary residential use materially exceeds the offsite impact of the primary
residential use alone. Personal services rendered at home by an employee for
his or her employer under any contract of personal employment do not constitute
a home business.
   C.   Home based businesses shall be a permitted use in the residential zone
if found to be in compliance with all criteria enumerated in this chapter. Town
Council may approve a home business license with conditions to ensure
compatibility between the proposed business and the residential use of the
property or adjacent properties.
   D.   Applications. An application for a home business license shall be
completed by the applicant on forms approved by the Planning Commission. No
home business license shall be processed without the application, supporting
materials, and the fee required by the current consolidated fee schedule.
Incomplete applications shall not be processed under any circumstances.
   E.   Supporting Materials. The home business license application shall be
submitted with the materials required herein. The Planning Commission or
designee may determine and require that additional items not listed herein be
submitted in order to evaluate the home business application. There shall be
complete conformity with all other County, State and Federal licensing. Home
based businesses are required to register with the State of Utah Department of
Commerce.
   F.   Professional Licenses and Background Checks. The Town licensing
official shall inform applicants if a professional license is required. When a
background check is required, the applicant shall fill out the "Fairfield
Authorization for a Background Check Form" that is included in the home
business application packet and pay the accompanying background check fee. see
the Fairfield Fee Schedule.
   G.   Fee. The processing fee required by the current consolidated fee
schedule approved by the Town Council shall be paid in full with the submission
of an application.
   H.   Approval process:
      1.   License applications shall be submitted along with a check for all
required fees to the Town Recorder
      2.   Planning Commission shall review application;
      3.   Planning Commission shall hold a Public Hearing;
      4.   Planning Commission shall send their recommendations to the Town
Council;
      5.   Town Council shall review and approve, approve with conditions or
disapprove the application;
      6.   Home business licenses shall be approved by the Town Council. Any
petition for a minor exception from the standards listed in Fairfield Town (A)
through (F) of this section may be approved administratively at the discretion
of the Planning Commission if the exception does not adversely impact
surrounding residents or affect the residential characteristics of the
neighborhood, or significantly increase traffic or the demand on utilities. Any
other petition for an exception from the standards in this chapter requires
approval by the Town Council before the license may be issued or renewed; and
      7.   Any home business currently in operation that constitutes a nuisance
may also be required to go before the Planning Commission for continued use of
the license and operation of the business. If the Planning Commission denies
the continued use of the license, the license shall not be renewed. 
Section 3.5.50. Generally Applicable Standards for All Home Businesses.
   A.   All home businesses shall be in compliance with the following criteria
to ensure that the residential characteristics of neighborhoods are preserved
and that utilities and infrastructure are not overburdened. Licenses may be
reviewed periodically as needed and may be revoked if the approval requirements
are violated:
      1.   Floor Area. A home business shall not occupy more than one-third
(1\3) of the total floor area of a residential dwelling. Exceptions may be
granted for daycares, preschools, and businesses that offer instruction
classes;
      2.   Employees. Home businesses shall have no more than four (4) on-
premises employees who are not a member of the resident family or household.
Additional employees may be increased and approved administratively at the
discretion of the Planning Commission if the exception does not adversely
impact surrounding residents or affect the residential characteristics of the
neighborhood, or significantly increase traffic or the demand on utilities;
      3.   Parking. All business related vehicles which park at the location of
the home business, including those of the applicant, employee, customers,
clients, or business related visitor vehicles, must use off-street parking.
This provision excludes stops made by delivery vehicles. Additional parking
requirements may be required depending on the business type and number of daily
vehicles utilizing the property;
      4.   Outdoor Storage and Screening. See 10.17.70.13
      5.   If more than four (4) of the following items described below (a-f)
are parked or placed on the parcel of land or lot being used as a residence,
and the property is of sufficient size to accommodate the number of vehicles
requested, an opaque wall or fence of acceptable design is required.  Such wall
or fence or landscaping shall be maintained in good condition with no
advertising thereon, except as permitted by the Fairfield Towns’ signage
regulations. This includes:
         a.   Heavy-duty vehicles, specially designed for executing
construction tasks, most frequently  ones involving earthwork_operations. They
are also known as heavy machines, heavy trucks, construction equipment,
engineering equipment, heavy vehicles, or heavy equipment;
         b.   Double axle trailers that are used to haul or transport heavy
equipment and are used for storage of equipment or materials used for a
commercial business or a home based business;
         c.   Storage of any equipment that requires a UDOT Permit number to be
legally driven or transported on Utah Roads;
         d.   Containers used to store any kind of equipment used for a
business. Must comply with zoning ordinance. Containers used as a screened
area, storage or parked within Fairfield Town limits must be painted in earth
tone colors and blend with its surroundings or match the aesthetics of the
home; or
         e.   Commercial vehicles parked on the property must remain operable
and licensed at all times;
      6.   Removal or Impoundment. Any commercial vehicle that receives three
(3) or more notices or citations for violating this section within a one
hundred eighty (180) day period may be moved by a peace officer or impounded at
the owner's expense;
      7.   Outdoor Activity. All home business activity, except passive
storage, shall be carried out within the home or an accessory building and
shall not be observable by the general public or from the street in front of
the residence, unless specifically approved in the home business license,
(i.e., activities such as outdoor play time for preschools or daycare centers;
      8.   Hours of Operation. Home businesses that receive customers, clients,
or students shall operate only between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Approval for
such hours may be rescinded by the license official, or designee, if the
operation of the business at such hours constitutes a nuisance or adversely
impacts surrounding residents;
      9.   Hazardous Materials. No home business shall use hazardous materials
or generate hazardous wastes that increase the danger of fire or cause fumes or
odors that may constitute a nuisance or pose a danger to neighboring residents.
Home businesses are subject to yearly inspection for compliance with the
International Fire Code;
      10.   Noise and Light. All home businesses shall comply with Fairfield
Light and Noise Ordinances. Home businesses are prohibited from generating or
projecting light that is objectionable or potentially harmful to other
residents;
      11.   All uses must be operated so that all practical means are used to
confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration, or other similar feature to
the premises upon which they are located and shall not inhibit the everyday use
of adjacent properties;
      12.   Appearance. No home business shall alter the exterior of the home
to differ from the residential use of colors, materials, construction or
lighting. The property from which a home businesses is conducted must be in
full compliance with all other Town laws, codes and Ordinances, including but
not limited to landscaping and setback requirements;
      13.   Accessory buildings or containers used for any home business shall
blend in with the characteristics of the neighborhood and exterior of the home.
To be considered a home based business, any storage, sales or business use
shall be conducted behind the primary residents’ home and follow all applicable
requirements of this document. A home based business may be located in a garage
or shop that has an exterior appearance that matches the residential dwelling
and may be located to the side of the house as long as they meet all applicable
requirements, including setbacks. The Fairfield Planning Commission may
approve, deny or revoke a business license or a CUP, if landscaping, setbacks
or any other requirements are not met. All business must be conducted inside;
      14.   Retail Sales. Home businesses are not to be established solely for
the sale of merchandise (except for agricultural products or internet and mail-
order based home businesses). Service related home businesses may conduct
incidental retail sales provided that the sales do not increase traffic;
      15.   Traffic Generation. Traffic generation for home businesses shall
not exceed three (3) clients per hour during the hours from 7:00 am - 6:00 pm.;
      16.   Multiple Home Business Licenses. More than one home business
license may be issued for a residence provided that the home businesses or the
accumulative effects of the home businesses that operate within the approved
criteria do not utilize more than one third (? ) of the home;
      17.   Conformity with Safety Codes. Fire inspections are required for all
home businesses
         There shall be complete conformity with fire, building, plumbing,
electrical and all other Town, County, State and Federal Codes and any
requirements the Building Inspector and/or Fire Chief deem necessary to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public. The home business shall be
conducted in areas of a home where the building department has conducted the
building inspections and issued a permit and all home businesses shall comply
with the standards and requirements of the International Building Code or the
International Residential Code;
      18.   Fencing. All zones in the Town of Fairfield are Fence-In Zones,
“NOT” Fence-Out with exceptions. If a developer or landowner removes a fence
for construction or any other reason, it Is the developer or landowners
responsibility to make arrangements with the adjoining landowner to contain all
animals including large and small livestock. The developer or landowner must
re-erect a fence within a ten (10) day period of the removal, in the exact same
place, and with material equal to or superior to the quality of what was
removed. The Planning Commision may extend this period at their discretion;
      19.   Boundary Line Agreement. The Planning Commission may require a
boundary line agreement if deemed necessary to establish setbacks. It is the
sole responsibility of the property owner to obtain the agreement and not the
Town of Fairfield;
      20.   Signage. No more than one (1) sign no larger than twenty (20) sq.
feet shall be allowed. All illuminated signs must comply with the Fairfield
Outdoor Lighting Standards. Sign plan and design must be included in the
application; or
      21.   Preserve the quiet and peaceful enjoyment of surrounding
properties.
3.5.60. Prohibited Home Businesses.
   The following will not be permitted as a home business under any
circumstances:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses.
      2.   Health care businesses containing medical, hazardous, or biological
waste.
      3.   Junk yard.
      4.   Auto wrecking yard.
      5.   Salvage yard.
      6.   Dog kennels/ animal sanctuary.
Section 3.5.70. Agricultural Uses.
   The license official may approve a home business license for greenhouses
with retail sales of products to the public if the property has sufficient
acreage and off-street parking to accommodate the business.
Section 3.5.80. Daycares and Preschools.
   The license official, or designee, may approve a home business license for
daycares and preschools that are in compliance with the approval criteria of
this chapter. Daycares and preschools will be treated as any other home
business. Applicants for an in-home daycare shall provide evidence of any
mandatory state licenses. Any daycare or preschool proposed to be established
within a residence that does not have typical ground level access shall be
required to comply with all ingress and egress standards determined by the
International Fire Code and any requirements the Building Official and/or Fire
Chief deem necessary.
Section 3.5.90. Appeals.
   The Town Council may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application of a proposed home business. Aggrieved applicants may appeal the
decision of the Planning Commission to the Town Council within ten (10) days of
the announced decision to deny. In all cases, the Town Council shall conduct a
public hearing and review the application of the proposed business.
   The Town Council may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application of the proposed home business. Aggrieved applicants of the Town
Council’s decision may appeal to district court within thirty (30) days of the
announced decision.
Section 3.5.100. Renewal of Business License.
   The License Official or designee shall mail a statement to all licensees in
the Town thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the license held by the
licensee. This statement shall identify steps needed to renew the business
license. Failure to send out such notice, or the failure of the licensee to
receive it, shall not excuse the licensee from the requirement to obtain a new
license or a renewal of a license by the Planning Commission.
Section 3.5.110. Noncompliance.
   Home businesses that fail to maintain or that violate any approval criteria
or conditions of approval that were contingent upon issuing the home business
license may have the license revoked by the Planning Commision. Notice shall be
given to the proprietor of the home business that they have fourteen (14) days
to correct a violation before the permit is revoked. Persons aggrieved by the
revocation of a permit by the license official, or designee, may use the appeal
process to have their grievance heard.
TITLE 4.
RESERVED.
TITLE 5.
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
Chapter 1
Nuisance.
   Section
5.1.10.   General Provisions.
   Section
5.1.20.   Declaration of Nuisances.
   Section
5.1.30.   Abandoned or Inoperable Vehicles.
   Section
5.1.40.   Agriculture.
   Section
5.1.50.   Endangerment.
   Section
5.1.60.   Firearms, Fireworks, Explosives, Fires.
   Section
5.1.70.   Garbage.
   Section
5.1.80.   Junk.
   Section
5.1.90.   Environmental Regulations, Air Quality, Weeds, Befouling of Water.
   Section
5.1.100.   Signs.
   Section
5.1.110.   Dwellings.
   Section
5.1.120.   Excessive Sound Levels.
   Section
5.1.130.   Jurisdiction.
   Section
5.1.140.   Enforcement.
   Section
5.1.150.   Appeals.
Section 5.1.10. General Provisions.
   A.   Purpose. To provide for the health, safety, welfare, and quality of
life of Fairfield residents. An Ordinance providing for nuisance generally, an
ordinance Inspector, an ordinance complaint filing and resolution process, and
penalties for the violation of said Ordinance.
   B.   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this chapter:
   Author.  “Author” means when a nuisance exists upon the property and is the
outgrowth of the usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord
or his agent, the tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of
the property on which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors
thereof and shall be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance
shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the
business conducted thereon, then the occupants and all other persons
contributing to the continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors.
   All other Definitions. See
Title 12. Definitions.
Section 5.1.20. Declaration of Nuisances.
   A.   Constitutes a Nuisance. Every situation, conduct, or activity listed in
the following chapters constitutes a nuisance and may be abated pursuant to
this ordinance. The listed examples are not exhaustive; a situation, conduct,
or activity not listed below, but coming within one of the general definitions
of nuisance listed above, shall also constitute a nuisance.
   B.   Protection of Health and Life. It is unlawful for any person,
corporation, partnership, or legal entity owning or occupying real property in
the Town to annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of the public, or unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct
or render dangerous for any passage, stream, canal, or basin, or any public
park, square, street or highway, or in any way renders residents insecure in
life or the use of their property.
Section 5.1.30. Abandoned or Inoperable Vehicles.
   A.   Accumulation of Vehicles. It is unlawful for any person, corporation,
partnership, or legal entity within the Town to allow the accumulation of a
maximum of four (4) abandoned or inoperable vehicles within the Town to be kept
or stored outside of a closed structure or opaque fencing that is enclosed on
all four (4) sides, for a period of more than thirty (30) continuous days. No
inoperable motor vehicle shall be kept closer than one hundred (100) feet
alongside or on any public right of way.
   B.   Mobile Homes, Campers, or Trailers. Mobile homes/campers/trailers in
such a condition as to be deemed abandoned or in a condition of deterioration
or disrepair, including, but not limited to the following, are prohibited:
      1.   Any mobile home, camper, or trailer which is unfit for human
habitation, or which is an unreasonable hazard to the health of the people
residing in the vicinity thereof, or which presents an unreasonable fire hazard
in the vicinity where it is located; or
      2.   Any mobile home, camper, or trailer which is partially destroyed, or
where the condition of the mobile home does not meet the requirements for
finished building or structures as required by applicable Town ordinances or
building codes; or
      3.   Any mobile home, camper, or trailer that violates any building,
electrical, plumbing, fire, a housing, or any other applicable ordinances.
Section 5.1.40. Agriculture.
   A.   Sound Practices. Any agricultural practices or operations that were in
operation at the time of the incorporation of Fairfield shall be considered a
sound practice.
   B.   Prohibited Operations. The raising of any fur-bearing animals,
including mink, rabbit, fox, and beaver, for commercial use in any way, is
prohibited. See zoning for other prohibited operations.
   C.   Prohibited Animals. Prohibited Animals are any animal which violates
the provisions of this chapter as defined or the chapter on Nuisance Generally
and:
      1.   Causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner;
      2.   Causes unreasonable odors;
      3.   Causes unsanitary conditions, either for the animal(s) or person(s)
living nearby; or
      4.   Is a potentially dangerous or vicious animal as defined below:
         a.   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans
or other domestic animals.
         b.   Attacks a human being or other domestic animal without
provocation; or
         c.   Is trained or used as a fighting animal. This provision shall not
apply to dogs owned or used by a government entity.
   D.   Animals, which by barking, howling, or making other noises, disturbs or
disrupts the peace and quiet of multiple residences and/or property owners, or
in the case of disturbing one or more persons, is documented by the Mayor/
designee or the Utah County Sheriff Department on at least three (3) separate
occasions or for an extended period of time.
   E.   Regularly chases vehicles.
   F.   Regularly chases people or other animals.
   G.   Dead Animals. It is the responsibility of the owner or other person
responsible for any domestic animal or livestock which dies to bury or
otherwise dispose of it within two (2) days after death. If the person shall
fail to do so within the time herein provided, such omission shall be deemed a
nuisance. If the owner or other person responsible for such an animal cannot be
found, it is the duty of an animal control officer to bury the dead animal. In
such an event, the Town shall be entitled to reimbursement by the property
owner for the burial of the dead animal.
Section 5.1.50. Endangerment.
   Every property or premises where there exists an environment which causes,
encourages, or allows individuals or groups of individuals to commit one or
more of the following acts on the property, premises, or adjacent public place,
including, but not limited to, the following shall be deemed an endangerment:
      1.   By physical action, intentionally causing or attempting to cause
another person to reasonably fear imminent bodily injury or the commission of a
criminal act upon their person or upon property in their immediate possession;
      2.   Engaging in acts of violence, including fighting amongst themselves;
or
      3.   Discharging a firearm or explosive in violation of Town Ordinance or
State law.
Section 5.1.60. Firearms, Fireworks, Explosives, Fires.
   A.   Firearms. The discharge of any firearm within the town limits without
the written consent of the property owner is prohibited.
   B.   Fireworks. The discharging of any fireworks within the town limits
without the written consent of the property owner is prohibited.
   C.   Explosives. The manufacture of any explosive material, as defined by
NFPA 495, shall be prohibited unless such manufacture is authorized by a
federal license and is conducted in accordance with recognized safe practices.
(Manufacturer’s Instructions IFC 3307.2.) Blasting operations shall be
performed in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer of the
explosive materials being used. See NFPA 495: Explosive Materials Code
   D.   Fires. Open fires are allowed in a properly maintained fire pit or
ring. All other open burning, other than for agricultural purposes, requires a
burn permit.
Section 5.1.70. Garbage.
   A.   General. It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or
legal entity owning or occupying real property in the Town to allow the
accumulation of garbage or to fail to remove from the property garbage,
household waste, food waste, all animal and vegetable refuse from kitchens or
residences, hotels, cafes, restaurants and places where food is prepared for
human consumption, the materials in which such food products are packaged, and
also all condemned, or decayed or unsound vegetables, meats, fish, fruit and
all waste and offal from markets, stores, factories and any other manner of
refuse, rubbish, or trash which in and of itself has no value. The keeping or
storage of garbage or rubbish on private property, including inside a building,
in such a manner, that the items, regardless of the method of containment, have
become a breeding ground, food source, or habitation for insects, rodents or
vermin is prohibited.
   B.   Garbage Containers. Garbage containers cannot be on a public right of
way for more than forty-eight (48) continuous hours and must be kept at least
twenty (20) feet off of the public right of way.
Section 5.1.80. Junk.
   A.   General. It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, or
legal entity owning or occupying real property in the Town to allow the
accumulation of junk or to fail to remove from the property any junk stored so
as to be visible from a public street or neighboring property. It is also
unlawful to allow any accumulation of junk that creates a threat to public
health or safety. Nothing herein shall preclude the placement of stacked
firewood for personal, noncommercial use on the premises. It is also unlawful
to keep or store junk, garbage, or rubbish on private property, including
inside a building, in such a manner that the items, regardless of the method of
containment, have become a breeding ground, food source or habitation of
insects, rodents or vermin. Deleterious to its surroundings, or prone to a fire
hazard.
   B.   Garbage Storage. The keeping or storage of ashes, junk, garbage, or
rubbish outside of a totally enclosed structure on private property except in a
sealed container designed for the purpose of holding such ashes, junk, garbage,
or rubbish is prohibited.
Section 5.1.90. Environmental Regulations, Air Quality, Weeds, Befouling of
Water.
   A.   General. No Person shall cause, suffer or allow the discharge from any
source whatsoever such quantities of air contaminants or other material which
cause a nuisance.
   B.   Fugitive Dust:
      1.   Fugitive Dust refers to particles lifted into the air caused by man-
made and natural activities such as the movement of soil, vehicles, equipment,
blasting, and wind. Fugitive dust is emitted into the air by activities that
disturb the soil, such as earthmoving and vehicular or equipment traffic on
unpaved surfaces.
      2.   Any person engaged in activities involving the dismantling or
demolition of buildings, grubbing, grading, clearing of land, public or private
construction, the operation of machines and equipment, the grading of roads,
trenching operations, the operation and use of unpaved parking facility,
operation of livestock arenas, horse arenas, feedlots, off-road vehicles,
operation and use of raceways, motor vehicles, motorcycles, ATVs/UTVs and or
all other outdoor recreational activities shall take all reasonable precautions
to abate fugitive dust from becoming airborne from such activities. Reasonable
precautions including but not limited to sprinkling, compacting, enclosure,
chemical, or asphalt sealing, cleaning, sweeping, or such other measures as the
Town of Fairfield may specify to accomplish satisfactory results.
      3.   Circumstances of Fugitive Dust. The following circumstances
represent examples of “Fugitive Dust” becoming airborne:
         a.   A visible plume of dust, resulting from construction activities,
which extends more than one hundred (100) yards from the point of origin or
beyond the nearest property line, whichever is less;
         b.   Visible dust emissions on an unpaved road at a construction site
being used by haul trucks;
         c.   Visible dust emissions generated by vehicles traveling over mud
and dirt carried out to a paved road near or adjacent to a construction site;
         d.   No person shall cause or permit the handling, transporting, or
storage of any material in a manner which allows or may allow controllable
particulate matter to become airborne; or
         e.   Sand Blasting. Sand and abrasive blasting operations will not be
permitted unless effective enclosures or other such dust control devices,
including but not limited to the injection of water, have been installed to
prevent excessive sand and dust dispersal.
   C.   Weeds. Any plant the Utah Commissioner of Agriculture determines to be
especially injurious to public health, crops, livestock, land, or other
property is considered a weed. It shall be unlawful for any person occupying
any real property in Fairfield to fail to control the growth of injurious and
noxious weeds on such property or to fail to remove from such property any such
weeds or any refuse and any unsightly or detrimental objects or structures upon
notice from Fairfield Town as provided in this chapter.
   D.   Befouling Water. Befouling water in any spring, stream, well, or water
source supplying water for culinary purposes is prohibited.
   E.   Discharging Offensive Water Or Liquid Waste. Discharging or placing any
offensive water, chemical spray, liquid waste, or refuse of any kind into any
street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch,
canal, or any vacant lot or which, as the result of the continued discharge,
will render the place of discharge offensive or likely to become so.
Intentional depositing of liquid petroleum crude oil, liquid petroleum crude
oil by-products, and derivatives, or liquid industrial wastes on the ground.
Keeping or collecting any stale or putrid grease or other offensive matter.
Dumping or disposing of human waste.
   F.   Stagnant Water. Offensive Substances: Permitting any lot or excavation
to become the repository of stagnant water or any decaying or offensive
substances.
   G.   Liquid Industrial Wastes. “Liquid Industrial Wastes” means any
industrial wastewater, leachate, off-specification commercial product, grease-
trap clean-out residue, used oil, or other liquid waste produced by, incident
to, or resulting from industrial or commercial activity.
Section 5.1.100. Signs.
   Prohibited Signs. Signs containing statements, words, or pictures which are
obscene or vulgar are prohibited. Signs placed in a manner that would create a
safety hazard is prohibited.
Section 5.1.110. Dwellings.
   A.   Buildings and Structures. Any building or other structure which is in
such a dilapidated condition that it is unfit for Human habitation, or kept in
such an unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of people
residing in the vicinity thereof, or presents more than an ordinarily dangerous
fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located is prohibited.
   B.   Lighting. Searchlights, laser source lights, strobe or flashing lights,
illusion lights, or any similar high-intensity light shall not be permitted
except in emergencies or by police and fire personnel, or for approved special
events. See Fairfield Outdoor Lighting Standards Title 9.3.00
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   Airport operations lighting and aircraft navigational beacons as
established by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) are exempt from these
provisions. All other airport outdoor lighting must conform to this ordinance;
or
      2.   Tower or antenna safety lighting required by the FAA.
Section 5.1.120. Excessive Sound Levels.
   A.   General. It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or
cause to be made or continued, any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise, or any
noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace, or safety of others, within the limits of the town. The following acts,
when prolonged, unusual, and unnatural in their time, place, and use, may be a
detriment to the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare, and
prosperity: horns, radios, stereos, loudspeakers, yelling or shouting,
exhausts, motor vehicles, ATVs, UTVs, motorcycles, drums, musical instruments,
construction equipment, commercial vehicles, large diesel vehicles with
refrigeration units, airplanes, or blasting.
   B.   Purpose.  This chapter establishes minimum standards to:
      1.   Reduce the making and creation of excessive, unnecessary, or
unusually loud noises within the limits of the Town;
      2.   Prevent excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noises which are
prolonged, unusual, or unreasonable in their time, place, or use, and that
affect and are a detriment to public health, comfort, convenience, safety, or
welfare of the residents of the Town; and
      3.   Secure and promote the public health, comfort, convenience, safety,
welfare and the peace and quiet of the residents of the Town.
   C.   Noise levels. The making and/or creating a noise disturbance within the
Town as identified in
Title 12. Definitions - Noise Disturbance or identified and measured in the
manner prescribed in subsection (E) of this section.
   D.   Scale. A measurement of sixty-five (65) decibels shall be considered to
be a noise disturbance within the Fairfield Town limits:
      1.   Measurement of Sound. Anything other than a residential zone will be
measured at any property line of where the noise disturbance is coming from.
      2.   When a complaint is in a residential area, the noise disturbance
shall be measured at the property line of the complainant and shall be measured
with a sound level meter which meets ANSI specification S1.4-1974 for Type 1 or
Type 2 equipment. The manufacturer's published indication of compliance with
such specifications is prima facie evidence of compliance with this subsection.
   E.   Specific Noise Prohibitions. The following acts are unlawful:
      1.   Horns and Signaling Devices.The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any truck, automobile, motorcycle, emergency vehicle, or other motor
vehicle within the Town, except as a danger warning signal as provided by the
Vehicle Code of the State of Utah; and
      2.   Radios, Television Sets, Tape Players, Musical Instruments, and
Similar Devices. Using, operating, or permitting the use or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, drum, or other
device for the production or reproduction of sound:
         a.   In a way that is plainly audible beyond the property boundary of
the source; and
         b.   On public property, public rights-of-way, or private property at
any time so as to be plainly audible fifteen (15) feet from the device.
      3.   Public Loudspeakers. The use or operation of a loudspeaker or sound-
amplifying equipment in a fixed or moveable position or mounted upon any sound
vehicle in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park, place, public or private
property for the purposes of commercial advertising, giving instructions,
directions, talks, addresses, lectures, or transmission of music to any persons
or assemblages of persons in violation of Fairfield Town Ordinances;
      4.   Hawkers and Peddlers. Selling any item or service by outcry, whether
artificially amplified or not, within any area of the Town in such a manner as
to violate Fairfield Town Ordinances;
      5.   Construction Work. It is unlawful for any person to perform or cause
to be performed any construction work on any construction site under his
control in such a manner as to violate Fairfield Town Ordinances. The Town
Council may authorize extended hours for construction operations or procedures
which, by their nature, require continuous operation, or modify or waive the
hours of work for or on projects in generally isolated areas where the extended
hours do not carry an impact upon adjoining property occupants;
      6.   Dynamic Braking Device. Operating any motor vehicle with a dynamic
braking device engaged, except for the avoidance of imminent danger;
      7.   Defect in Vehicle. Operating or permitting the operation or use of
any truck, automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle that, because of
disrepair or mode of operation, violates this ordinance;
      8.   Motor Vehicle Noise. Operating or causing to be operated any motor
vehicle unless the exhaust system is free from defects that affect sound
reduction; equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device; and not
equipped with any cutout, bypass, or similar device; and
      9.   People Noises. Yelling, shouting, whistling, singing, or conducting
unnecessarily loud or annoying Vocal utterances at any time or place, so as
unreasonably to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person in
any hospital, residential medical facility school, place of worship, place of
business or dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any person in
the vicinity.
   F.   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from
noise level regulations:
      1.   Sound created by safety signals, warning devices, and emergency
pressure relief valves;
      2.   Sound resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to are emergency call or in time of an emergency;
      3.   Sound resulting from emergency work;
      4.   Sound resulting from lawful fireworks and noise makers used for
celebration of an official holiday;
      5.   Any sound resulting from activities of a temporary nature during
periods permitted by law which has been approved by the Town;
      6.   The sound was made within the terms of temporary events such as a
parade, fireworks, display, or other event for which a permit and exemption was
issued by the Fairfield Town Council as being in the public interest, and the
conditions of such permit were being complied with;
      7.   The sound was made by farm animals or by the normal day or night
operation of farm equipment;
      8.   The sound was made under the auspices of a variance issued by
Fairfield Town Council or its designee to grant noise ordinance variances and
was made within the terms and conditions of such variance. To grant a variance,
the Fairfield Town Council or the designee must find:
         a.   The facts of the specific variance will result in no undue harm
or loss to other parties;
         b.   The best available sound control technologies have been employed
and the sound still exceeds the standards stated above;
         c.   Noreasonable alternative exists for the person or entity
producing the sound;
         d.   Conditions or mitigation measures are required as a part of the
variance approval which are sufficient to protect the interests of the public;
and
         e.   The discharging of firearms at a reasonable time and period.
      9.   Sound created by aircraft during approach to landing or during take-
off to or from an FAA established runway or landing strip.
Section 5.1.130. Jurisdiction.
   A.   Utah County Health Department. The Town is under the jurisdiction of
the County Health Department and has adopted the current state and county
health regulations.
   B.   Extent of Annoyances or Damage. An act which affects the public in any
of the ways specified in this section is still a nuisance regardless if the
extent of annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals is unequal.
Section 5.1.140. Enforcement.
   A.   Filing a Complaint. All complaints filed in Fairfield Town shall be
made in writing and shall be delivered:
      1.   In Person: File a complaint at the Town Office during regular
business hours; or
      2.   By Regular Mail to the following address: Fairfield Town Office,
Attention: Mayor, PO Box 271, Cedar Valley, UT 84013.
   B.   Enforcement Conducted by the Mayor. All enforcement under this chapter
shall be conducted by the Mayor or law enforcement as an agent of the Town to
investigate and or inspect and enforce this ordinance. It will be the duty of
the Mayor or law enforcement to perform inspections and to examine real
property situated within the corporate limits of Fairfield Town for the purpose
of determining whether, in their opinion, the property contains objects or
conditions of the kind in nature described above and for the purpose of
determining whether the existence of the objects or conditions create or
constitute a public safety hazard or nuisance as defined in this ordinance and
or in the Fire Code. From time to time, the Town Council may appoint other
assistant inspectors and delegate to them such powers and duties as it may see
fit.
   C.   The Town may pursue any remedy or combination of remedies available
pursuant to this chapter, state law, or common law in order to abate the
nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the Town
from engaging in its standard prosecution practices. Therefore, the Town may
prosecute violators of Town ordinances or state laws without first having to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, even though the activity or conduct
prosecuted may also constitute a nuisance under this chapter. Nothing in this
chapter shall be interpreted to prevent the Town from enforcing applicable Town
ordinances, or building codes, without first treating the offending conduct,
situation or activity as a nuisance pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   At the Mayor's discretion, no action will be taken without two (2)
written complaints from two different households.
   E.   The municipal attorney is empowered to institute an action in the name
of this municipality to abate a public nuisance.
   F.   Emergency Orders. Whenever the Mayor or designee finds that an
emergency exists, one or all of the following actions may be required to be
taken:
      1.   Order of Emergency Suspension. In time of a public calamity or
disaster, emergency suspension of this chapter may be suspended for a period of
time designated by the Mayor; or
      2.   Approval of Application for Exemption for Emergency Reasons. An
individual may apply for emergency exemption to this chapter based on good and
reasonable cause due to emergency circumstances, as defined in this chapter.
   G.   Voluntary Correction. This section may apply whenever the Town
determines that a nuisance exists. Although the Town's first step in correcting
or abating the nuisance may be to obtain voluntary compliance. The Town shall
make a reasonable attempt to secure voluntary correction or abatement of the
nuisance by:
      1.   Mayor or Law enforcement shall personally inform residents of the
violation along with a written copy of this nuisance ordinance. A time period
will be given to come into compliance of any violation; and
      2.   If the violation has not been satisfied; a notice will be served in
writing upon the owner and occupant of such premises, by mailing or hand-
delivering such notice to the owner and occupant.
   H.   The Notice of Violation shall include:
      1.   Written copy of Town Nuisance Ordinance;
      2.   Explanation of the nuisance;
      3.   Requesting the responsible person to abate the nuisance;
      4.   Give a reasonable amount of time for nuisance abatement;
      5.   Explain possible further action;
      6.   Provide contact information of Mayor or Law enforcement;
      7.   Explain that they may request in writing a hearing before the Town
Council; and
      8.   A response to an application for a hearing shall state the time and
location for the hearing.
   I.   Administrative Citation. Issuance Of An Administrative Citation. When
the Mayor determines that a nuisance exists, and is unable to secure voluntary
correction pursuant to this Section
5.1.140 (G), the Town may issue an administrative citation to the responsible
person. The Town may issue an administrative citation without having attempted
to secure voluntary correction as provided in this section under the following
circumstances:
      1.   When an emergency exists;
      2.   When the Town is unable to locate or determine the identity of the
responsible person, other than the property owner; or
      3.   When the Town has previously entered into an agreement with the
responsible party(s) within the previous twenty-four (24) months;
   J.   Content Of Administrative Citation. The administrative citation shall
include all of the following:
      1.   The name and address of the responsible person;
      2.   The street address of the nuisance or a description sufficient for
identifying the building, structure, premises, or land upon or within which the
nuisance is occurring;
      3.   A description of the nuisance;
      4.   The required corrective action;
      5.   The completion date and a notice that the Town may abate the
nuisance and charge the responsible person for all abatement costs if the
responsible person does not correct the nuisance before the completion date;
      6.   The time for appealing the administrative citation to the Town
Council and the Procedure for filing an appeal; and
      7.   A statement that the Town may abate the nuisance and assess the
costs and expenses of abatement and a monetary fine against the responsible
person if the correction is not completed by the responsible person and
approved by the Town before the completion date.
   K.   Service Of Administrative Citation. The Town shall serve the
administrative citation upon the responsible person, either personally or by
mailing, certified, return receipt requested, a copy of the administrative
citation to the responsible person at his/her last known address. If the
responsible person cannot, after due diligence, be personally served within
Utah County, and if an address for mailed service cannot, after due diligence,
be ascertained, notice shall be served by posting a copy of the administrative
citation conspicuously on the affected property or structure. Proof of service
shall be made by a written declaration under penalty of perjury executed by the
person effecting the service, declaring the time and date of service, the
manner by which the service was made, and if by posting, the facts showing that
due diligence was used in attempting to serve the person personally or by mail.
   L.   No Extension. No extension of the time specified in the administrative
citation for correction of the nuisance may be granted, except by order of the
Town Council.
Section 5.1.150. Appeals.
   A.   Hearing. At the written request of an owner, occupant or other person
having an interest in property which is the subject of a violation of this
ordinance, the Town Council shall conduct an informal hearing, wherein such
persons may present such evidence as is pertinent to the question of whether or
not the removal or abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within
the purview of this ordinance. The Town Council shall also permit the
presentation of evidence and argument by the Mayor and other interested
parties. Thereafter within not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days,
the Town Council shall, over the signature of the Mayor, or such other member
of the Town Council as it may designate, render its written decision, a copy of
which shall be mailed to or served upon the owner or any other person to whom
the original notice was given by the Inspector.
   B.   Abatement By Owner Or Occupant. In the event, the decision of the Town
Council upholds the determination of the violation originally given by the
Mayor or designee, Law enforcement as above provided shall be deemed to be
sufficient to require the owner or occupant to remove or abate the
objectionable objects or conditions. The Town Council shall issue a time frame
within which abatement must take place.
Section 5.1.60. Failure to Comply.
   A.   The Town may take one or more of the following actions against any
responsible person who fails to comply with the terms of a voluntary consent
agreement, an administrative citation, or an order of the Town Council:
      1.   Abatement by the Town. The Town may abate a nuisance when any of the
following occur:
      2.   The terms of a voluntary correction agreement have not been met; or
      3.   The requirements of an administrative citation have not been
complied with; or
      4.   The administrative citation is appealed to the Town Council, and the
terms of the administrative citation are amended by the Town Council; or
      5.   The terms of the Town Council order have not been complied with.
   B.   Whenever a nuisance is occurring which constitutes an immediate or
escalating threat to the public health, safety, or welfare or to the
environment, the Town may summarily and without prior notice abate the
condition. Notice of such abatement, including the reason for it shall be given
to the responsible person as soon as reasonably possible after the abatement.
   C.   Using any lawful means, the Town may enter upon the subject property
and may remove or correct the condition which is subject to abatement. The Town
may seek such judicial process as it deems necessary to effect the removal or
correction of such conditions.
   D.   The costs, including incidental expenses, of correcting or abating the
violation shall be billed to the responsible person and/or the owner, lessor,
tenant, or other person entitled to control, use and/or occupy the property and
shall become due,, and payable to the Town within fifteen (15) calendar days of
the mailing or service date. The term "incidental expenses" includes, but is
not limited to:
      1.   Personnel costs, both direct and indirect, including attorney fees
and costs;
      2.   Costs incurred in documenting the violation;
      3.   Hauling, storage, and disposal expenses;
      4.   Actual expenses and costs for the Town in preparing notices,
specifications and contracts, and in accomplishing and/or contracting and
inspecting the work; and
      5.   The costs of any required printing and mailing.
   F.   Monetary Fine. The responsible person shall pay the Town a monetary
fine for each day the nuisance continues after the completion date. The
nuisance shall be considered to continue until the Town approves the
responsible person's actions to correct or abate the nuisance. The amount of
the monetary fine shall be as follows:
      1.   A per-day fine shall be assessed for each day during the first week
that the nuisance remains uncorrected or unabated after the completion date.
see FF fee schedule;
      2.   A per day fine shall be assessed for each day thereafter until the
nuisance is corrected or abated according to the terms set forth in the
administrative citation. The monetary fine shall be cumulative. Payment of a
monetary fine pursuant to this section does not relieve the responsible person
from the duty to abate the nuisance as required by the voluntary consent
agreement or the administrative citation. The monetary fine constitutes a
personal obligation of the responsible person. see FF fee schedule; and
      3.   Any monetary fine assessed must be paid to the town within fifteen
(15) calendar days from the date of mailing of the Town Council’s decision and
order or service of a notice from the Town that the fine is due. The Town
attorney or his/her designee is authorized to take appropriate action to
collect the monetary fine, plus reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in
collecting said monetary fine.
   G.   Civil Actions. Either the Town or any private person directly affected
by a nuisance may bring a civil action to abate or enjoin the nuisance or for
damages for causing or maintaining the nuisance (including the cost, if any, of
cleaning the subject property). The civil action may be brought pursuant to
this chapter or pursuant to state law.
   H.   Criminal Actions. Criminal actions may be initiated by criminal
citation from the Town or by information filed with the court:
      1.   Any person who creates, aids in creating, or contributes to a
nuisance or who supports, continues, or retains a nuisance is guilty of a class
C enhanced misdemeanor violation. Each day for which a nuisance is not abated
constitutes a separate violation. Any person convicted of two or more
violations of this chapter within a two (2) year period shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor;
      2.   If the alleged nuisance is also a violation of other ordinances
(other than this nuisance ordinance) or state law, the responsible person may
be charged under the specific provision of the code or state law, even if the
town did not first attempt to obtain voluntary correction as provided in this
Ordinance; or
      3.   Any person who knowingly obstructs, impedes, or interferes with the
Town or its agents or with the responsible person, in the performance of duties
imposed by this chapter, or a decision and order issued by the Town Council, or
a voluntary correction agreement, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
   I.   Abatement by Eviction. Whenever there is reason to believe that a
nuisance is kept, maintained, or exists in the Town, the Town attorney or any
citizen(s) residing in the Town, or any person or entity doing business in the
Town, in his or their own names, may maintain an action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to abate the nuisance and obtain an order for the automatic
eviction of the tenant of the property harboring the nuisance. The eviction
shall take place as specified in Utah law.
   J.   Lien for Costs. If a person fails to pay any fines or costs related to
nuisance abatement when due, the Town may:
      1.   Record a lien on the property or premises for the full amount of the
unpaid fines and costs; or
      2.   A statement of said fines may be added to current Town utility
billing.
   K.   Non-Exclusive Remedies. The Town may take any or all of the above-
mentioned remedies (administrative, civil or criminal) to abate a nuisance and/
or to punish any person or entity that creates, causes, or allows a nuisance to
exist. The abatement of a nuisance does not prejudice the right of the Town or
any person to recover damages or penalties for its past existence.
Chapter 3
Soil Ordinance.
   Section
5.3.10.   Fairfield Soil Ordinance and Maintenance of Soil Cap.
   Section
5.3.20.   Definitions.
   Section
5.3.30.   Soil Testing Requirements.
   Section
5.3.40.   Minimum Capping with Topsoil or Other Acceptable Materials.
   Section
5.3.50.   Acceptable Soil Caps.
   Section
5.3.60.   Additional Landscaping Requirements.
   Section
5.3.70.   Soil Cap Disturbance.
   Section
5.3.80.   Dust Control.
   Section
5.3.90.   Certificate of Compliance and Restrictive Covenants.
   Section
5.3.100.   Transit Center Disturbance.
   Section
5.3.110.   Failure to Comply with Ordinance.
Section 5.3.10. Fairfield Soil Ordinance and Maintenance of Soil Cap.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Soil Ordinance is to identify areas of
arsenic contamination within the boundaries of Fairfield Town, define hazardous
levels, and to set standards and procedures to mitigate potential health risks
from exposure by disturbance, movement of soil, or the habitation of these
areas.
   B.   Hold Harmless. The Town is aware that contaminated soils exist and have
been deposited throughout the Town due to runoff from mines, relocation of
tailings, as well as other means of movement. The Town, however, does not know
where all contaminated properties may be located. Each property owner is
responsible for the condition of his or her own property and is also
responsible for any remediation or actions required by this Soils Ordinance
regarding his or her property.
   C.   The Town, under no circumstances, takes any responsibility for the
testing, cleanup, removal, or capping of contaminated soil within the Town
boundaries. The Town is not liable nor responsible for any detrimental effects
or happenings due to contaminated soils within the Town boundaries.
Section 5.3.20. Definitions.
   See
Title 12. Definitions.
Section 5.3.30. Soil Testing Requirements.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect within the Town limits of
Fairfield, Utah.
   A.   Soil Ordinance Boundary. A minimum of 1-acre of the inhabited area of a
parcel shall be tested and subject to this Soils Ordinance. A minimum of 5
composite samples shall be taken from the 1-acre area at a minimum depth of
12".
   B.   Structures Requiring Testing. Any structure over four hundred (400
square) feet requiring a permanent foundation will be subject to this Soils
Chapter. and will require a minimum of .25 acres to be tested.
   C.   Soil Testing by an Accredited Company. All sampling, collection, and
testing shall be conducted by a certified NELAP (National Environmental
Laboratory Accreditation Program) accredited company as provided by the owner
of the property.
Section 5.3.40. Minimum Capping with Topsoil or Other Acceptable Materials.
   A.   Soil Contaminant and Coverage Levels. All real property within the Soil
Ordinance Boundary tested by an approved/certified soil testing laboratory and
with arsenic levels found to be above the 200 ppm action level, must be capped
and maintained with a minimum cap of six (6) inches of approved topsoil and
acceptable cap as described in Section
5.3.50 of this title: Exception, where such real property is capped by asphalt,
concrete, permanent structures or paving materials.
   B.   Vehicle Parking. Parking of vehicles or recreational equipment shall be
parked on impervious surfaces and not areas that have been capped with non-
impervious material.
Section 5.3.50. Acceptable Soil Caps.
   A.   Vegetated Areas. All areas within the Soil Ordinance Boundary where
real property is capped with six (6) inches or more of “Approved Topsoil”
defined in Chapter 12, must be vegetated with grass or other suitable
vegetation to prevent soil erosion of the six (6) inch topsoil layer.
   B.   Xeriscaped Areas. Owners that practice xeriscape are allowed to employ
a weed barrier fabric if the property is capped with six (6) inches of rock or
bark and maintained to prevent soil breakthrough.
Section 5.3.60. Additional Landscaping Requirements.
   A.   Landscaping. In addition to the minimum capping of topsoil requirements
set forth in Section 5.3.40 and the vegetation requirements set forth in
Section
5.3.50, the following additional requirements shall apply:
      1.   Flower or Vegetable Planting Bed at Grade. All flower or vegetable
planting beds at grade shall be clearly defined with edging material to prevent
edge drift and shall have a minimum depth of twenty-four (24) inches of
approved topsoil so that contaminated soil is not mixed with the cap through
normal tilling procedures. Such topsoil shall extend twelve (12) inches beyond
the edge of the flower or vegetable planting bed.
      2.   Flower or Vegetable Planting Bed Above Grade. All flower or
vegetable planting beds above grade shall extend a minimum of eighteen (18)
inches above the grade of six (6) inches of approved topsoil cap and shall
contain only approved topsoil.
      3.   Shrubs and Trees. All shrubs planted after the passage of this
ordinance shall be surrounded by approved topsoil for an area, which is three
(3) times bigger than the rootball and extends six (6) inches below the lowest
root of the shrub at planting. All trees planted after the passage of this
ordinance shall have a minimum of eighteen (18) inches of approved topsoil
around the root ball with a minimum of eighteen (18) inches of approved topsoil
around the root ball within a minimum of twelve (12) inches of approved topsoil
below the lowest root of the tree.
Section 5.3.70. Soil Cap Disturbance.
   A.   Causing a Disturbance to the Soil. All work related to the disturbance
of a cap will be subject to
Title 5, Chapter 3. Following any work causing the disturbance to a cap within
the Soil Ordinance/Code boundary, such as digging, landscaping, and tilling
soils, will require all disturbed soils to be collected and reintroduced onsite
by either onsite soil capping or off-site disposal as required by this
ordinance and State and Federal law.
   B.   Off-Site Disposal. All soil generated from the Soil Ordinance/Code
boundary that cannot be reintroduced within the Soils Ordinance/Code boundary
and are destined for off-site disposal must be sampled and characterized with
representative sampling and tested by a certified NELAP (National Environmental
Laboratory Accreditation Program) company and be disposed of accordingly.
   C.   Hazardous Characteristics. Soils exhibiting hazardous characteristics
exceeding the following Toxic Characteristic Leaching Procedure (TCLP)
standards must be managed as a hazardous waste and disposed of within a Utah
Department of Environmental Quality permitted facility:
      1.   Arsenic - 5.0 mg/L (TCLP) Method 6010 B.
      2.   Lead - 5.0 mg/L (TCLP) Method 6010 B.
   D.   Export of Contaminated Soil. No contaminated soil generated within the
Soil Ordinance/Code Boundary is allowed to be exported for use as fill outside
of the Soils Ordinance/Code boundary.
   E.   Reuse of Generated Soil. Reuse of generated soils within the Soils
Ordinance/Code boundary is acceptable provided the receiving property is capped
with six (6) inches of clean topsoil or capped with an acceptable material,
i.e., vegetation, bark, or rock, as required by this ordinance.
   F.   Relocating Contaminated Soil. Contaminated soil that is relocated
within the Soil Ordinance/Code boundary must be pre-approved by the Planning
Commission before being relocated and reused.
Section 5.3.80. Dust Control.
   Contractor/Owner Responsibility. Contractor or owner is responsible for
controlling dust during the time between the beginning of construction activity
and the establishment of plant growth in accordance with the Fairfield Town
Nuisance Ordinance/Code. Due care shall be taken by the contractor or owner, to
protect workmen while working within the site from any exposure to dust
emissions during construction activity by providing suitable breathing
apparatus or other appropriate control.  
Section 5.3.90. Certificate of Compliance and Restrictive Covenants.
   A.   Restrictive Covenants. A restrictive covenant must be written and
recorded with the Utah County Recorder detailing the stipulations involved in
mitigating the contaminated soil. All covenants must be approved by the Town
attorney. Covenants will not be enforced by the Town.
   B.   Compliance Inspection. Prior to obtaining an occupancy permit, a
notarized Certification of Compliance form provided by the Town, copies of all
supporting documents, and a copy of the restrictive covenants as recorded by
Utah County shall be submitted to the Town.
Section 5.3.100. Transit Center Disturbance.
   Permit Required. A permit shall be required for all construction activity,
utility modification, and landscaping that results in the breach of the
installed protective cap or the generation of soil and must be conducted in
accordance to the implemented site management plan that is provided with the
Excavation Application and shall be kept on file at the Town Office.
Section 5.3.110. Failure to Comply with Ordinance.
   Legal Action. Any person failing to landscape, maintain landscaping, control
dust, or dispose of contaminated soil as required by this Chapter and/or comply
with the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this Chapter may be found
to have caused a public nuisance, and appropriate legal action may be taken
against that person.
TITLE 6.
PUBLIC UTILITIES.
Chapter 1
Water Regulations.
   Section
6.1.10.   General Provisions.
   Section
6.1.20.   Application for New Individual Culinary Water Connection.
   Section
6.1.30.   Billing.
   Section
6.1.40.   Water and Water Line Regulations and Restrictions.
   Section
6.1.50.   Wasting of Water.
   Section
6.1.60.   Sprinklers and Sprinkling Systems.
   Section
6.1.70.   Shutting off Water.
   Section
6.1.80.   Miscellaneous.
   Section
6.1.90.   Judicial Review.
   Section
6.1.100.   Severability.
   Section
6.1.110.   Conflict with Other Land Use Ordinances of the Town.
Section 6.1.10. General Provisions.
   A.    Fairfield, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (the “Town”),
is the owner of a culinary water distribution system for the purpose of
furnishing culinary water to the residents of said Town under a system of
facilities (the “System”); and whereas it is necessary and advisable to adopt
an ordinance for the control of the System, which will supersede the existing
ordinance or portions thereof that are inconsistent with this Ordinance which
contains, without limitation, provisions for culinary water services and
amends, and, where necessary, repeals water ordinances and regulations
heretofore adopted in conflict with this document.
   B.   Fairfield Irrigation Company had fiduciary responsibility for forty-six
(46) of the total hookups in the Town Culinary Water System at the time of the
Town’s purchase of said System; and the Town purchased said System in an “AS
IS” condition, with full knowledge of Fairfield’s Irrigation Company’s
requirements of perpetual responsibility for those same 46 hookups; and
Fairfield will defer to Fairfield Irrigation Company in dealing with the
aforementioned forty-six (46) hookups, to include hookup and application fees
prior to January 1, 2011, and grandfathered contractual agreements. Fairfield
Irrigation Company will defer to Fairfield in dealing with all hookups beyond
the aforementioned forty-six (46) hookups to include infrastructure and water
rights.
   C.   Culinary Water Utility System. The “Culinary Water Utility” of the Town
of Fairfield (water utility) is hereby created. It shall manage, operate and
maintain the system to:
      1.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare;
      2.   To provide adequate water service for present residents and future
growth and development in Fairfield Town in accordance with the General Plan;
      3.   To protect the Towns water supply in case of fire, flood, and other
geologic and natural hazards;
      4.   To provide adequate and efficient water facilities for current and
future residents of the Town;
      5.   To establish reasonable standards of design and an orderly water
system layout;
      6.   To ensure that water facilities are available with sufficient
capacity to serve proposed development; and
      7.   To prevent pollution of streams and ponds, ensure the adequacy of
drainage facilities, protect subsurface water, encourage the wise use and
management of natural resources throughout the municipality, and preserve the
integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and value of the land.
   D.   Title and Penalty. This Title shall be known, cited, and referred to as
the Town of Fairfield Water Ordinance/Code. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this Title shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, and upon
conviction, shall be punished in accordance with Utah State law.
Notwithstanding any provision or agreement to the contrary, the Town may
terminate drinking water without notice where, in the Towns judgment, a clear
emergency or serious health or safety hazard exists, for so long as such
conditions exist, or where there is unauthorized use of, or connection to, the
Town drinking water. No drinking water connection to any premises shall be
installed or maintained by the Town unless the water supply is protected as
required by Town, County, State, and Federal laws, regulations, codes, and this
Title. Water service found to be in violation of this Title shall be
discontinued after written notification and due process of the violation.
   E.   Director of Water. There is hereby created the position of “Director of
Water” (Water Director) of the Culinary Water Utility.
   F.   Duties of the Director of Water. The Director of Water shall manage and
supervise the system pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance and pursuant
to resolutions, rules, and regulations adopted by the Town Council from time to
time describing his/her powers and duties and directing the manner and
frequency with which he shall make reports to the Town Mayor or his designated
appointee. (see job descriptions) The Director of Water for Fairfield Town is
vested with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of an
effective cross-connection control program and for the enforcement of the
provisions of this ordinance.
   G.   Rate Schedules and Connection Fees. The Town Council shall adopt and
establish rate schedules, connection fees, rules, and regulations governing the
water system. The Town Council shall, from time to time, affix, by agreement or
resolution, such terms, and conditions as they deem proper, for the purpose of
establishing special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large
amounts of water or making use of the System under exceptional circumstances.
The Town Council is constituted as a Board of Equalization for water system
rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any assessments deemed to be
illegal, unequal, or unjust.
   H.   Conveyance of Water Rights- Requirements for Development. The following
requirements pertain to new development within Fairfield Town. These
requirements are intended to be in harmony with the requirements of the
Fairfield Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Ordinance. An applicant for
development approval shall satisfy the following requirements:
      1.   It is the intent of Fairfield Town to assure each future lot owner
reasonable access to adequate water to make that lot productive; and, to
initiate a program to provide funding and adequate water resources for a more
efficient water distribution system; and
      2.   All developers of subdivisions or landowners requesting a building
permit within the boundaries of Fairfield Town shall provide adequate water to
be distributed through Fairfield Town’s drinking water system with appropriate
easements along with a suitable grade by which to convey the water to each lot.
Adequate water shall be assessed as follows, except as noted:
         a.   Well or subsurface rights which are capable of being transferred
into the name of Fairfield Town.
         b.   Any other water right approved by the Town Council that is
capable of being transferred into the name of Fairfield Town or adequately
assigned to Fairfield Town through a warranty deed or other legal decree.
         c.   Those approved by the town council for a private culinary well do
not need to transfer water rights to Fairfield town. However the still need to
have the proper water rights.
   I.   Private Systems and Private Wells. Private water systems and the use of
private wells to provide water services are not allowed. See exceptions in
Section
6.1.10. (J) and Section
6.1.20. (G).
   J.   Wells for Agricultural Purposes. A State-approved agricultural well
permit does not convey or imply any right to a Fairfield culinary water
connection. Wells drilled for agricultural purposes are allowed within
Fairfield Town boundaries and must meet the following conditions:
      1.   The primary use for the water service will be for agriculture
purposes only;
      2.   Lot size shall be ten (10) acres or more;
      3.   Must have adequate water rights for the agricultural purpose; and
      4.   Must comply with all state water regulations and have approval of
all government agencies involved.
Section 6.1.20. Application for New Individual Culinary Water Connection.
   A.   Water Service Connection Application Requirements. Any person or
entity, who desires or is required to secure a new service connection to the
System, shall file with the Water Utility for each such service connection, a
written and signed new service connection application. The applicant will be
responsible for payment of all associated impact fees and connection fees.
Fairfield Town will follow Utah State Code 11-36a-601 and Title 9.9 Impact Fees
in the accounting of these fees. The application must be submitted along with
proof of the applicant's ownership of, or rights to transfer adequate water
rights to serve the dwelling in an amount determined by the Fairfield Town
Council, that amount being 1-acre-feet of culinary water rights per residential
service on 2 acre lots and under; 1.25 acre feet of culinary water rights per
residential service on anything greater than 2 acre lots.
   B.   Transfer of Water. The applicant shall also be responsible to deed the
water rights to the Town and obtain approval from the State Water Engineer to
transfer the point of diversion for the water right to Fairfield Town's
designated point of diversion. The water right is required to be a municipal or
culinary water right. 
   C.   Building Permits and Water Applications. Plans for the new service
connection must be approved by the Town Council prior to construction and a
pre-construction meeting between the developer, contractor, and the Town must
be conducted before any water line construction begins.
   D.   Plans shall be submitted and approved prior to the pre-construction
meeting and shall comply with the Fairfield design standards.
   E.   Once approved, the owner has the option to hire a contractor or pay the
Town to take the requested new service connection from its water main to the
property line where the new service meter shall be located. The Town will
contract with a certified drinking water system contractor to install the water
line from the existing mainline to the owner’s property line. The cost of this
installation will be borne by the new connection owner. If Fairfield Town deems
the connection is a major extension of the system, the connection owner will
secure the contractor to install the new line with Fairfield Town's approval of
said contract, materials, and line size used.
   F.   No building permit will be issued without first completing an approved
water rights transfer to the Town of Fairfield as follows:
      1.   If the applicant is drilling a well, proof of ownership of the
required water rights shall be submitted to the Town and approved by the Town
prior to issuing any building permit; and
      2.   There is a one (1) year time limit for completing the approval
process of water transfer before the issuance of a building permit. If a water
transfer is not completed within the one (1) year time limit then any
reservation on said building permit for that property will be lost along with
any deposit paid to hold the building permit.
   G.   Private Systems and Private Wells. Private water systems and the use of
private wells to provide municipal water services are not allowed except at the
discretion of the Town Council, in the following instances:
      1.   The applicant is constructing a home or place of business on a legal
lot that lies farther than one thousand (1,000) feet from the current water
system regardless of the actual building location on the property;
      2.   Allowance of the private system or private well is more compatible
with the land use development goals of the Town Council (i.e. environmental
preservation, construction of a necessary public facility significantly removed
from the current water system, limitation of the number of dwelling units in a
given area where connection to the municipal water system could result in more
dwelling units than are desired by the Town Council). The Town Council is under
no obligation to approve the use of a private system or private well and no
precedent will be established by a previous Town Council decision;
      3.   The cost is prohibitive to expand the current municipal water
system, connect to the current municipal water system, or create facilities
capable of linking to the Fairfield Town water system; or
      4.   Property lies within a zone greater than one (1) acre. An existing
culinary well exists on the property prior to 2010
      5.   If a well is used for a culinary water supply it must reside on the
same parcel of land as the structure
   H.   Water Main Line Extensions and Connections.   Waterline extensions and
connections must adhere to the following:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any extension of any
pipe or water fixture attached to the waterworks system without first obtaining
a permit from the Water Department;
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person other than duly authorized
employees of the department to open or close any water gate valve in connection
with the water system;
      3.   When an applicant desires or is required to install water
connections and extensions for a subdivision or development, the applicant may
voluntarily extend the water main line beyond the distance required for
connection. The applicant for a project which requires the extension of a water
main line shall pay the cost of the extension.
      4.   No person shall construct a water main line extension without first
having plans for the mainline extension approved by the Town Engineer:
         a.   The applicant shall be bound by the rules, regulations,
resolutions, or ordinances enacted now or hereafter by the Town applicable to
the Town's System;
         b.   If an applicant installs a water mainline extension to serve a
parcel of property, the mainline extension shall originate at the nearest
adequate, existing water main and extend completely across the parcel of
property being developed along all public street frontages;
         c.   Boring of pipelines under roadway is required unless the town
Council deems it otherwise due to extenuating circumstances;
         d.   The applicable cost of an extension shall include replacement of
all road surface damaged or removed for installation of new extensions in
accordance with the Design Guidelines and Standard Specifications of Fairfield
Town;
      5.   The main purpose for which the new water service connection will be
used must be for culinary use. The location of the service connection will be
decided solely by the Town. The Town must also approve the length of the
addition to the System, pipe size, and the number of fire hydrants, isolation
valves, and other appurtenances as necessary installed along the line before
construction of said line begins. All work shall be performed by a licensed,
bonded and insured Contractor, bonded with the Town. All work shall be
performed and inspected according to Fairfield construction specifications. A
utility easement extending the length of the property must be recorded with
Utah County;
      6.   Any subdivider or developer who desires or is required to install
water connections and extensions for a subdivision or development must enter
into a Master Development Agreement with the Town. Said agreement shall
constitute an application for permission to make the extensions and connections
and shall specify the terms and conditions under which the water extensions and
connections shall be made. Said agreement shall also include any and all
payments that shall be required. No precedent will be established by a previous
Town Council agreement. Whenever an extension of a water line benefits property
which is adjacent to the extension or extended from the end of an existing
extension, other than that which is owned by the applicant, a Master
Development Agreement may be entered into;
      7.   A Master Development Agreement shall include the excess capacity (if
any), formula, and terms for any reimbursement. A Master Development Agreement
will be identified prior to the beginning of construction. The Town will then
enter a deferred credit on its books and records in the amount of the actual
prorated cost of extension across the front of said benefited property and
shall reimburse the applicant, his assignee or successor, upon collection by
the Town of charges assessed against such benefited property as service
connections are made; and
      8.   All such reimbursements shall extend for a period determined by the
Town Council from the date of the completion of the extension and acceptance by
the Town or until the initial prorated cost of the extension along the frontage
not owned by the applicant shall have been refunded. The amount of an
“Extension Charge '' to benefited property shall be determined by the Town
Council.
Section 6.1.30. Billing.
   A.   Payment of Bills. Billing for water use shall be rendered by the 5th
day of each month. Water bills shall be due and payable on the last day of each
month. Any payment received after the due date shall incur a late fee as listed
on the Fairfield Town fee schedule. If bills are not paid within sixty (60)
days of the due date, the Town may cause the water to be turned off. All
delinquent water charges must be paid to the Town or arrangements must be made
for their payment in a manner satisfactory to the Town before the water is
turned on again. In addition to all delinquent water charges, the user shall
pay any extra charges for turning the water on and off as the Town Council may
have established by resolution. Furthermore, in addition to such payments and
penalties, a delinquent user may be required to make and file a new application
and deposit. The Director of Water is hereby authorized and empowered to
enforce the payment of all delinquent water charges by an action of law in the
name of the Town of Fairfield.
   B.   Rate schedule. A rate schedule will be set by the Town Council by
resolution and will appear on the Town Fee Schedule
   C.   Return Check Policy. A return check fee will be charged, as stated and
set by resolution, for any check submitted in payment to Fairfield’s water
utility that is returned by the bank unpaid.
   D.   Resuming Use after Turn-Off Prohibited. After the water has been turned
off on the premises for non-payment of culinary water charges, or other
violations of ordinances, rules, regulations, or resolutions pertaining to the
water supply or the System, it shall be unlawful for any person to turn the
water on or to allow the water to be turned on or used in any way without the
authorization of the Water Director or the Town Clerk\Recorder. See Section
6.1.70.
   E.   Use Without Payment Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person,
either by himself/herself or through his/her family, servants or agents to
utilize the water system without paying, therefore, as herein provided. It
shall also be unlawful for any person, without authority, to open any pipe,
line, connection, stopcock, valve or other fixtures, attached to the system
unless it is done pursuant to proper application, agreement, permit, or
resolution. A violation of this section shall constitute a Class C misdemeanor
and may be punishable as such.
   F.   Discontinuance of Service. Any customer desiring to discontinue service
shall notify the Town in writing at least ten (10) days before the date when
such service shall be discontinued. Any credit balance in favor of the customer
as a result of an advance payment of bills or a deposit made will be refunded
upon discontinuance of service.
Section 6.1.40. Water and Water Line Regulations and Restrictions.
   A.   Water Restrictions. The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered during
times of emergency in the Town to issue on behalf of the Town, and at the
direction of the Town Council, an order restricting the use of water. The order
shall be given by proclamation and signed by the Mayor.
   B.   Spring Protection Zone Concentrated. Sources of pollution, including,
but not limited to, septic tanks, drain fields, garbage dumps, pit-privies,
corrals, etc., shall not be allowed within the spring protection zones. Spring
protection zones include all land within fifteen hundred (1500) feet of a
spring collection area. Sewer lines may be permitted within spring protection
zones at the discretion of the Town Engineer. Sewer lines shall be greater than
three hundred (300) feet from a spring. The provisions of this Ordinance shall
be superseded by State or Federal statutes.
   C.   Maintenance of Water Mains, Meters and Service Connections. The
responsibility of maintenance of water mains and the property being serviced by
the new water service line is borne by the applicant until the Town accepts, by
dedication, the new water line. Service connections therefrom shall be as
follows:
      1.   Once dedicated, all water mains and service connections which are
located on public property shall be maintained by the Town, except that the
Town will not maintain a service connection at any point between the meter and
the facility it serves. Service lines from the meter to the facility shall be
kept in good repair and free from leaks by the owner of the property serviced;
      2.   Water mains and service lines which are located on private property
shall be maintained and repaired by the owner and not by the Town, provided,
however, that water mains which are on private property, located within a
utility easement, and part of the Town water distribution system shall be
maintained and repaired by the Town. Water service to or through main lines or
service lines on private property may be discontinued if the owner of the lines
fails or refuses to repair the lines when reasonably requested by the Town; and
      3.   The Town shall maintain all water meters including those on private
property. The Town shall have the right to enter private property to inspect,
repair or replace water meters.
   D.   Service Line Connections Service. Line connections shall not be made to
the Town water distribution system or to main water lines on private property
without the authorization of the Water Director. The party making the
connection shall be required to obtain a permit and pay the appropriate fees.
Expense of trenching, line, meter set and container shall be borne by the
applicant. This will include trenching from the new service location or
building to the Town main. Inspection shall be by the Water Director who will
give final approval of the installation. Water service connections including
the main line tap, service line, meter box, yoke, ring and lid, must be
installed by a qualified and licensed plumber or a prequalified utility
contractor at the expense of the owner. No tapping or connecting to water mains
will be allowed in temperatures below forty (40) degrees Fahrenheit.
   E.   Separate Service Lines Required. Service lines must be arranged to
supply each separate unit or premises with a separate meter placed near the
street curb. Where water is now supplied through one service to one or more
units or premises, the Town may either refuse to furnish water until separate
services are provided, or continue to supply water on the condition one person
shall be responsible to pay for all water used through the service.
   F.   Abandoned Service Lines. When a water service line is abandoned in
favor of a different service line, the old service line shall be disconnected
from the main line and the old service tap shall be plugged at the main line.
The cost of all work shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property
being serviced by the new water service line. Application for abandonment and
new connections must be applied for. All work described in this chapter shall
be inspected before backfilling.
   G.   Moving or Replacement of Water Lines. In the event that the Town
Council determines that any component of the water system must be moved or
replaced, and as a result of such a move or replacement, a customer’s
connection must be moved, the Town shall bear the cost of such a move or
replacement which applies to main lines up to the property boundary of the
customer and the cost of reconnecting or establishing such new branch or
branches from the house of the customer to his property boundary.
   H.   Unauthorized Users. It shall be unlawful for any water service user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain water service regularly from his premises or water facilities, either
outside or inside his premises.
   I.   Cross Connections and Backflow Prevention. It shall be unlawful for any
water user to intentionally or through negligence cause there to be a cross
connection of Town culinary water with any other water source. The Town
Building Official shall review all new construction plans to ensure that there
are no unprotected cross connections.
   Furthermore, a Town culinary water source shall not be connected by pipe,
hose or submersion, or brought in contact with another water source. Whenever
the Town deems that a service connection's water usage contributes a sufficient
hazard to the water supply, installation of an approved backflow assembly shall
be required. Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed by the Town as
deemed necessary. The Town shall test all backflow assemblies within ten (10)
working days after initial installation in order to determine adequacy. All
backflow prevention assemblies existing at the time this Ordinance/Code is
adopted shall be subject to the periodic inspection and testing required by
this Ordinance/Code.
   J.   Water Meters. When a new service line is installed connecting any unit
or premises to an unmetered private line which is supplied water from Fairfield
Town, or when a service pipe is connected directly to the water system of the
Town, a water meter must be installed. Regulations, procedures for any water
line connected to the Town system are as follows:
      1.   All water meters shall be installed in easily accessible locations
selected by the Director of Water or the Town Engineer;
      2.   Water meters shall be furnished and installed by Fairfield Town;
      3.   Water meters shall not be installed until new main lines have been
pressure tested, disinfected, and approved and service lines, including meter
boxes and appurtenances, have been inspected and approved;
      4.   No meters shall be installed until all applicable fees have been
paid including water connection fees and main line extension fees as
appropriate;
      5.   If any meter malfunctions and fails to register, the water shall be
charged for the time the meter is out of order at the average daily rate as
registered by the meter for the previous meter reading period when the meter
was in order;
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, modify, or
deface in any manner a water meter or meter box. Modifications or connections
to piping inside the meter box are prohibited or at any point on the service
line between the meter and the distribution main Any such connections shall be
removed at the expense of the owner of the property being served;
      7.   Additionally, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
deface, mutilate, tear down or in any way destroy any signs or markers erected
by the department; and
      8.   All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other materials of the
Town on or near the customer's premises caused by any act or neglect of the
customer shall, at the discretion of the Town, be repaired by and at the
expense of the customer, and the customer shall pay all costs and expenses,
including a reasonable attorney fee, which may arise or accrue equipment of the
culinary water system or collect such costs from the customer.
   K.   Use of Unmetered Water. Use of un-metered water through any service
line, main line, or fire hydrant is prohibited unless authorized by the Town
Council. Use of a "jumper" in place of a meter to convey water through a
service line is prohibited.
   L.   Water line installation. All water lines shall be installed and
completed before a building permit is issued.
   M. Use of Metered Water. All use of water shall be metered unless otherwise
authorized by the Town Council. Those wishing to use the water shall have a
Fairfield Culinary water connection or a valid water permit issued by the
Fairfield Town Water Department.
      1.   Culinary Water Connection.
         a.   Water usage shall be confined to properties within the Fairfield
Town Boundaries;
         b.   Primary use is for culinary water for residential or commercial
buildings;
         c.   One water connection is required per residential or commercial
building.
      2. Water Permit.
         a.   Water usage shall be confined to properties within the Fairfield
Town Boundaries. (See exceptions below.)
         b.   A water permit may be issued by the water department for the
following uses:
            i.   Construction; Building Permit Required.
            ii.   Dust Control; Permit Required.
            iii.   Livestock watering.
         c.   Use shall be a short-term or one-time use.
         d.   Exceptions. Livestock Watering.
            i.   The watering of livestock may be permitted both within
Fairfield Town boundaries and surrounding areas.
            ii.   Water may or may not be metered for the watering of
livestock.
            iii.   Use may be short-term.
         e.   Restrictions.
            i.   Watering of fields or land is not allowed.
Rev. ord. 04112023-2, passed 4-11-2023.
Section 6.1.50. Wasting of Water.
   A.   Using Water in a Wasteful Manner. Users of water from the Town water
system shall not permit water to continue to run wastefully and without due
efforts to conserve water. If, in the judgment of the Director of Water or Town
Engineer, or any of the officers of the Town, a user of culinary water who
engages in practices which result in the needless waste of water and continues
to do so after the notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the
Director of Water or any officer may refer the matter to the Town Council.
   B.   Termination of Rights to Use Culinary Water. The Town Council may
thereupon consider terminating the right of the individual to use culinary
water. If it elects to consider the matter of termination, it shall give notice
to the water user of the intention to terminate his water connection at least
five (5) days prior to the meeting of the Town Council at which termination of
water service is to be considered. The notice shall inform him/her of the time
and place of the meeting and of the charges which lead to the consideration of
the termination:
      1.   A water user whose right to utilize culinary water is under review
shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and present his/her
reasons why his/her water service should not be terminated.
      2.   After due hearing, the Town Council shall make a determination. If
the determination to terminate the water user's service connection due to
wastefulness, the Council shall notify him of the decision to terminate and of
the length of time for which the service will remain disconnected.
      3.   A violation of this chapter may be punishable as a Class C
Misdemeanor.
Section 6.1.60. Sprinklers and Sprinkling Systems.
   A.   Systems Controlled by the Director of Water. Devices for sprinkling
shall be regulated and controlled by the Water Utility through the Director of
Water or designee of the System.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use such number of outlets
simultaneously or to use such sprinklers or combinations of sprinklers or
outlets as will, in the opinion of the Town Council, materially affect the
pressure or supply of water in the municipal culinary water system or any part
thereof, and the Town Council may from time to time, by resolution, specify
combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such an effect on the
pressure of the municipal culinary water system.
   C.   The Town Council shall, after determining that such improper use
exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the premises whereon
such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such use discontinued
and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation of this part.
Section 6.1.70. Shutting Off Water.
   A.   Town Liability. Fairfield Town reserves the right, without notice, to
shut off the water from its mains for the purpose of making repairs or
extensions or for other purposes, and no claim shall be made against the Town,
by reason of any breakage, or for any damage that may result from the shutting
off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants, or other
connections or for any other reason. In case of leaks or other accidents to
service pipes, or other apparatus connected with the waterworks, licensed
plumbers may shut off the water at the curb/meter box to make necessary
repairs.
   B.   Termination without Notice. The Town of Fairfield may terminate water
service without notice when, in its judgment, a clear emergency or serious
health or safety hazard exists for so long as such conditions exist, or where
there is unauthorized use of or diversion of water service or tampering with
pipes, meters, or other equipment owned by the Town of Fairfield. The Town of
Fairfield shall immediately attempt to notify the customer of the termination
and the reasons therefore.
   C.   Notice of Proposed Termination. Any utility account more than 45 days
past due will subject the party responsible for the account to service
termination.
      1.   At least 10 (ten) calendar days prior to a proposed termination of
water service, the Town of Fairfield shall give written notice of disconnection
for nonpayment to the account holder by U.S mail. Upon the expiration of the
ten (10) day period, the Town shall deliver a final twenty four (24) hour
shutoff notice to the property address. If payment is not made by the
conclusion of the twenty four (24) hour period, the Town may terminate the
water service.
      2.   Termination. Upon expiration of the notice of proposed termination,
the Town of Fairfield may terminate water service. Except in cases of service
diversion or for safety consideration, water and/or sewer service shall not be
disconnected between Thursday at 4:00 p.m. and Monday at 9:00 a.m. or on legal
holidays recognized by the State of Utah. Service may be disconnected only
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
      3.   Fees for water disconnect and reconnect shall apply. See FF Fee
Schedule.
Section 6.1.80. Miscellaneous.
   A.   Access. Access shall, at all ordinary hours, be allowed to the Water
Department or other authorized persons, to all places supplied with water from
the Town water system, to examine the apparatus, the amount of water used, the
manner of its use, and to make all necessary shut offs for vacancy, delinquency
and violations of this Title.
   B.   Fire Service Line. Private fire service lines designed to provide fire
protection to a building or buildings shall be constructed according to Town
specifications at the expense of the owner of the building being serviced.
Maintenance associated with such fire service lines shall also be at the
expense of the owner.
   C.   Fire Hydrant Installation and Repairs. Installation and repairs of fire
hydrants shall be made under the direction of the Town. All property owners
shall grant the Town, upon demand, a right of way or easement to install and
maintain such hydrants on their premises if the Town concludes that hydrants
shall be installed for the protection of the residents of the Town.
   D.   Fire Hydrant Use. It is unlawful to use the Town of Fairfield fire
hydrants without a permit issued by the Director of Water. See FF fee schedule.
   E.   Non Liability for Damages. The Town shall not be liable for any damages
incurred by a water service user by reason of stoppage or interruption of his/
her water supply service for any reason. This section shall not be construed to
extend the liability of the Town beyond that provided in the Governmental
Immunity Act.
   F.   Service or Connections Outside of Town Limits. Nothing herein contained
shall be construed to require water connections or services outside the
corporate limits of the Town, and such shall be discretionary with the Town
Council, or as may be governed by other ordinances.
   G.   Pollution of the Water System. It shall be unlawful at any place
supplied with water from the Town water distribution system to:
      1.   Install or use any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures which may allow any fluid or substance not suitable for human
consumption to come in contact with potable water in the Town water
distribution system;
      2.   Connect the culinary water systems at any time; or
      3.   Install any connection, arrangement, or fixtures without using a
backflow prevention device or assembly designed to prevent backflow. Any such
device or assembly must be approved for installation by the Town Engineer.
   H.   Open Ditch Irrigation. Open Ditch Irrigation must comply with the
Fairfield Irrigation Company rules and regulations.
   I.   Generally. The Director of Water or Town Engineer shall cause this
chapter to be enforced by the withholding of building, excavation, access or
other appropriate permits and cause the institution or appropriate legal
actions; they shall require such plans and make such inspections as are
reasonably necessary to carry out the enforcement of this ordinance.
   J.   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating or permitting the
violation of any provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty of a Class B.
misdemeanor and the Town Attorney may institute, in addition to other remedies
provided by law, injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate action to
obtain compliance.
   K.   Disclaimer of Liability. Whether by reason of the issuance of a permit,
the performance of inspections, the approval of any work authorized hereunder,
or any other act or omission, the provisions of this Ordinance shall not be
construed as imposing upon Fairfield Town or any official or employee thereof,
any liability or responsibility for damages to any property or person harmed by
the performance of work, or the utilization of any structure or location, or
otherwise, for which an access permit is issued hereunder.
Section 6.1.90. Judicial Review.
   Legal Action. Any legal action challenging any decision of the Town Council,
or other governmental body performing a function under this ordinance shall be
filed in a court of competent jurisdiction within thirty (30) days of the
action challenged.
Section 6.1.100. Severability.
   Severability of Section, Phrase, Sentence or Portion. If any section,
phrase, sentence or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
Section 6.1.110. Conflict with Other Land Use Ordinances of the Town.
   Governing Ordinance. If any provision of this ordinance is in conflict with
a provision of another ordinance of the Town, then the most stringent
requirement shall govern.
Chapter 3
Road Regulations.
   Section
6.3.10.   General Provisions.
   Section
6.3.20.   Definitions.
   Section
6.3.30.   Plats and Descriptions.
   Section
6.3.40.   Locating of Lines.
   Section
6.3.50.   Utilities.
   Section
6.3.60.   Obstructions and Encroachments.
   Section
6.3.70.   Poles, Posts and Fences.
   Section
6.3.80.   Bridges, Ditches, Water and Waterways.
   Section
6.3.90.   Limitations on Use of Vehicles.
   Section
6.3.100.   Official Map Showing New Streets or Alterations to Present Streets.
   Section
6.3.110.   Winter Snow Removal.
   Section
6.3.120.   Property Acquisition and Management.
   
6.3.130.   Traffic Regulations.
   Section
6.3.140.   Traffic Control.
   Section
6.3.150.   Road Classifications.
   Section
6.3.160.   General Standards.
   Section
6.3.170.   Enforcement.
   Section
6.3.180.   Judicial Review.
   Section
6.3.190.   Severability.
   Section
6.3.200.   Conflict with Other Land Use Ordinances of the Town.
   Section
6.3.210.   Maps.
Section 6.3.10. General Provisions.
   A.   Purpose. This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of
promoting the safety and health of those persons using and traveling roads,
rights of way and highways and for the purpose of protecting the roads,
highways and rights of way themselves within the Town of Fairfield and for the
purpose of preventing unauthorized and unnecessary crossings and excavations
and for the supervising of necessary crossings and excavations on said roads,
rights of ways and highways and providing for the proper repair of rights-of-
way and highways where necessary crossings must be made.
   B.   Department of Roads. There is hereby created a Department of Roads
which shall have general supervision of roads, streets, sidewalks, bridges, and
other public ways. The department shall be under the direction and control of
the Director of Roads..
   C.   Powers and Duties of the Roads Department. The department shall:
      1.   Have charge of the construction, maintenance and repair of roads,
sidewalks, bridges, curb gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and other public
ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the roads. streets,
sidewalks and public ways whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters;
      2.   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of
defective roads, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks, and other public ways
and, when proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall
record the action taken on each complaint. Enforce the provisions of this
chapter and all other ordinances relating to the maintenance and use of roads,
culverts, drains, ditches, waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other
public ways;
      3.   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the
department's attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the public
from injuries due to such defects pending their repair;
      4.   Coordinate the work of review engineers hired by the Town of
Fairfield to review proposed subdivisions and other instances in which public
or private infrastructure is constructed;
      5.   Inspect or have inspected the construction of all infrastructure
improvements constructed in any subdivision or in any public right of way to
insure construction conforms to the approved plans and specifications;
      6.   Provide for final acceptance by the Town of Fairfield of public
infrastructure improvements; and
      7.   Authorize timely release of construction and warranty bonds issued
to secure construction and proper function of infrastructure improvements.
6.3.20 Definitions.
   See
Title 12. Definitions.
6.3.30. Plats and Description.
Purpose. It shall be the duty of the Fairfield Town Planning Commission to
determine all Town roads existing in the Town and to prepare and keep current
plats and specific descriptions of the same and of such other roads as the
commission may from time to time locate upon public lands, which shall be kept
on file in the office of the Town Recorder.
6.3.40. Locating of Lines.
   Location of Lines. Lines shall be defined as the distance from the center of
any road not less than half of the surveyed and platted width of said road. No
public roadway in the Town, being regarded as surveyed and platted, shall be
less than fifty five (55) feet in width with the exception of partially deeded
half roads.
6.3.50. Utilities.
   Responsibilities of Utilities. Any person owning, managing or operating a
utility within, under, along, over or across a Fairfield Town road, highway or
right-of-way shall hereinafter have full responsibility for the repair,
replacement or relocation of the utility where the utility is damaged or a
relocation is needed as a result of a rebuilding, reconstruction or realignment
of a Fairfield Town road, highway or right-of-way. Within five days after
notice from Fairfield Town, the person owning, managing or operating such
utility shall make all the necessary repairs and relocations at his own
expense. If the person fails to do so, Fairfield Town may have the work done
and the person shall be obligated to pay for it. Boring of pipelines under the
road is encouraged. The applicable cost of an extension shall include
replacement of all road surface damaged or removed for installation of new
extensions in accordance with the Design Guidelines and Standard Specifications
of Fairfield Town.
6.3.60. Obstructions and Encroachments.
   A.   Generally. If any person places, constructs, or maintains any approach,
road, driveway, pole, pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard,
advertising sign or any other structure or object of any kind or character
within the right of way of any Town road, without first obtaining the correct
permit from the town
      1.   Remove such installation from the right-of-way or require such
person to remove the same;
      2.   Give written notice to such person to remove such installation from
the right-of-way; such notice may be served either by personal service or by
mailing the notice to the person by registered mail and posting a copy thereof
on such installation for a period of ten (10) days; and if such installation is
not removed within ten (10) days after the notice is complete, the Town Council
may remove the same at the expense of the person and recover costs and
expenses, and also fined for each day the same remained within the right-of-way
after notice was complete, in an action for the purpose; or (see Fairfield Fee
Schedule).
      3.   If such person disputes or denies the existence of such
installation, or refuses to remove or permit its removal, the Town Council may
bring an action to abate the same as a nuisance; and if judgment is recovered
by the Council there shall also be recovered, in addition to having the same
abated, the costs of action and fined for every day such nuisance remained
within the right-of-way after notice was given. (see Fairfield Fee Schedule)
   B.   Vehicles Obstructing Roads or Rights of Way. No person shall place or
leave or cause to be placed or left, any wagon, automobile, or vehicle, or
other thing, upon any public or other roadway in such a way as to obstruct
travel or view or to endanger property or persons passing upon such roadway.
   C.   Obstructions and Impedances. Building material or other similar things
may be placed temporarily on public roads in such a manner as not to impede,
endanger or obstruct ordinary traffic, unless otherwise approved by the Town
Council.
   D.   Gravel and Foreign Matter on Roads, Streets or Rights of Ways. It shall
be unlawful for any person to operate a motor propelled vehicle or any other
type of conveyance upon any public road, street or rights-of-way in the Town,
from which vehicle or conveyance, sand, gravel, rocks or other materials fall
or are discharged upon said public road, street or right-of-way, unless such
person immediately stops and removes any and all such sand, gravel, rocks or
other materials from the road, street or right-of-way; provided that this
Section shall not apply to those situations where sand, gravel, rocks or any
other materials are properly discharged or unloaded in connection with
construction activities on said road, street or right-of-way by authorized
persons.
   E.   Right of Way, Excavations, Structures and Objects Prohibited. No right-
of-way of any Town road shall be dug up or excavated and no approach road,
driveway, pole, pipeline, conduit, sewer, culvert or other structure or object
of any kind or character shall be placed, constructed or maintained within any
such right-of-way except as permitted by the Town Council.
   F.   Advertising. It shall be unlawful for any person to place any form of
advertising along any Town road within three hundred (300) feet of such road
except upon land in private ownership located in a zone which permits such
advertising and situated along such road, without first receiving a permit to
do so from the Town Council.
   G.   Tree Lines. On any Town road, regardless of width, it shall be unlawful
to plant trees within the road right of way or within four (4) feet of said
right of way boundary lines, except where approved specifically by resolution.
It is hereby the duty of the Fairfield Town Roads Director to treat all trees
as obstructions to all Town roads hereafter planted or placed in violation of
these terms
   H.   Obstruction of View. It shall be unlawful for any person to place any
form of obstruction that would make it difficult to see oncoming traffic. This
may include but is not limited to fences, signs, motorhomes, trailers etc.
6.3.70. Poles, Posts and Fences.
   A.   Violations Deemed Obstructions. It is hereby made the duty of the
Director of Roads/Engineer, to treat as obstructions to public roads under
6.3.60 of this title, all posts, poles, fences or other obstructions set or
placed in violation of the terms of this section.
   B.   Restrictions on Location. It shall be unlawful for any person to set,
place, keep or maintain any pole, post, fence or like obstruction upon or along
any public road, avenue, lane alley, trail or sidewalk, in this Town, except as
provided in this section.
   C.   Utility Poles. It shall be unlawful for any person to set or place any
utility pole upon any road in Fairfield Town except in accordance with Town
specifications established by the Town Council; and it is hereby made the duty
of the Director of Roads/Engineer, to furnish such specifications to all
persons upon request.
   D.   Permission Required. No telephone, telegraph, electric light or other
pole for carrying wires or to convey electric current shall be set on any
public road in the Town without permission or a grant of right of way first
being obtained from the Town Council.
   E.   Mailboxes. All mailboxes should be 41-45 inches above the road surface
and 6-8 inches from the face of the curb or road edge (as per USPS guidelines).
Mailboxes shall be set in a manner that does not obstruct the street or view.
   F.   Signs. It shall be unlawful to place signs within the right-of-way of
any highway in this Town except for official signs for traffic regulation
control and instruction.
   G.   Fences. Fence posts may be set along a fence line, which is hereby
designated as the distance from the center of any road not less than half of
the surveyed and platted width of said road, no public highway in the Town
being regarded as surveyed and platted less than fifty five (55) feet in width;
   H.   Where a street, driveway or any other road intersects a public street,
no fence, wall berm, plant or other item which is taller than three (3) feet
above grade and which screens more than twenty percent (20%) of the field of
vision, shall be placed within a thirty (30) foot radius of the place of
intersection.
   I.   Reservation of Town Use. It is hereby provided that any grant or
permission hereafter given to set telephone, telegraph or electric light poles
upon any of the public roads in the Town, shall be made subject to the
reservation, whether or not said reservation is specifically set forth in the
grant or permission, that whenever the Town shall deem it necessary for the
public good or service, the Town shall have the right to place crossarms on
said poles and to string one set of wires thereon, for furnishing electric
current and light to the Town and to use and operate the same during the period
of such grant or permission, with reasonable regard for the rights of said
grantee.
6.3.80.  Bridges, Ditches, Water and Waterways.
   A.   Violations Deemed Obstructions. It is hereby made the duty of the
Director of Roads to treat as obstructions any bridges, flumes, pipes or
ditches placed or constructed in violation of the terms of this section.
   B.   Restrictions on Location. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, place, set, keep or maintain any bridge, sewer, well, spillway or
like obstruction, upon, in, under or along any public road, street, avenue,
lane, alley, trail or sidewalk in the Town, except as herein designated.
   C.   Bridges. Bridges shall be approved or disapproved by the Town Council
as needed.
   D.   Location of Septic Systems. Septic Systems shall be laid in accordance
with county specifications.
   E.   Ditches and Waterways. All ditches, canals or waterways constructed
across, over or under any sidewalk or roadway shall be approved by the Town
Council and the Fairfield Irrigation company and shall be placed under the
direction of the Director of Roads.
   F.   Headgates. Headgates for the control of irrigation or other water shall
be placed under the direction of the Fairfield Irrigation company.
   G.   Water Mains. Water mains for carrying water along or across any roadway
may be laid by permission or upon order of the Town Council, at a sufficient
depth to keep the roadway secure; and when laid along any road shall be located
in accordance with Town Specifications and under the direction of the Director
of Roads. No excavation for laying water mains or pipes shall be made in any
public road without first obtaining a permit to do so from the Town.
   H.   Water Upon Roads. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit water
from any ditch, stream or well to run upon any public road in a manner to
damage or interfere with the proper use of same, or to cause pools of water to
stand thereon, to the annoyance or injury of the public.
6.3.90. Limitations on Use of Vehicles.
   A.   Prohibition of Road Damaging Vehicles. Any person driving any vehicle
or object upon any Town road or street or structure shall be liable for all
damages which said road or street or structure may sustain as a result of any
illegal operation, driving or moving of such vehicle or object. Whenever such a
driver is not the owner of such vehicle, object or contrivance, but is
operating the same with the express or implied permission of said owner, then
said owner and driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such
damage. Such damage may be recovered in a civil action brought by Fairfield
Town. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or move any vehicle
upon or across any road within Fairfield Town, if such vehicle has on the
periphery of any of the road, wheels, any lug, flange, cleat, ridge, bolt or
any projection of metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread or
traffic surface of the tire, unless the road is protected by putting down solid
planks or other suitable material, or by attachments to the wheels so as to
prevent such vehicles from damaging the road. The following exceptions are:
      1.   This prohibition shall not apply to tractors or tractor engines
equipped with what is known as caterpillar treads, when such treads do not
contain any projection of any kind that is likely to injure the surface of the
roads.
      2.   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions
upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or other
conditions tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   B.   Road Repairs and Liability. All injuries to roads within Fairfield Town
limits shall be immediately repaired at the expense of the person, company or
corporation responsible for such injury: said repairs to be made under the
supervision and to the satisfaction of Fairfield Town.
   C.   Vehicle Weight Limits. There is a weight limit hereby established on
all Local road classifications within the Town limits. The maximum weight limit
is restricted to Four 4 tons per axle with a weight limit of eighteen (18) tons
per vehicle. Temporary permits for greater weight limits will be considered on
a case by case basis by the Director of Roads or Town Council. All permit fees
shall be set by a resolution adopted by the Town Council (see FF Fee Schedule)
6.3.100. Official Map Showing New Streets or Alterations to Present Streets.
   A.   Official Maps. Fairfield Town may, from time to time, adopt, pursuant
to the law, an official map of the whole or any part or parts of Fairfield Town
heretofore existing and established by law as public streets. Such an official
map may also show the location of the lines of streets on plats of subdivisions
which shall have been approved by the Planning Commission.
   B.   Fairfield Town may make, from time to time, other additions to or
modifications of, the official map by placing thereon the lines of proposed new
streets or street extensions, widenings, narrowings or vacations which have
been accurately surveyed and definitely located: provided, however, that before
taking any such action, the Town shall hold a public hearing hereon. The
placing of any street or street lines upon the official map shall not, in and
of itself, constitute or be deemed to constitute the opening or the
establishment of any street or the taking or acceptance of any land for land
for street purposes.
   C.   The Planning Commission will update the Master Road Plan anytime a new
road or roads are dedicated.
6.3.110. Winter Snow Removal.
   A.   Snow Removal From Fairfield Town Roads. It is the responsibility of
Fairfield Town, through its road department, to remove snow from Fairfield Town
roads. The snow shall be pushed off Fairfield Town roads and into the roadside
drainage ditch channels or borrow pits. The snow shall be removed in accordance
with an operation plan prepared by Fairfield Town with priority being given to
public facilities, major private development with heavy user access and higher
intensity residential and commercial areas.
   B.   Snow Removal From Private Driveways.
   The removal of snow on private road approaches, driveways, and sidewalks and
around mailboxes and garbage cans is the responsibility of the property owner.
When clearing these approaches, the property owner shall not push or pile the
snow onto or across any Fairfield Town road or highway right-of-way. Snow shall
be placed on the same side of the street as the approach so as not to restrict
traffic movement or create a hazardous condition. Property owners are
responsible for keeping all foot traffic areas free of snow and ice.
   C.   Parking Vehicles on a Street During or After a Snow Storm. It is
unlawful for any person to park or allow to remain parked, any motor vehicle
upon any Town street anytime snow is present, so as to provide access to snow
plows for snow removal.
   Parking Enforcement. The County Sheriff or his deputies acting as the Town
police department are authorized to issue a ticket or tow away any non-road,
non-motorized, and/or junk vehicles, car or motor vehicle or other vehicle
parked in violation of this part which prevents or obstructs snow removal from
city streets. The owner of the vehicle is responsible for the towing fees.
6.3.120. Property Acquisition and Management.
   A.   Interpretation. For the purposes of this chapter, the words “road
purposes” shall include, but shall not be limited to the following:
      1.   Right-of-way, including those necessary for State or County roads
within the Town;
      2.   The construction, reconstruction, relocation, improvement and
maintenance of the Town roads, streets and other such roadways as may be under
the control of the Town;
      3.   Limited-access facilities, including rights of access, air, light
and view, and frontage and service roads;
      4.   Adequate drainage in connection with any road, cuts, fills, channel
changes and the maintenance thereof;
      5.   Road material sites, sites for the manufacture of road materials and
access roads to such sites;
      6.   The maintenance of an unobstructed view of any portion of a road so
as to promote the safety of the traveling public;
      7.   The placement of traffic signals , directional signs and other
signs, fences, curbs, barriers and obstructions for the convenience of the
traveling public;
      8.   The construction and maintenance of storm sewers, sidewalks and
highway illumination;
      9.   The construction and maintenance of livestock roads.
      10.   The construction and maintenance of roadside rest areas adjacent to
or near any road.
   B.   Contributions. The Fairfield Town Council is authorized to contribute
real or personal property to the Town for Town road purposes.
   C.   Public Use Constitutes Dedication. A road shall be deemed to have been
dedicated and abandoned to the use of the public when it has been continuously
used as a public thoroughfare for a period of ten (10) years or more.
   D.   Acquisition of Property for Streets. The Town Council is authorized to
acquire any real property or interests therein, deemed necessary for temporary,
present, or reasonable future Town roads purposes by gift, agreement, exchange,
purchase, condemnation, or otherwise. Whenever the Town Council determines that
any real property or interest therein, heretofore or hereafter acquired for
Town roadway purposes, is no longer necessary for such purpose, the Council may
lease, sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of such real property or interest.
   E.   Road Dedication for a Public Street.
      1.   Road/street Dedications to Fairfield Town must run the length of the
property. Corner lot will require dedication on all sides the public can
access. Road dedication size and type will be determined by the following
factors:
         a.   The amount of traffic generated by the development.
         b.   The impact the traffic will have on the community.
         c.   The minimum road standards for that zone.
         d.   Traffic flow patterns.
         e.   Current streets or roads
   F.   Existing Prescriptive Easement Right of Way. If an existing
Prescriptive Easement Right of Way wholly or partially exists on a lot, the
entire easement to the property line must be dedicated. In some cases the
entire width of street/road may need to be dedicated. The developer may be
entitled to impact fee offsets.
6.3.125. Vacation of Public Street or Right of Way.
   All petitions to vacate a public street or right-of-way shall follow the
approval procedures outlined in the Utah State Code 10-9a-609.5 and shall
require review and recommendation by the Planning Commission and, following a
public hearing held by the Town Council, approval by the Town Council.
   A.   Each request to vacate a public street or right-of-way shall be made by
application and by paying the fee set by the Town Council. An application and
all required documents may be obtained from the Town Recorder. Applications
shall include:
      1.   A written narrative describing the reason(s) for the proposed public
street vacation;
      2.   An exhibit showing the portion of public street to be vacated,
including:
         a.   North arrow;
         b.   Surrounding streets and buildings;
         c.   The acreage of the vacated street area;
         d.   The surveyed boundary of the vacated street area; and
         e.   The location of all adjacent properties and the ownership
identified.
      3.   A petition to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-way,
or easement shall also include:
         a.   The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:
            i.   Adjacent to the public street, right-of-way, or easement; or
            ii.   Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred (300) feet of
the public street, right-of-way, or easement; and
         b.   The signature of each owner under subsection (3)(a) who consents
to the vacation; and
   B.   Application Submittal Procedures:
      1.   The applicant shall contact the Town Recorder before submitting
plans electronically;
      2.   The applicant shall submit all required information electronically
through The town website.
         a.   The completed application and all other required information,
including a narrative;
         b.   For amendments to a recorded plat, a petition signed by all of
the property owners with the affected plat.
      3.   The applicant shall provide a mailing list, and stamped and
addressed #10 business envelopes, for all owners of record of land that is
adjacent to the public street between the two nearest public street
intersections or accessed exclusively by or within three hundred (300) feet of
the public street a. It shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant to
verify that the mailing list and envelopes are complete and accurate.
      4.   Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water
or sanitary sewer facilities located within the bounds of the public street
sought to be vacated.
      5.   The signature of each owner under subsection 3 who consents to the
vacation.
   D.   Vacating Public Roads and Right-of-Way Application Process:
      1.   If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or
all of a public street, right-of-way, or easement, the Planning Commission,
following review by Town departments, shall hold a public meeting to consider
whether it will recommend to the Town Council whether good cause exists for the
vacation and whether the public interest or any person will be materially
injured by the proposed vacation.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall review the considerations in section 4
in their determination to recommend approval of a public street or right-of-way
vacation;
      3.   The Planning Commission shall present to Fairfield Town Council a
recommendation for the vacating of the public street or right-of-way
      4.   Upon receipt of a recommendation to approve or reject a petition to
vacate a public street or right of way, the Town Council shall schedule a
public hearing to be held following notice provided pursuant to Utah Code
Section 10-9a-208, to determine whether good cause exists for the requested
vacation and whether the public interest or any person will be materially
injured by the proposed vacation. Following the public hearing, the Town
Council may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to vacate some or all of a
public street, right-of-way, or easement if the Town Council finds that:
         a.   The public street or right-of-way to be vacated, or a portion
thereof, is unnecessary for the present or prospective public use;
         b.   The vacation conforms to the Town’s General Plan, including the
Road Master Plan;
         c.   The vacation serves the public interests to a degree greater than
if the private use of the right-of-way was conferred by an easement or an
alternate public use of the right-of-way;
         d.   Adequate consideration has been offered in exchange for vacating
the publics’ interest in the Affected right-of-way. The adequacy of the
consideration is not limited to monetary remuneration and is to be determined
on a case-by-case basis at the sole discretion of the Town Council. The Council
may consider such factors as the appraised value of the vacated right-of-way,
the use which the applicant is to make of the vacated right-of-way, and whether
the loss of the publics’ interest in the vacated right-of-way is offset by the
increase in the publics’ welfare, health or safety attributable to the
applicants combined use of the vacated right-of-way and the properties
contiguous to it.
         e.   The vacation shall not unreasonably interfere with the viability
of the remaining right-of-way nor public service easements in proximity
thereto.
         f.   To render any one or more of the findings in this section, the
Council may impose conditions upon the vacation, including, but not limited to,
the requirement of the applicant to:
            i.   Pay compensation;
            ii.   Release and indemnify the Town from liability, including
environmental liability and liability which may relate to neighboring
properties;
             iii.   Maintain the vacated property; and
             iv.   Vacation is subject to certain defined reservations and
exceptions.
      5.   If the Town Council adopts an ordinance vacation some or all of a
public street, right-of-way, or easement, the Town Council shall ensure that
one or both of the following is recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county in which the land is located:
         a.   A plat reflecting the vacation; and/or
         b.   An ordinance described in item number 2 above.
      6.   The action of the Town Council vacating some or all of a street,
right-of-way, or easement that has been dedicated to public use:
         a.   Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective
date of the recorded plat, as a revocation of the acceptance of and the
relinquishment of the Towns fee in the vacated street, right-of-way or
easement; and
         b.   May not be construed to impair:
            i.   Any right-of-way or easement of any lot owner; or
            ii.   The franchise rights of any public utility.
   E.   Effective Period of Approval. The approval of a public street vacation
shall be effective for a period of one (1) year from the date the vacation is
approved by the Town Council, at the end of which time such, the vacated street
property shall have been recorded in the office of the Utah County Recorder. If
the vacated street property is not recorded within the one (1) year period of
date of approval of the vacated street, approval shall be void, and the
applicant shall be required to submit a new application for review and approval
subject to the then existing provisions of this Code and General Plan.
   This ordinance shall take effect upon its adoption and publication or
posting by the Town Council of Fairfield Town, Utah on this days
6.3.130. Traffic Regulations.
   A.   Motor Vehicle Usage on Private or Public Property.
      1.   Gaining Entry Requires Permission. It shall be unlawful for any
person to take down any fence, let down any bars, open any gate or to ride or
drive upon the premises of another without the permission of the owner or
occupant thereof;
      2.   Public Property. It is unlawful for any person to operate any type
of motor vehicle, including but not limited to, motor motorcycles, dune
buggies, motor scooters, jeeps, or any type of all terrain vehicle upon any
public property except dedicated streets, highways or alleys, or other
properties, without first obtaining the written permission of the public entity
which is in possession of such property or if the property is unoccupied, the
public entity which owns said property; and
      3.   Written Permission. Every person who operates any type of motor
vehicle upon the private property of another or upon any public property,
except as hereinabove provided, shall maintain in his possession written
permission:
         a.   Exception for two (2) or more persons. If the same document
grants permission to two (2) or more persons, a person named in said document
need not have in his possession, while another person named in the said
document riding in the same group, and not more than three hundred feet (300
ft.) from said person, has such document in his possession;
         b.   Exceptions for Certain Vehicles. This section shall not prohibit
the use of such property by the following:
            i.   Emergency Vehicles;
            ii.   Vehicles of Commerce in the course of normal business
operation;
            iii.   Vehicles being operated on property devoted to commercial or
industrial purposes where such operating is in conjunction with the commercial
or industrial use, and permission for such operations is implied or expressly
given by the person in possession of said property;
            iv.   Vehicles operated on property actually used for residential
purposes when such vehicles are there at the expressed or implied invitation of
the owner or occupants; or
            v.   Vehicles being operated on public or private parking lots
where permission to do so is implied or expressly given by the person in
possession of such a lot.
   B.   Town Utility Trucks and Emergency Vehicles on Private Roads and
Driveways. Town utility trucks and emergency vehicles may enter private roads
and driveways as required for the public safety and to maintain Town
facilities.
6.3.140. Traffic Control.
   A.   Uniform Traffic Code Adopted. The Utah traffic code, rules of the road,
current edition, as compiled, prepared and published as a code in book form by
the Utah department of public safety and the Utah municipal league (Utah league
of cities and towns), one copy of which has been filed for use and examination
by the public in the office of the Town Recorder, hereby is approved and
adopted as the traffic code for theTown, except as such code may be altered or
modified by the ordinances of the town. (1976 Code § 11-321; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Definitions. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in
the traffic code to:
      Local Authorities. “Local Authorities” means the Town Council. (1976 Code
§ 11-322)
   C.   Prima Facie Speed; Designated Streets.
      1.   When appropriate traffic-control or regulatory signs giving notice
of speeds are posted, the Prima Facie maximum speed limits designated upon said
signs shall apply to the appropriate streets or portions of streets so posted.
(1976 Code § 11-323)
      2.   In the absence of any speed limit sign designating a speed limit
applicable thereto, the prima facie speed limit shall be twenty five (25) miles
per hour. (1976 Code § 11-323; amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   Stop or Yield Entrances: When appropriate traffic-control or
regulatory signs are posted at entrances to intersections identifying them as
stop or yield entrances, such streets are hereby declared to be stop or yield
entrances as designated by said signs. (1976 Code § 11-325)
      4.   Angle Parking: When appropriate traffic-control or regulatory signs
are posted permitting angle parking, angle parking shall be permitted on the
streets or parts of streets so posted at the angle designated by the sign.
(1976 Code § 11-324)
      5.   Designation of Posting: The town council shall designate the places
at which appropriate traffic-control devices or regulatory signs shall be
placed relating to maximum speed limits, angle be subject to penalty as
provided in state law. (1976 Code § 11-327; amd. 2001 Code)
6.3.150. Road Classifications.
   A.   Purpose. A road classification system for all streets and roads within
the corporate limits of the Town of Fairfield is hereby established. All
streets and roads shall be identified by one of the parking, through streets,
stop and yield intersections and other regulations governing traffic. (1976
Code § 11-326)
   B.   Width of Roads. All roads in Fairfield Town will maintain a minimum
standard of 56 feet (56) with ten (10) foot utility easements on both sides
unless otherwise designated by the Town Council or this code.
   C.. Types of Roads.
   Table 1
                             Surface           Access                Weight
CLASSIFICATIONS Right of way Width   Easements Spacing  Snow removal limits
                                               Driveway
                Right of  Surface               Access      Snow      Weight
CLASSIFICATIONS way       Width      Easements  Spacing     removal   limits
                                                Driveway
                                                                      4 ton per
                                                                      axle with
                                     10 feet    50          24 hrs. 4 a weight
Local streets   56 feet   20 feet    both sides Agriculture inches    limit of
                                                Is exempt             18 tons
                                                                      per
                                                                      vehicle
                                                                      4 ton per
                                                                      axle with
Local           56-66                10 feet                12 hrs. 4 a weight
collectors      feet      20-30 feet both sides 200         inches    limit of
                                                                      18 tons
                                                                      per
                                                                      vehicle
Major Collector 56-70     20-48 feet 10 feet    330         24 hrs.4  NA
                feet                 both sides             inches
Minor Arterial  66-74     30-52 feet 10 feet    330         24 hrs. 4 NA
                feet                 both sides             inches
Major arterial  66-80     48-58 feet 10 feet    500         24 hrs. 4 NA
                feet                 both sides             inches
Principal       106 feet  81 feet    10 feet    500         24 hrs. 4 NA
arterial                             both sides             inches
Expressways    120 feet  91 feet    10 feet    1000        24 hrs.4  NA
                                     both sides             inches
Rural roads     56 feet   24 feet    10 feet    50          48hrs. 6  NA
                                     both sides             inches
                                                                      4 ton per
                                                                      axle with
Partial Roads                        10 feet on             24 hrs. 4 a weight
Minimum Local   27.5 feet 27.5 feet  one side   50          inches    limit of
road only                                                             18 tons
                                                                      per
                                                                      vehicle
   ADT = Average Daily Traffic, defined as the average number of vehicles
passing a specific point in a 24 hour period, if the roadway allows for two-way
traffic ADT includes vehicles traveling in both directions
   1.   Local Streets. The primary function of local streets is to provide
direct access to property with very limited traffic service Local streets have
the lowest speeds and lowest traffic volumes (generally less than 1,500 ADT*).
   2.   Local Collectors. Local collectors provide a connection between local
streets and the arterial street system. Lower speeds and moderate to low
traffic volumes (generally about 2,500 to 5,000 ADT*) are common on local
collectors. Direct access to single-family residential properties should be
avoided..
   3.   Major Collectors. Roadways connect local streets with the arterial
street system and provide traffic service to less intense developments like
residential, schools, churches, parks and low intensity commercial
developments. Lower speeds and moderate to low traffic volumes (generally less
than 10,000 ADT*) are standard for collector streets. Collector streets provide
an equal balance of both access and traffic movement. Direct access to
nonresidential facilities frequently occurs, but direct access to single-family
residential properties should be avoided.
   4.   Minor Arterials. Like major arterials, minor arterials also serve to
connect activity centers, but they also serve less intense development areas
like small retail centers, office centers and industrial/business parks. Minor
arterials provide traffic service for moderate trip lengths. Moderate speeds
and moderate to high traffic volumes (approximately 10,000 to 25,000 ADT*) are
typical characteristics of these facilities. While the primary function of
minor arterials continues to be moving traffic, access becomes a slightly more
important function.
   5.   Major Arterials. Roadways that serve as the primary streets within the
city and connect areas of activity to one another. Major arterials connect to
freeways/expressways that serve regional and interstate traffic. Trip lengths
on major arterials are oftentimes several miles long. High speeds and high
volume (above 20,000 ADT*) with limited access are typical characteristics of
these facilities. The primary function of major arterials is to move traffic,
with the provision of access to abutting properties being a secondary function.
   6.   Expressways. Roadways that serve mainly through traffic and connect the
city with the surrounding area. Freeways/ Expressways are intended for longer
trips and allow for higher travel speeds. Trip lengths are typically over 5
miles in length. Very high volumes of traffic (in some cases well over 100,000
ADT*) are common. The primary function of freeways/expressways is to move
traffic. Access to adjacent property is not permitted from a freeway/
expressway. Freeways and expressways are under the jurisdiction of the Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT).
   7.   Partial Roads. Partial road requirements are as follows:
      a.   Partial road width requires a total of twenty eight feet (28) of
improvement;
      b.   Unpaved surfaces must be approved by the fire marshal;
      c.   Adequate storm water control should be constructed for non curbed
roadside;
      d.   All improvements must be made on the developer's property; and
      e.   The Town Council may approve the building of partial roads under
certain circumstances:
         i.   The Planning Commission has made a recommendation to the Town
Council at which time the Council may approve, approve with conditions or deny
the request;
         ii.   The road splits between two (2) different property owners;
         iii.   Temporary road which will no longer be needed in the future;
         iv   Economic reasons due to unreasonable impact to developer; or
         v.   Other reasonable conditions not to require a full road.
      8.   Rural Roads. All rural unpaved roads will require fire marshal
approval for emergency vehicle access.
      9.   All roads within a commercial zone require a minimum road width of
sixty six (66) feet.
      10.   Phantom Roads. Phantom roads are road rights of way that were
initially established on the original Fairfield plat map. These roads are
unused at this time but remain the property of Fairfield Town. Fairfield Town
may claim the use of these roads at any time.
      11.   Private Roads. Private Roads may be approved by the Town Council
under the following conditions:
         a.   Access. All properties must be accessed from improved public
roads that comply with all public safety accessibility standards;
         b.   Commercial. Private roads are often quasi-public streets in that
they provide circulation within a commercial development. Because these streets
may travel through parking areas, speeds are typically slow. The purpose of
these streets is to provide access to developments and consolidated access to
the public street network;
         c.   Homeowner Associations. The Town Council may approve a private
road as part of a home improvement association providing the association can
show just cause why the road should be private. The association can demonstrate
permanent easement, maintenance, and funding;
         d.   Private Road Approval. Private roads require Town Council
approval and must meet the following criteria;
            i.   Private roads may only be approved where documentation of a
permanent easement, maintenance, and funding plan is provided;
            ii.   Private roads may be permitted to access commercial or home
owners association only (not residential or agriculture);
            iii.   No public improvements shall be approved for any private
street or roadway;
            iv.   All private roads leaving an improved Fairfield Town road
shall meet the road standards set forth for the zone;
            v.   Commercial drives being used as private roads shall have a
minimum of twenty-four (24) feet of paved surface;
            vi.   All private roads require local fire department approval and
must meet local fire department turn around standards;
            vii.   Driveways, drive aisles and parking drives may intersect
with private roads without being considered private streets themselves;
            viii.   Additional fire hydrants along the private road shall not
be required if such fire hydrants would not be required if the road was
considered a driveway;
            ix.   Street layout shall be master planned to provide for future
access and should coincide with the general plan and the Fairfield Town Master
Road Plan; and
            x.   The maximum length of a private road should be one thousand
five hundred (1,500) linear feet.
         e.   Fire Access. All roads shall follow Fire Apparatus Access Roads,
Driveways Standards.
         f.   Zones. Roads in zones less than five (5) acres shall meet the
local road standards.
            Zones that are five (5) acres or greater may qualify for rural road
standards
         g.   Driveways. All driveways and private lanes longer than one
hundred fifty (150) feet shall have a turnaround, satisfactory to the Fire
Chief. Town utility trucks and emergency vehicles may enter private roads and
driveways as required for the public safety and to maintain Town facilities;
         h.   Homeowner Associations. All Homeowner Associations shall adhere
to the following Regulations;
         i.   Homeowner Associations or other entities with assessment
authority shall be established through subdivision covenants or other documents
that will be responsible for the perpetual maintenance of the private lane or
private access tract;
         j.   Upon approval of such subdivision covenants or other document by
the Town Council, those portions of such covenants or other document which
pertain to private road maintenance may not be amended without the prior
written approval of the Town Council;
         k.   The plat shall include a plat note that will provide disclosure
to all successors and assigns, as follows: “Note: the private lane or private
access tract shown hereon lacks the right-of-way and travel surface required by
the county for a public street, and therefore the private lane or private
access tract cannot be dedicated to the Town for improvement or maintenance,
but will remain the responsibility of the Homeowners Association in
Perpetuity”; and l. Fairfield Town may consider naming private driveways for
address purposes under the following conditions:
         I.   Length of the driveway is greater than four hundred (400) feet
from the main road; or
         ii.   The view of the residence is not visible from the public street.
      12.   Named private drives or lanes are considered private driveways and
cannot be used to satisfy the frontage requirements for a residential building
permit.
      13.   Street names are not allowed unless approved by the Town Council.
6.3.160. General Standards. 
   A.   Roads. Development of new roads shall follow the guidelines below:
      1.   All crossroads in and adjacent to a subdivision must conform to the
Fairfield Master Road Plan plan;
      2.   Whenever possible roads should be split between property lines when
both parties have the potential to benefit from said road improvements;
      3.   The alignment and width of all through streets shall be preserved
unless unusual topographical conditions make a modification advisable. Where
the Planning Commission determines that it is desirable to provide for street
access to adjoining property in order to provide for an orderly development of
a street system, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the
boundary of such property;
      4.   Where a large subdivision abuts upon a major thoroughfare, the
Commission may require marginal access streets to be included in the street
plan;
      5.   Street width is to be measured from lot line to lot line. The
minimum width of streets shall follow the Fairfield Town Master Road Plan,
unless otherwise expressly permitted by the Town Council; and
      6.   Access to State Road 73 shall follow UDOT regulations and
requirements.
   B.   Construction Requirements. Any person or developer applying for a
building permit in an undeveloped or unimproved area shall put in the road to
the end of the developer's property line from an existing improved street.
   C.   Minimum Standards. All roads and driveways shall meet the minimum
standards for emergency vehicles as reviewed and approved by the fire marshal.
   D.   Recoup of Expenses. Whenever an extension of a road benefits property
which is adjacent to the extension or extended from the end of an existing
extension, other than that which is owned by the applicant, a Master
Development Agreement may be entered into. A Master Development Agreement will
include the excess capacity, if any, and the formula and terms for any
reimbursement. A Master Development Agreement will be identified prior to the
beginning of construction. The Town will then enter a deferred credit on its
books and records in the amount of the actual prorated cost of the extension
across the front of said benefited property and shall reimburse the applicant,
his assignee or successor, upon collection by the Town of charges assessed
against such benefited property as service connections are made. All such
reimbursements shall extend for a period determined by the Town Council from
the date of the completion of the extension and acceptance by the Town or until
the initial prorated cost of the extension along the frontage not owned by the
applicant shall have been refunded. The amount of an extension charge to
benefit property shall be determined by the Town Council.
   E.   Cul-de-Sacs. Cul-de-Sacs are currently not allowed. Temporary
turnarounds are to be provided on all streets which are more than one (1) lot
from intersections unless approved otherwise by the local fire chief. These are
to be recorded on the plat as easements; 60 feet diameter. Temporary Cul-de-
sacs must meet Fairfield road standards unless otherwise approved by the Town
Council. All temporary turnarounds must be approved by the local fire chief or
designee. 
   F.   Motor Vehicle Access. Access to all lots and parcels of land having
frontage on a public street shall be controlled as follows:
      1.   Access shall be by no more than two driveways from any one street
with
      2.   Driveways shall be not closer to each other than twenty (20) feet
with
      3.   Each driveway shall be not more than thirty (30) feet in width where
it abuts a public street, as measured at right angles to the centerline of the
driveway, and
      4.   On corner lots (or road curves having a centerline radius of forty-
five feet or less), no driveway shall be closer than fifty (50) feet to the
point of intersection of the lot lines at the corner of the intersecting
streets (or point of intersection of the inside tangent lines at the tightest
point of the curve).
6.3.170. Enforcement.
   A.   Enforcements. The Utah County Sheriff’s Department, acting as the Town
police authority, is authorized to issue a ticket and tow away or have towed
away by a commercial towing service, any junk, object, non-road, non-motorized,
and/or junk vehicles, car or motor vehicle or other vehicle parked in violation
of this part which prevents or obstructs the safe travel on Town roads. The
owner of the vehicle is responsible for the towing fees.
   B.   Generally. The Director of Roads/designee shall cause this ordinance to
be enforced by the withholding of building, excavation, access or other
appropriate permits and cause the institution or appropriate legal actions;
they shall require such plans and make such inspections as are reasonably
necessary to carry out the enforcement of this ordinance.
   C.   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating or permitting the
violation of any provision of this Section shall be guilty of a Class B.
misdemeanor and the Town Attorney may institute, in addition to other remedies
provided by law, injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate action to
obtain compliance.
   D.   Disclaimer of Liability. Whether by reason of the issuance of a permit,
the performance of inspections, the approval of any work authorized hereunder,
or any other act or omission, the provisions of this Section shall not be
construed as imposing upon Fairfield Town or any official or employee thereof,
any liability or responsibility for damages to any property or person harmed by
the performance of work, or the utilization of any structure or location, or
otherwise, for which an access permit is issued hereunder.
6.3.180. Judicial Review.
   Legal Action. Any legal action challenging any decision of the Town Council,
or other governmental body performing a function under this ordinance shall be
filed in a court of competent jurisdiction within 30 days of the action
challenged.
6.3.190. Severability.
   Severability of Section, Phrase, Sentence or Portion. If any section,
phrase, sentence or portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
6.3.200. Conflict with Other Land Use Ordinances/Code of the Town.
   Governing Ordinance/Code. If any provision of this ordinance/code is in
conflict with a provision of another ordinance/code of the Town, then the most
stringent requirement shall govern.
6.3.210 Maps.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.png]
 
Chapter 5
Telecommunications Regulations.
   Section
6.5.10.   Declaration of Finding and Intent – Scope of Chapter.
   Section
6.5.20.   Definitions.
   Section
6.5.30.   Franchise required.
   Section
6.5.40.   Compensation and Other Payments.
   Section
6.5.50.   Franchise Applications.
   Section
6.5.60.   Construction and Technical Requirements.
   Section
6.5.70.   Franchise and License Non Transferable.
   Section
6.5.80.   Oversight and Regulation.
   Section
6.5.90.   Rights of Town - Enforcement and Remedies.
   Section
6.5.100.   Obligation to Notify.
   Section
6.5.110.   General Provisions.
   Section
6.5.120.   Federal, State and Town Jurisdiction.
6.5.10. Declaration of Finding and Intent – Scope of Chapter.
   A.   Findings Regarding Rights-of-Way. Fairfield Town finds that the rights-
of-way within the Town:
      1.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the business and social life of the Town;
      2.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      3.   Can be partially occupied by utilities and other public service
entities delivering utility and public services rendered for-profit, to the
enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic well-being of the Town
and its citizens; and
      4.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities’ construction, placement,
relocation, and maintenance in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Finding Regarding Compensation. The Town finds that the right to occupy
portions of the rights-of-way for limited times for the business of providing
telecommunications services is a valuable use of a unique public resource that
has been acquired and is maintained at great expense to the Town and its
taxpayers, and, therefore, at such time that the Town deems it appropriate,
provider shall pay compensation for use of the rights-of-way.
   C.   Finding Regarding Local Concern. The Town finds that while
telecommunications systems are in part an extension of interstate commerce,
their operations also involve rights-of-way, municipal franchising, and vital
business and community service, which are of local concern.
   D.   Finding Regarding Promotion of Telecommunications Services. The Town
finds that it is in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote
the rapid development of telecommunications services, on a nondiscriminatory
basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to assure availability
for municipal, educational and community services.
   E.   Finding Regarding Franchise Standards. The Town finds that it is in the
interests of the public to franchise and to establish standards for franchising
providers in a manner that:
      1.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the Town on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
      2.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use valuable public property to serve the public;
      3.   Fully protects the public interests and the Town from any harm that
may flow from such commercial use of rights-of-way;
      4.   Protects the police powers and rights-of-way management authority of
the Town, in manner consistent with federal and state law;
      5.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use
of the Town infrastructure;
      6.   Protects the public’s investment in improvements in the rights-of-
way; and
      7.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication services, within
the meaning of the Act.
   F.   Power to Manage Rights-of-Way. The Town adopts this chapter pursuant to
its power to manage the rights-of-way, pursuant to common law, the Utah
Constitution and statutory authority, and to the extent the Town deems it
appropriate to receive compensation for the use of rights-of-way by providers
as expressly set forth by Section 253 of the Act. (The Act means the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, P.L. No. 104-104).
   G.   Scope of Chapter. This chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for
providers of telecommunications services and systems that require the use of
the rights-of-way, including providers of both the system and service, those
providers of the system only, and those providers who do not build the system
but who only provide services. This chapter shall apply to all future providers
and to all providers in the Town prior to the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, whether operating with or without a franchise as set
forth in Section
6.5.30 
   H.   Excluded Activity.  The following activities shall be exempt:
      1.   Cable TV. This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators
otherwise regulated by ordinance.
      2.   Wireless Service. This chapter shall not apply to personal wireless
service facilities.
      3.   Provisions Applicable to Excluded Providers. Providers excused by
other law that prohibits the Town from requiring a franchise shall not be
required to obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this
chapter through the exercise of the Towns’ police power and not preempted by
other law shall be applicable.
Section 6.5.20. Definitions.
   It is the intent of this section to more fully set forth the meaning of
certain terms and phrases utilized within the zoning ordinance in order to
facilitate understanding of said terms and phrases in the sense intended by the
Fairfield Town Council.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
“shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   The following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this chapter::
   Act. “Act” means the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (P.L. No. 104-104).
   Completion Date. “Completion Date” means the date that a provider begins
providing services to customers in the Town.
   Construction Costs. “Construction Costs” means all costs of constructing a
system, including make-ready costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or
accountant’s fees, or other consulting fees.
Section 6.5.30. Franchise required.
   A.   Non Exclusive Franchise. The Town is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction, operation,
use and maintenance of systems in the Town’s rights-of-way, in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the Town and provider.
   B.   Every Provider Must Obtain. Except to the extent exempted by federal or
state law, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to constructing a
telecommunications system or providing telecommunications services, and every
provider must obtain a franchise before constructing an open video system or
providing open video services via an open video system and shall be subject to
the customer service and consumer protection provisions applicable to the cable
TV companies. The fact that particular telecommunications systems may be used
for multiple purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other
purposes. By way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a
cable system must obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide
telecommunications services over the same system, must also obtain a
telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Nature of Grant. A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights-of-way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights-of-
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned, or
subleased, except as may be expressly provided in the franchise agreement. A
franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate access or pole
attachment agreements before collocating its system on the property of others,
including the Town’s property. This section shall not be construed to prohibit
a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so long as the lessee has
obtained a franchise.
   D.   Current Providers. Except to the extent exempted by federal or state
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter shall request issuance of a franchise from
the Town within 90 days of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter. If such a request is made, the provider may continue providing service
during the course of negotiations. If a timely request is not made, or if
negotiations cease and a franchise is not granted, the provider shall comply
with the provisions of Section
6.5.90., Removal or Abandonment of Franchise Property.
   E.   Nature of Franchise. The franchise granted by the Town under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, operate, repair, maintain, remove and replace its
system on, over and under the rights-of-way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed. Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations, licenses or business licenses for the
offering or provision of such services from the appropriate federal, state and
local authorities, if required, and shall submit to the Town upon the written
request of the Town evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or
licenses.
   G.   Term. No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of
less than five years or greater than 15 years. Each franchise shall be granted
in a nondiscriminatory manner.
Section 6.5.40. Compensation and Other Payments.
   A.   Compensation. As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the following
obligations:
      1.   Application Fee. In order to offset the cost to the Town to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees incurred on
behalf of the Town, a provider shall pay to the Town, at the time of
application, a nonrefundable application fee. A non refundable application fee
shall also be paid when an amendment to an application is filed with the Town;
see Fairfield Town Fee Schedule.
      2.   Franchise Fees. The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license tax or
fee enacted by the Town; and
      3.   All excavation will require a permit.
   B.   Timing. Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Fee Statement and Certification. Unless a franchise agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy.
   D.   Other Costs. A provider shall also pay to the Town or to third parties,
at the direction of the Town, an amount equal to the costs and expenses that
the Town incurs for the services of third parties (including, but not limited
to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection with any grant, renewal or
provider-initiated renegotiation, transfer, amendment or other modification of
this chapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties may agree upon
a reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations.
   E.   Taxes and Assessments. To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities other than the Town on the use of the Town
property as a result of a provider’s use or occupation of the rights-of-way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest on Late Payments. In the event that payment, if any, is not
actually received by the Town on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue at 18 percent compounded daily until
paid.
   G.   No Accord and Satisfaction. No acceptance by the Town of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the Town may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Not in Lieu of Other Taxes or Fees.  The fee payment is not a payment
in lieu of any tax, fee, or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the Town-owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Continuing Obligation and Holdover. In the event a provider continues
to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation and
other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation;
provided, that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the Town as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   J.   Costs of Publication. A provider shall assume and pay any publication
costs associated with its franchise that may be required by law.
Section 6.5.50. Franchise Applications.
   A.   Franchise Application. To obtain a franchise to construct, own,
operate, maintain or provide services through any system within the Town, to
obtain a renewal of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain
the Town approval of a transfer of a franchise, as provided in Section
6.5.70, granted pursuant to this chapter, an application must be filed with the
Town. Such application is hereby incorporated by reference.
   B.   Application Criteria. In making a determination as to an application
filed pursuant to this chapter, the Town may, but shall not be limited to,
request or consider the following:
      1.   Obtaining an order from the Public Service Commission granting a
certificate of convenience and necessity, if any is necessary, for provider’s
offering of services within the state of Utah;
      2.   Certification of the provider’s financial ability to compensate the
Town for provider’s intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights-of-way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider; and
      3.   Certificate of insurance from an acceptable insurance company
maintained in full force and effect at provider’s sole expense, a comprehensive
general liability insurance products/completed operations liability, personal
injury liability, owner’s and contractor’s protective liability, broad form
property damage, contractual liability, automobile liability (owned; non owned
and hired automobiles), workers’ compensation and employer liability. The
policy or policies shall name as an additional insured the Town, and in their
capacity as such, their officers, agents and employees. Policies of insurance
shall be in the minimum single limit amount per occurrence as set in the FF
Town Fee schedule. The insurance policy or policies shall contain contractual
liability insurance naming provider, and shall insure against the types of
liabilities covered by the indemnification and hold harmless provisions in the
franchise agreement (“Indemnification by Provider”) and shall provide for a
deductible of no greater amount than is set in the FF Tow Fee Schedule per
occurrence. The insurer or insurers shall be authorized to write the required
insurance, approved by the Insurance Commissioner of the state of Utah. The
policy or policies of insurance shall be maintained by provider in full force
and effect during the entire term of the franchise. Each policy of insurance
shall contain a statement on its face that the insurer will not cancel the
policy or fail to renew the policy, whether for nonpayment of premium, or
otherwise, and whether by the request of provider or for other reasons, except
after 30 calendar days advance written notice mailed by the insurer to the Town
recorder, and that such notice shall be transmitted postage prepaid, with
return receipt requested.
   C.   Franchise Determination. The Town, in its discretion, shall determine
the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations
relevant to the use of the rights-of-way, without competitive bidding.
Section 6.5.60. Construction and Technical Requirements.
   A.    General Requirement. No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other requirements or procedures specified by the Town or the franchise,
including requirements regarding collocation and cost sharing. A provider shall
obtain an excavation permit.
   B.   Quality. All work involved in the construction, operation, maintenance,
repair, upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe,
thorough and reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If,
at any time, it is determined by the FCC, or any other agency granted authority
by federal law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part of the
system, including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals
over or within the system, is harmful to the public health, safety or welfare,
or quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost
and expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses and Permits. A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, business
licenses, or other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct,
operate, maintain, upgrade, or repair the system, including but not limited to
any necessary approvals from persons and/or the Town to use private property,
easements, poles, and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit,
license, business license, approval, or authorization, including but not
limited to excavation permits, pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the
commencement of the activity for which the permit, license, approval, or
authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation of the System. When relocating a system, the following terms
and conditions shall apply:
      1.   Town Authority to Move System. The Town may, at any time, in case of
fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the Town in its reasonable
discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or
under the rights-of-way of the Town, in which event the Town shall not be
liable therefore to a provider. The Town shall notify a provider in writing
prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible and in no case
later than the next business day following any action taken and
      2.   Provider Required to Temporarily Move System. A provider shall, upon
prior reasonable written notice from the Town or any person holding a permit to
move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable under the
circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the moving of
said structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any person other
than the Town or its agents that provides services to the Town for any such
movement of its system and
      3.   Rights-of-Way Change – Obligation to Move System. When the Town is
changing rights-of-way and gives written notice of the same to providers, a
provider shall move or remove its system from the rights-of-way, without cost
to the Town. This obligation exists whether or not the provider has obtained an
excavation permit.
   E.   Protect Structures. In connection with the construction, operation,
maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its
own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the
Town. A provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the Town or other
appropriate authority to alter any water main, power facility, sewage or
drainage system, or any other municipal-type structure on, over or under the
rights-of-way of the Town required because of the presence of the system.
   F.   No Obstruction. In connection with the construction, operation,
maintenance, upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not
unreasonably obstruct the rights-of-way of fixed guideway systems, railways,
passenger travel, or other traffic to, from or within the Town without the
prior consent of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions. A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local requirements including but not
limited to the National Electrical Safety Code.
   H.   Repair. Excavation, and after written notice to the provider, unless,
in the sole determination of the Town, an imminent danger exists, any rights-
of-way within the Town which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
operation, maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be
repaired by the Town at the provider’s expense, to a condition as good as that
prevailing before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the Town shall submit
to such a provider a statement of the cost of repairing and restoring the
rights-of-way intruded upon. The provider shall, within 30 days after receipt
of the statement, pay to the Town the entire amount thereof.
   I.   System Maintenance. A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a non dangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise;
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the National
Electrical Safety Code and all applicable other federal, state and local laws
or regulations; and
      3.   A tall reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the Town of the system and its effect on the rights-of-way.
   J.   Trimming of Trees. A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement
restrictions, upon and hanging over rights-of-way so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its system. For all trimming, the
provider shall use generally accepted pruning standards of modern arboriculture
in a manner which is least damaging to the health and aesthetic appearance of
the trees, etc., being trimmed.
Section 6.5.70. Franchise and License Non Transferable.
   A.   Notification of Sale. The Town shall be notified of any sale, transfer,
lease, assignments sublease or disposed of in whole or in part, either by
forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, conditional or otherwise,
whether obligated to inform or seek approval of the PSC or not.
   B.   PSC Approval. When a provider is the subject of a sale, transfer,
lease, assignment, sublease or disposed of in whole or in part, either by
forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or otherwise,
such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek the
approval of the PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly notify
the Town of the nature of the transaction and, if applicable, request a
transfer of the franchise to the successor entity. A request for a transfer
shall include a certification that the successor entity unequivocally agrees to
all of the terms of the original provider’s franchise agreement.
   C.   Transfer of Franchise. Upon receipt of a request to transfer a
franchise, the Town or its designee may send notice approving the transfer of
the franchise to the successor entity. Such approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld. If the Town has reason to believe that the successor entity may not
comply with this chapter or the franchise agreement, it may require an
application for the transfer. Such application shall comply with Section
6.5.50.
   D.   If PSC Approval is no Longer Required or is Not Required. If the PSC no
longer exists, or if its regulations or state law no longer require approval of
transactions described in Subsection A of this section, then the following
events shall be deemed to be a sale, assignment or other transfer of the
franchise requiring compliance with Subsection A of this section: (1) the sale,
assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a provider’s assets to
another person; (2) the sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a provider; (3) the issuance of additional
capital stock or partnership, membership or other equity interest by a provider
so as to create a new controlling interest in such a provider; or (4) the entry
by a provider into an agreement with respect to the management or operation of
such provider or its system.
Section 6.5.80. Oversight and Regulation.
   A.   Insurance, Indemnity and Security. Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the Town an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of insurance coverage and a certificate of
insurance as provided in section 6.5.50.(A)(3). A provider shall also indemnify
the Town as set forth in the franchise agreement.
   B.   Oversight. The Town shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance, and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures and controls to enable a provider to
prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the Town at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations.
   C.   Maintain Records. A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the Town, a full and complete set of plans, records and
as-built hard copy maps, and,to the extent the maps are placed in an electronic
format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the Town’s
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights-of-way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks acceptable to the Town which shall include
annotations of all rights-of-way where work will be undertaken. As used herein,
“as-built maps” includes file construction prints. Maps shall be drawn to
scale. As-built maps, including the compatible electronic format, as provided
above, shall be submitted within thirty (30) days of completion of work or
within thirty (30) days after completion of modification and repairs. As-built
maps are not required of the provider who is the incumbent local exchange
carrier for the existing system to the extent they do not exist; and
      2.   Throughout the term, a provider shall maintain complete and accurate
books of account and records of the business, ownership, and operations of a
provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows the Town at all
times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the franchise.
Should the Town reasonably determine that the records are not being maintained
in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the books and/or
records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance with this
section. All financial books and records which are maintained in accordance
with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that regulates
utilities in the state of Utah, and generally accepted accounting principles,
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   D.   Confidentiality. If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state or local
law, upon written request by a provider, such information shall be treated as a
protected record within the meaning of the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act (“GRAMA”), making it available only to those who must have
access to perform their duties on behalf of the Town; provided, that a provider
notifies the Town of, and clearly labels, the information which a provider
deems to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and
labeling shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Providers’ Expense. All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right of Inspection. For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
Town at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records. The provider agrees to reimburse the
Town the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit discloses that the provider
has paid ninety six (96) percent or less of the compensation due the Town for
the period of such audit. In the event the accounting rendered to the Town by
the provider herein is found to be incorrect, then payment shall be made on the
corrected amount within 30 calendar days of written notice, it being agreed
that the Town may accept any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance
thereof by the Town shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount
is in dispute or is later found to be incorrect.
Section 6.5.90. Rights of Town - Enforcement and Remedies.  
   A.   Enforcement. The Town is responsible for enforcing and administering
this chapter, and the Town or its designee is authorized to enforce the same
and give notice required by law or under any franchise agreement.
   B.   Enforcement Provision. Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter
shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation, and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the bond/security fund, and rights of termination or revocation.
   C.   Force Majeure. In the event a provider’s performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider’s control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of
God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides, and fires.
   D.   Extended Operation and Continuity of Services.
      1.   Continuation after Expiration. Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the Town shall have discretion
to permit or require a provider to continue to operate its system or provide
services for an extended period of time not to exceed six months from the date
of such expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its
system under the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter; and
      2.   Continuation by Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier. If the provider is
the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   E.   Removal or Abandonment of Franchise Property.
      1.   Abandoned System. In the event that (a) the use of any portion of
the system is discontinued for a continuous period of 12 months, and 30 days
after no response to written notice from the Town to the address of provider as
set forth in the franchise; (b) any system has been installed on the rights-of-
way without complying with the requirements of this chapter or franchise; or
(c) the provisions of Section 6.5.30. are applicable and no franchise is
granted; a provider, except the provider who is an incumbent local exchange
carrier, shall be deemed to have abandoned such system;
      2.   Removal of Abandoned System. The Town, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights-of-way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights-of-way in as good
or better condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The Town shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights-of-way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section;
      3.   Transfer of Abandoned System to Town. Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the Town, shall submit to the Town a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the Town, transferring to the Town
the ownership of the abandoned system;
      4.   Removal of Above-Ground System. At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the Town shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all above-ground portions of a system from the rights-of-way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than 180 days. If the
provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall not be required to
remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good faith; and
      5.   Leaving the Underground System. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground
system in place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the
rights-of-way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or
other person.
Section 6.5.100. Obligation to Notify.
   Publicizing Work. Before entering onto any private property, a provider
shall make a good faith attempt to contact the property owners in advance,
describe the work to be performed, and obtain the owner’s consent.
Section 6.5.110. General Provisions.
   A.   Conflicts. In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
   B.   Severability. If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal,
state or local court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as conflicting
with any federal or state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the chapter provision in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate,
distinct, and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not
affect the validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the
event that such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise
changed, so that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no
longer in conflict with such law, the provision in question shall return to
full force and effect and shall again be binding on the Town and the provider;
provided, that the Town shall give the provider 30 days, or a longer period of
time as may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such a
rejuvenated provision, written notice of the change before requiring compliance
with such provision.
   C.   New Developments. It shall be the policy of the Town to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently, or economically serve itself or the public.
   D.   Notices. All notices from a provider to the Town required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the mayor or as designated in the
franchise with a copy to the town attorney. A provider shall provide in any
application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number to receive
notices from the Town and shall supplement the same in the franchise. A
provider shall immediately notify the Town of any change in its name, address,
or telephone number.
   E.   Exercise of Police Power. To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the Town reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders, or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers.
Section 6.5.120. Federal, State and Town Jurisdiction.
   A.   Construction. This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable federal and state statutes.
   B.   Chapter Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all franchises
granted or renewed after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter. This chapter shall further apply, to the extent permitted by
applicable federal or state law, to all existing franchises granted prior to
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter and to a provider
providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter.
   C.   Other Applicable Ordinances. A provider’s rights are subject to the
police powers of the Town to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the Town pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the Town zoning
and other land use requirements.
   D.   Town Failure to Enforce. A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the Town
to enforce prompt compliance.
   E.   Construed According to Utah Law. This chapter and any franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
substantive laws of the State of Utah.
Chapter 7.
Cemetery District.
   Section
6.7.10.   Name And Purpose.
   Section
6.7.20.   Definitions.
   Section
6.7.30.   Cemetery Board.
   Section
6.7.40.   Sexton.
   Section
6.7.50.   Cemetery General Provisions.
   Section
6.7.60.   Conveyance; Descent and/or Inheritance.
   Section
6.7.70.   Burial Permits and Fees.
   Section
6.7.80.   Ordering a Grave Opening.
   Section
6.7.90.   Burial Hours/Designated Days and Scheduling.
   Section
6.7.100.   Interment Allowed in One Grave.
   Section
6.7.110.   Cremation Plots.
   Section
6.9.120.   Vaults.
   Section
6.7.130.   Grave Markers and Memorials.
   Section
6.7.140.   Conduct and Access.
   Section
6.7.150.   Exhumation.
   Section
6.7.160.   Severability.
Section 6.7.10. Name And Purpose.
   The Town’s burial grounds shall be known and designated by the name
"Fairfield Town Cemetery". This cemetery is provided and reserved exclusively
for the interment of human remains. It shall be unlawful for any person to
inter human remains within the city limits, except in the Fairfield Town
Cemetery or other state approved endowment cemetery.
Section 6.7.20. Definitions.
   It is the intent of this section to more fully set forth the meaning of
certain terms and phrases utilized within the zoning ordinance in order to
facilitate understanding of said terms and phrases in the sense intended by the
Fairfield Town Council.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
“shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   The following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this chapter:
   Burial. “Burial” means the interment of human remains.
   Burial Vault. “Burial Vault'' means a structure used to hold a casket or
container of cremated remains.
   Certificate of Burial. “Certificate of Burial” means a certification, or
other means of conveyance of burial rights from the Town to a
purchaser.Cremation Plot. “Cremation Plot” means a designated parcel that is
two (2) feet wide by (2) feet long within the Town Cemetery for purposes of
containing the cremated remains of the dead.
   Cremated Remains. “Cremated Remains” means the ashes of an incinerated,
deceased person.
   Disinterment/Exhumations. “Disinterment/Exhumation” means the removal of a
burial vault and/or casket from a plot.
   Funeral Flowers. “Funeral Flowers” means flowers placed on the grave at time
of burial.
   Grave. “Grave” means an excavation in the ground for burial purposes.
   Lot. “Cemetery Lot” means a group of eight (8) contiguous plots.
   Memorials. “Memorials” means items placed on a grave as a remembrance.
Temporary memorials include, but are not limited to, potted plants, flags,
floral wreaths, flowers in vases. Semi-permanent memorials include, but are not
limited to perennial flowers.
   Monument/ Grave Marker. “Monument/Grave Marker” means a marker that is used
to identify the person buried in a plot.
   Non-Paid Town Official. “Non-Paid Town Official” means any individual that
has served as Mayor or on the Town Council or in any capacity as an elected or
appointed official for four (4) years without compensation.
   Plot. “Plot” means a designated parcel that is five (5) feet wide by ten
(10) feet long within the Town Cemetery for purposes of containing the remains
of the dead.
   Resident. “Resident'' means any member of a household whose primary place of
residence is within the Town of Fairfield which meets the Utah State standard
defining a resident. Excepting therefrom any health inpaired individuals who
resided in the Town of Fairfield immediately prior to moving into a care
facility due to varying factors and must live in a care facility, including
family members homes, outside the Town of Fairfield.
   Sexton. “Sexton” means a person who is appointed to oversee the daily
operation of the cemetery, sell and assign plots, and oversee burials and
services..
   Veteran. “Veteran” means a person recognized by the Veterans Administration
as having veteran’s status.
Section 6.7.30. Cemetery Board.
   Powers and Duties. The Cemetery Board, under the direction of the Town
Council, has the entire charge of the cemetery and is authorized to enforce the
rules and regulations pertaining thereto. They may take such action as may be
necessary, though not expressly set forth herein, in order to protect the
property of grave and plot certificate holders, and the cemetery, from damage,
and to preserve the peace, economy and good order of the cemetery. It shall be
the duty of the Cemetery Board to keep the cemetery plat and related records up
to date The Town Recorder shall keep records of charges and payments made
pursuant to this cemetery. The sexton or appointed representative of the
Cemetery Board shall attend every interment in the cemetery and shall register
the names and ages of all persons interred therein, and the place of their
interment. One member shall supervise the opening and closing of graves.
Section 6.7.40. Sexton.
   Powers and Duties. The Cemetery Sexton shall be responsible for the orderly
and lawful operation of the cemetery. The Sexton shall also be responsible for
all duties as described in the cemetery sexton job description.
Section 6.7.50. Cemetery General Provisions.
   A.   Location of Cemetery.  The Fairfield Cemetery is located in Section 29
of the Utah County survey, and shall be known as the Fairfield Town Cemetery.
   B.   Rights of Burial. Each lot contained therein shall contain eight (8)
plots. Purchasers of plots within the cemetery shall acquire the rights of
burial in each plot in perpetuity, subject to the rules and regulations herein
prescribed.
   C.   Purchase of Burial Rights. The Cemetery Sexton is hereby authorized to
sell burial rights in the Town Cemetery for burial purposes only. The Cemetery
Sexton shall keep a complete record of all sales, which record shall describe
the location of the plot purchased and the price paid therefore. The Cemetery
Sexton shall deliver to each purchaser a Certificate of Burial Rights for each
plot purchased, which certificate shall, among other things, describe the
location of the plot, grave number, and purchase price.The purchaser must
provide the names of those persons for whom burial rights have been purchased,
and those names must be entered into the Town Cemetery Records. Purchasing
requirements of burial plots are as follows:
      1.   Only one certificate per individual shall be sold at the resident
price;
      2.   Current residents may purchase a burial plot at the resident price.
All non residents shall purchase burial plots at the non resident price;
      3.   Burial plots may be transferred in accordance with Town policy as
stated on the reverse side of the Burial Right Certificate;
      4.   Any individual that has served as Mayor or on the Town Council or in
any capacity as an elected or appointed official for four (4) years or more
without compensation may purchase two (2) burial plots at a reduced fee; and
      5.   See Fairfield Fee Schedule for burial plot pricing.
   D.   Nature of Title to Graves. The legal title to all property in the
cemetery shall reside with the Town. The purchasers of any grave site or plot
within the cemetery shall acquire only the right to be buried or bury the
remains of other persons and to have said grave site or plot cared for in
accordance with Town policies and rules with respect to the care and
maintenance of the cemetery.
   E.   Plot Improvements. No improvements, changes, or modifications, shall be
made on any plot by any person including the certificate holder or his/her
heirs.
   F.   Monies Collected for the cemetery will be used for the upkeep,
maintenance and operation of the cemetery.
Section 6.7.60. Conveyance; Descent and/or Inheritance.
   A.   Abandonment Through Non-Use. Any plot or burial space that has remained
empty without burial use for a period in excess of ninety-nine (99) years will
be presumed to have been abandoned by the lot purchaser.
   B.   Burial Rights, Transfers and Replacements. Certificates of Burial
Rights may be transferred from the original purchaser to a new owner. The
original certificate must be signed and notarized by the certificate holder or
his/her executor whereupon the Cemetery Board will issue a new certificate.
Proof of executor will be required. A transfer fee in such amount as
established by the Fairfield Town Fee Schedule, shall be paid for the
processing and issuing of a new certificate.
   C.   Resale, Transfer Restrictions. The Certificate of Burial Rights of a
cemetery plot vests the purchaser the right to use such plot for burial
purposes only, for themselves, their heirs, or any such person(s) as they may
choose to permit, provided that such transfer is free of charge and without
compensation, and that the purchaser has the names of those persons for whom
permissions for burial rights have been given entered into the Town Cemetery
Records. A certificate of transfer must take place in accordance with section
6.7.60. (B)
   D.   Replacement of Lost Certificate. A replacement certificate will be
issued upon proof of ownership based upon Fairfield Cemetery records.
Section 6.7.70. Burial Permits and Fees.
   A.   Permits. No body shall be interred, or remains received, unless a
burial report is received from a licensed mortician and mortuary’s obligation
to pay for the burial, or unless the burial charges have been paid in advance
to the Town Recorder and receipt thereof is presented to the cemetery sexton
who then will issue a Certificate of Burial. The Certificate of Burial shall
reflect the full name of the deceased, the date and the place of birth, the
date and place of death and the name and address of the person responsible for
the interment. No body shall be interred, or remains received, without a
Fairfield Town Certificate of Burial.
   B.   Fees.
      1.   The Town Recorder is hereby authorized and required to collect the
required fees.
      2.   Fees shall be in such amounts as established by resolution in the
Fairfield Town Fee Schedule.
      3.   For any other service rendered, the Town shall collect a reasonable
fee to be determined in advance.
      4.   Disinterment shall be of casket only. There shall be no disinterment
of the vault.
Section 6.7.80. Ordering a Grave Opening.
   Arrangements for a grave opening (preparing a grave site for burial) must be
made with the cemetery Sexton by the funeral director, the relatives, or person
having charge of the deceased. The Town of Fairfield will be responsible for
the opening of the grave for the burial and closing of the grave after the
services. The required certificates need to be filled out and fees paid. The
Fairfield Town Sexton MUST be contacted prior to excavating for burial to
verify proper location and to certify that payment has been made for that plot
or gravesite. No private contractors are allowed to open/close graves. Failure
to do so will result in a penalty and criminal trespass charges will be
pursued.
Section 6.7.90. Burial Hours/Designated Days and Scheduling.
   A.   Sundays or Holidays. No graveside service or interment shall be allowed
in the cemetery on Sunday or on any of the holidays officially observed by the
Town.
   B.   All Other Days and Hours. On all other days, graveside services or
interments shall be allowed between the hours of ten (10) o’clock a.m. and four
(4) o’clock p.m.
   C.   Scheduling of Services or Interment. All graveside services and
interments must be arranged through the sexton at least forty eight (48) hours
in advance of the time set and if there is an intervening holiday or Sunday,
arrangements must be made at least seventy two (72) hours in advance. Any
exception to the provisions of this chapter shall be by the approval of the
Cemetery Board only and will result in the payment of additional fees.
Section 6.7.100. Interment Allowed in One Grave.
   A.   One interment only shall be allowed in a casket except for the
following:
      1.   A parent with their infant child;
      2.   Two (2) children who are buried at the same time; or
      3.   For the addition of one cremated remains placed in the casket at the
time of burial.
   B.   Double depth burials shall not be permitted in the Fairfield Cemetery.
   C.   No more than one (1) casket shall be allowed in a grave plot, except
that;
      1.   Two (2) cremation vaults shall be no less than two (2) feet below
the surface of the ground.
   D.   No cremation vault shall be placed in the same plot as a regular burial
vault. A grave plot may contain either one (1) full size vault or two (2)
cremation vaults.
Section 6.7.110. Cremation Plots.
   A.   A separate section of the cemetery shall be designated for Cremation
plots.
   B.   Cremation plot size shall be 2 ft. by 2 ft.
   C.   Interments in the section designated for cremations shall run in
consecutive order, starting on the south east corner and running east to west..
Section 6.7.120. Vaults.
   A.   Construction of Vaults. Before a casket is accepted for burial, it must
be housed within a concrete vault having a fixed top and side panel, edged
restraints incorporated into the construction, and having a strength capable of
uniformly withstanding a stress of seven and one-half (7 ½) pounds per square
inch. If a particular type of construction of a vault is rejected by the
sexton, the mortician or party utilizing the vault shall bear the burden of
proving compliance with these strength requirements.
   B.   Vaults for Cremated Remains. Cremated remains must be placed in a
cremation vault made of fiberglass, concrete or metal with a strength deemed
adequate by the sexton. Cremation vault shall be no larger than 12 in. x 12x
in. x 12 in.
   C.   The top of the cremation vault shall be at least twelve (12) inches
below ground level.
   D.   Cremation burials shall not be allowed when the frost level is greater
than four (4) inches.
Section 6.7.130. Grave Markers and Memorials.
   A.   Identification of Graves. All graves shall be identified by a marker or
monument made of metal, stone or cement and placed at the head of the grave.
All markers or monuments shall face east. No more than one (1) monument or
marker shall be permitted for each grave, except as provided for in this
Chapter of this code, or where a traditional military marker is appropriate in
addition to another monument. Where burial of the remains of more than one (1)
person in a single plot is permitted by this code, either a joint, combined
monument or small individual markers may be used, provided they can be
adequately accommodated within the limits of the plot, but, in any event, the
form and size of the monument or marker shall be within the discretionary
approval of the Cemetery Board.
   B.   Monument Placement. The monument shall be placed upon a flat concrete
foundation at the head of the grave, not less than four (4) inches nor more
than six (6) inches deep having a cement lawn strip extending beyond each side
of the upright portion of the monument a distance of six (6) inches.
   C.   Monument Size. Single headstone monuments shall not be more than 30 in.
wide by 4 ft. long including the concrete foundation. Double headstone
monuments shall not be more than 30 in. wide by 5 ft. long, including the
concrete foundation. No monument shall be more than six (6) ft. in height.
   D.   Cremation Monument Size and Placement. Monuments inside the area set
aside for cremation burials, shall not be more than 1 ft. x 1 ft. and shall be
placed in the center of the plot.
   E.   No Monument or Marker on Grave. In the event the Certificate of Burial
Rights holder of a plot, or relatives of a deceased person buried in such plot
do not place a monument or marker with the name of the deceased plainly
inscribed theron upon the grave within ninety (90) days after interment, the
sexton shall have the right to do so with a minimal stone or cement marker at
the expense of the person responsible for the interned within said plot. No
grave will be dug without proof of monument purchase.
   F.   Semi-Permanent Memorials and Vegetation. No person shall have the right
to plant shrubs, flowers or other semi-permanent memorial items on a plot
without the approval of the Sexton. No grave in the cemetery shall be filled,
refilled or sodded, except under the direction of the sexton. Approval will be
based on the following criteria:
      1.   Plant maintenance requirements;
      2.   landscape value and hardiness;
      3.   interference with other plots;
      4.   plants and mowing operations;
      5.   consistency with landscape design; and
      6.   Trees shall be planted along the entry road into the cemetery with a
plaque noting family name and associated grave location. Plaques furnished by
families shall be approximately one (1) foot square.
   G.   Temporary Memorials Prior to Headstone. All temporary memorials shall
be removed ten (10) days after the setting of the monument.
   H.   Memorials. All temporary memorials shall be placed in a raised,
adjustable receptacle that is either in the monument or in the concrete border
that surrounds the monument. Temporary memorials shall be removed without
notice by the sexton or cemetery employees when they become withered,
discolored, torn, broken or vandalized. Funeral flowers will be allowed to
remain for three (3) business days after interment, after which the sexton or
designee may remove them based on the above criteria. Other temporary memorial
items such as glass containers, sticks, iron rods, pegs, ceramic pots or other
containers that may pose safety hazards will be removed by cemetery employees.
Section 6.7.140. Conduct and Access.
   A.   Conduct. Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment and
repose of the dead. Strict observance of decorum due such a place is expected
of all persons. Loitering is expressly prohibited.
   B.   Location and Access. Access to the Fairfield Cemetery is restricted to
daylight hours.
   C.   Traffic Rules, Driving and Parking. The following provisions of the
municipal traffic ordinances relative to the operation of vehicles and shall be
in effect in the cemetery, except as herein otherwise modified by this
ordinance:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motorized vehicle or
other equipment within the municipal cemetery at a speed greater than ten (10)
miles per hour;
      2.   Vehicles must only drive on designated travel lanes within the
cemetery.except for authorized personnel;
      3.   Motorcycles and all terrain vehicles (ATVs) are permitted in the
cemetery but are subject to the same policies and procedures as motorized
vehicles;
      4.   Bicycles are permitted, but are subject to the same policies and
procedures as motorized vehicles; and
      5.   Cutting corners and driving on the lawns is prohibited; and
   D.   Animals in Cemetery. Horses, dogs, or other types of pets or livestock
are not permitted on the cemetery grounds unless part of a procession unless
allowed by State or Federal regulations.
   E.   Children in Cemetery. Children under the age of twelve (12) years shall
not be allowed in the cemetery unless accompanied by their parents or other
adults, except for the purposes of attending authorized funerals or, in the
company of adults, placing flowers on the grave of a deceased relative or
friend, or performing any other customary evidence of respect in accordance
with their religious principles.
Section 6.7.150. Exhumation.
   Disinterments are regulated by Utah County. No disinterment shall be allowed
in the Fairfield Cemetery without first securing a disinterment permit from the
County and also a disinterment permit from Fairfield Town. All Town fees
associated with the disinterment shall be paid before the Town disinterment
permit is issued. see Fairfield Town Fee Schedule. All disinterment
arrangements shall be coordinated through the Fairfield Town Sexton.
   All disinterments shall be of the casket only and shall not include the
vault. Vaults shall not be disinterred.
Section 6.7.160. Severability.
   If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal, state or local
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as conflicting with any federal
or state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in any way in order
to conform to the requirements of any such law and all appellate remedies with
regard to the validity of the chapter provision in question are exhausted, such
provision shall be considered a separate, distinct, and independent part of
this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability
of all other provisions hereof. In the event that such law is subsequently
repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that the provision which
had been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with such law, the
provision in question shall return to full force and effect and shall again be
binding on the Town and the provider; provided, that the Town shall give the
provider thirty (30) days, or a longer period of time as may be reasonably
required for a provider to comply with such a rejuvenated provision, written
notice of the change before requiring compliance with such provision.
TITLE 7.
RESERVED
TITLE 8.
RESERVED
TITLE 9.
BUILDING REGULATIONS.
Chapter 1
Building.
   Section
9.1.10.   Permit Required.
   Section
9.1.20.   Application For Permit.
   Section
9.1.30.   Site Plan & Document Requirements.
   Section
9.1.40.   Approval of Site Plan Procedure.
   Section
9.1.50.   Approval of Building Permit Procedure.
   Section
9.1.60.   Time Limits For Use and Building Permit Approval.
   Section
9.1.70.   Variations of Plan Prohibited Without Approval.
   Section
9.1.80   Temporary Occupancy and Storage Structures.
   Section
9.1.90.   Permit Fees.
   Section
9.1.100.   Stop Work Order.
   Section
9.1.110.   Entry Powers.
   Section
9.1.120.    Adoption of Building Code.
   Section
9.1.130.   Successor Codes.
   Section
9.1.140.   Construction Mitigation.
   Section
9.1.150.   Automatic Fire Sprinklers Systems.
   Section
9.1.160.   Violations; Penalty.
Section 9.1.10. Permit Required.
   Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a building or
structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert, or
replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the installation
of which is regulated by the Building Code, or to cause any such work to be
performed, shall first make application to the Fairfield Building Department
and obtain the required permit. Permits shall not be required for work exempt
from a permit as outlined in the adopted codes. Work exempted from a permit
does not deem to grant authorization for work to be done in any manner in
violation of the Building Code. A homeowner may be subject to a Class B
Misdemeanor if work requiring a permit is performed without first securing the
permit(s) required. Anyone who received payment or equivalent value to perform
work requiring a permit may be subject to a Class C Misdemeanor if the work is
performed without first securing the permit(s) required.
Section 9.1.20. Application For Permit.
   A building permit shall be secured from the Building Department through
submission of an application accompanied by all required documents and fees.
Section 9.1.30. Site Plan and Document Requirements.
   A.   Upload stamped site plan and required documents in PDF format to the
Towns website. The site plan must include the following:
      1.   Dimensions and setbacks of proposed structure;
      2.   Location of a propane tank (if applicable);
      3.   Location of the septic system including the tank and drain field;
      4.   Location of power lines and meter;
      5.   Location, in feet, of the nearest fire hydrant (if over 700 feet an
estimate may be used);
      6.   Location and distance, measured in feet, from the property line to
the nearest Fairfield Town water line. If the distance is more than twelve
hundred (1200) feet, an estimate may be used. Contact water Fairfield Water
Department.
      7.   Location of all wells whether they are in use or not;
      8.   An appropriate descriptive legend, including north arrow, scale, and
legal description;
      9.   Name and contact information of the architect or engineer
responsible for the preparation of the site plan;
      10.   The existing (or proposed) zoning;
      11.   Dimensions, setbacks, and height of all existing structures located
on the property;
      12.   Measured dimensions of all recorded lot lines;
      13.   Location of all existing and proposed drives and parking areas
including types of surfacing, parking layout, and dimensions;
      14.   Show existing and proposed access roads, drives, turnout locations,
parking road width, rights-of-way and dedications. (see Road Ordinance);
      15.   Show all existing easements, vacated easements and rights-of-way. A
ten (10) foot utility easement along all roads must be shown;
      16.   Must meet all required minimum setbacks;
      17.   Locations, sizes, and types of existing trees over six (6) inches
in diameter (before and after proposed development);
      18.   All proposed fences, screens and freestanding architectural walls,
including typical cross-sections and the heights above ground;
      19.   Stormwater engineering (upon request) including existing and
proposed grading of the site, the location of existing and proposed utilities,
stormwater calculations for a one hundred (100) year storm, the detention area
on site that will detain the one hundred (100) year storm; and
      20.   Any other information required by the Planning Commission, Building
Officials, Fire Department, or Town Council.
   B.   Documents Required:
      1.   Warranty Deed of Trust for property;
      2.   Copy of the Record of Survey filed with the Utah County Surveyor’s
office;
      3.   Boundary line agreement, if applicable;
      4.   Any other documents required by the Planning Commission, Building
Heads, Fire Department or Town Council pertinent to the proposed development or
building.
Rev. ord. 03142023-1, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 9.1.40. Approval of Site Plan Procedure.
   A.   The Site Plan approval process shall include the following:
      1.   Submit Application to Fairfield Town. (www.fairfieldtown.org/);
      2.   Upload site plan and other required documents (PDF ONLY);
      3.   The Building Department will check that all required plans and
documents have been submitted;
      4.   The Planning Commission will require a recorded survey and
subdivision plat if applicable;
      5.   The Planning Commission will review the site plan at the next
regular meeting; and
      6.   The Planning Commission shall review the site plan and building
elevations. The Planning Commission shall confirm compliance with architectural
design, zoning and any other standards for buildings and structures to assure
compliance with the general plan and with the Town's generally applicable
policies and regulations.
   G.   Once the Planning Commission is satisfied that all requirements have
been met, they will approve the site plan. The applicant may then apply for a
building permit.
Section 9.1.35 Site Plan and Document Requirements for Accessory Buildings and
Accessory Structures.
   A.   Upload site plan and required documents in PDF format to the Towns
website.    The site plan must include the following (as applicable):
      1.   Dimensions and setbacks of proposed structure;
      2.   Dimensions, setbacks and height of all existing structures located
on property;
      3.   Statement of proposed use of structure as per currently adopted
International Building Code;
      4.   Location of propane tank(s) (if applicable);
      5.   Location of septic system including tank and drain field;
      6.   Location of existing utilities, pipelines, and transmission lines;
proposed utility lines;
      7.   Location of the nearest fire hydrant in feet;
      8.   Location of the nearest Fairfield water line in feet to the property
line;
      9.   Location of all wells in use or not;
      10.   The existing (or proposed) zoning;
      11.   Dimensions, setbacks and height of all existing structures located
on property;
      12.   Location of all existing and proposed drives and parking areas
including types of surfacing, parking layout, and dimensions;
      13.   Show all road width, rights-of-way and dedications (see Road
Ordinance);
      1.   Any other information required by the Planning Commission, Building
Officials, Fire Department, or Town Council.
   B.   Documents Required:
      1.   Arsenic report (if there is an excavated foundation)
      2.   Any other documents required by the Planning Commission, Building
Heads, Fire Department, or Town Council pertinent to the proposed development
or building.
Rev. ord. 03142023-1, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 9.1.50. Approval of Building Permit Procedure.
   A.   Submit building permit application to Fairfield Town.
(www.fairfieldtown.org/);
   B.   The Building Department will check that all plans, deeds ,dedications
and any other required documents needed have been submitted and approved and
that the Planning Commission has approved the site plan.
   C.   Pay estimated building fees to Fairfield Town.
   D.   The Building Department will submit plans and documents to a contracted
engineer for plan review and inspections.
   E.   Once plans have been approved, Fairfield Town will evaluate if any
other building permit fees need to be paid at this time.
   F.   The Building Department will issue a building permit along with name
and numbers for inspections.
   G.   Once all inspections are completed by the contracted engineer the
building department will do a final review and inspection.
   H.   Once final review and inspection is completed and any remaining fees
are paid then an occupancy permit will be issued.
   I.   The Building Department may revoke at any time a permit which has been
issued for any building constructed or being constructed or which would be or
result, if constructed, in a violation of the Building Code or any Ordinance of
this municipality.
   J.   Documents Required:
      1.   Stamped digital building plans;
      2.   Proof of Fairfield acceptable culinary water transfer or well
permit. State approved culinary water transfer and point of diversion change,
or well permit acceptable to the Town of Fairfield;
      3.   Septic system plan approved and signed by Utah County;
      4.   Signed approval from Cedar Valley Fire Department ;
      5.   Contractors Hold Harmless Agreement;
      6.   Arsenic report;
      7.   Any other documents required by the Planning Commission, Building
Heads, Fire Department, or Town Council pertinent to the proposed development
or building; and
      8.   Site Plan signed and approved by the Planning Department.
Rev. ord. 03142023-1, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 9.1.60. Time Limits for Use and Building Permit Approval.
   All use approvals, and all building permit approvals, shall be valid for a
maximum period of one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of approval. If
work has not commenced, or a use or building established within one hundred
eighty (180) days from date of approval, the approval, permit or license, as
required and approved, shall be void and a new application, approval, permit or
license shall be required.
Section 9.1.70. Variations of Building Plan Prohibited Without Approval.
   Nomaterial, plan modification or use variation from the approved plan shall
be allowed unless such variations shall first have been approved in writing by
the Building Department or designee.
Section 9.1.80. Temporary Dwelling and Storage Structures.
   A.   Temporary Dwellings incident to the Property. The Building Department
may approve the use of a temporary dwelling incidental to the construction of a
one-family dwelling for a maximum of one year while building a home to live in
on the same lot, provided;
      1.   A bond in lawful money equal to the cost of removing the temporary
dwelling but not less than $1,000.00, is first posted with the Town of
Fairfield to guarantee the timely removal of the temporary dwelling.
      2.   The owner(s) of the lot and temporary dwelling agree to remove said
temporary dwelling within the time of the bond to obtain a full refund of the
bond or otherwise to allow the Town to enter and remove the temporary dwelling
using the bond to defray costs.
      3.   The owner(s) has obtained a building permit for a permanent
residential building.
      4.   The temporary dwelling shall remain on the lot no longer than the
current term of the building permit for the single-family dwelling; the
completion date of the conventional dwelling or 365 days, whichever is less.
Exception: The Planning Commission may grant one extension period of an
additional 365 days upon finding that the construction of the permanent
dwelling is being carried out diligently toward completion.
      5.   The temporary dwelling unit shall be self-contained and the owner
must obtain a temporary dwelling permit to ensure that the temporary dwelling
is in compliance with the County Health Department, building code, and with the
Fairfield Town’s requirements.
   B.   Temporary Storage Structures. Temporary buildings and yards for the
storage of construction materials and equipment in any zone may require a
temporary use permit by the Planning Commission for a temporary office and
buildings and/or yards for storing vehicles, materials and equipment incidental
to a construction project. The permit shall be valid for a period of not more
than one (1) year, the permit may be renewable throughout the length of the
project. The buildings shall be removed and the yard restored to its original
state upon completion of the project and expiration of the permit.
   C.   Public Park Host Trailer. In any zone, the Planning Commission may
issue a temporary use permit for a host trailer provided:
      1.   The host trailer is located on the same parcel of land as a publicly
owned and/or Town approved park site;
      2.   The host trailer is removed from the park site when the terms of the
temporary use permit have expired;
      3.   A permit must be obtained during each calendar year by the public
agency of the park; and
      4.   The host trailer shall be self contained or approvals for water and
sanitary sewer shall be obtained from the County or State Health Department.
See
9.1.80.(E).
Section 9.1.90. Permit Fees.
   A.   fee for each building permit, electrical permit, plumbing permit and
fire permit shall be paid to the building official or Town recorder in such
amount as shall be established from time to time by resolution duly enacted by
the Town Council. Until such a resolution is adopted as to building permit
fees, the building permit fees set forth in the uniform building code shall
remain applicable. The administrative and enforcement provisions of the uniform
building code relating to building permit fees shall be deemed to apply to the
electrical and plumbing permit fees, unless otherwise provided by resolution of
the Town Council. 
Section 9.1.95. Zoning Compliance Certificate.
   A.   Zoning Compliance Certificate shall be secured from the Building
Department through the submission of an application accompanied by all required
documents and fees.
   B.   Site Plan and Document Requirements.
      1.   Upload the site plan and required documents in PDF format to the
Town website.
      2.   The site plan must include the following:
         a.   Dimensions and setbacks of proposed structure;
         b.   Location of propane tank (if applicable);
         c.   location of septic system including tank and drain field (if
applicable);
         d.   Location of power lines and meter (if applicable);
         e.   Location of the nearest fire hydrant in feet (if applicable);
         f.   The location and distance, measured in feet, from the property
line to the nearest Fairfield water line, (if applicable);
         g.   The existing (or proposed) zoning;
         h.   Any other information required by the Planning Commission,
Building Officials, Fire Department, or Town Council.
         i.   Arsenic report (if there is an excavated foundation);
         j.   Signed and approved site plan by the Planning Department if there
will be a permanent foundation.
         k.   If Agricultural Building, a signed affidavit stating that the
structure shall be used for agricultural purposes only.
Rev. ord. 03142023-1, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 9.1.100. Stop Work Order.
   The Building Department or designee shall have the power to order all work
stopped on construction, alteration or repairs of buildings in the municipality
when such work is being done in violation of any provisions of any Utah State
adopted construction codes, any ordinance relating thereto, or in violation of
the subdivision or zoning ordinance. Work shall not be resumed after the
issuance of such order except on the written permission of the inspector. If
the stop work order is an oral one it shall be followed by a written order
within one hour. Such a written stop work order may be served by any peace
officer or other authorized person.
Section 9.1.110. Entry Powers.
   The Building Department or designee shall have the power to enter into any
building or the premises where the work of altering, repairing or constructing
any building or structure is being performed, for the purpose of making
inspections at any reasonable hour, pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Code.
Section 9.1.120. Adoption of Building Code.
   Inaccordance with Section 15A-1-204 of the U.C.A., Fairfield Town shall
adhere to the State Construction Code and recognize the construction codes as
amended by Utah Title 15A-3.
Section 9.1.130. Successor Codes.
   The adoption of any and all codes, as established herein, as the adopted
codes of the city, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they
become adopted by the state and shall become effective by the Town immediately
upon passage by the state legislature
Section 9.1.140 Construction Mitigation.
   The Building Department, or designee, has the power to assess sites where
construction has taken place or will take place and at their discretion to
require mitigation measures to ensure the safety of the public, property, and
community.
Section 9.1.150. Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems.
   A.   The Town hereby finds and determines that under certain conditions, an
automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed in structures built in
accordance with the requirements of the international residential code, as
adopted in the state construction code, when any of the following subsections
apply:
      1.   The structure is located in an urban wildland interface area, as
provided in the Utah wildland urban interface code, adopted as a construction
code under the state construction code; and does not meet the requirements
described in Utah Code Annotated section 65A-8-203(3)(a) and the Utah
administrative code section R652-122-200, minimum standards for wildland fire
ordinance.
      2.   The structure is in an area where a public water distribution system
with fire hydrants does not exist as required in Utah administrative code
section R309-550-5, water main design.
      3.   The only fire apparatus access road has a grade greater than ten
percent (10%) for more than five hundred (500) continual feet.
      4.   The water supply to the structure does not provide at least five
hundred (500) gallons fire flow per minute for a minimum of thirty (30)
minutes, if the total square foot living space of the structure is equal to or
less than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      5.   The water supply to the structure does not provide at least seven
hundred fifty (750) gallons per minute fire flow for a minimum of thirty (30)
minutes, if the total square foot living space exceeds five thousand (5,000)
square feet, but is equal to or less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      6.   The water supply to the structure does not provide at least one
thousand (1,000) gallons per minute fire flow for a minimum of thirty (30)
minutes, if the total square foot living space exceeds ten thousand (10,000)
square feet.
Section 9.1.160. Violations; Penalty.
   A.   Violation. No person, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee, or occupant
shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
demolish, equip, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of the applicable sections of the codes adopted pursuant to this
chapter or of any order issued by the building official thereunder.
   B.   Penalty. Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and upon conviction
therefore, shall be subject to penalty. In all instances where the violation of
this chapter is a continuing violation, a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues.
Chapter 3
Fairfield Outdoor Lighting Standards.
   Section
9.3.10.    Purpose.
   Section
9.3.20.    Definitions.
   Section
9.3.30    Conformance with Applicable Codes.
   Section
9.3.40.   Conflict Regulations.
   Section
9.3.50.   Applicability.
   Section
9.3.60.   General Outdoor Lighting Standards.
   Section
9.3.70.   Outdoor Lighting Standards by Type.
   Section
9.3.80.   Prohibited Lighting.
   Section
9.3.90.   Special Uses.
   Section
9.3.100.   Exemptions and Nonconforming Lights.
   Section
9.3.110.   Plan Submittal and Evidence of Compliance.
   Section
9.3.120.   Approved Materials and Methods of Construction or Installation/
Operation.
   Section
9.3.130.   Violations, Legal Actions and Penalties.
   9.3.140.   Tables and Information Sheets.
Section 9.3.10. Purpose.
   Itis the purpose and intent of this chapter to balance the goals of
providing efficient and practical lighting for residents and business in
Fairfield Town, maintaining the Towns rural character, minimizing light
pollution that may interfere with the enjoyment, health, safety, and welfare of
Fairfield Town citizens and visitors or with the adjacent military activity,
and reducing energy consumption.
Section 9.3.20. Definitions.
   It is the intent of this section to more fully set forth the meaning of
certain terms and phrases utilized within the zoning ordinance in order to
facilitate understanding of said terms and phrases in the sense intended by the
Fairfield Town Council.
   For purposes of this Code, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
“shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   Direct Illumination. “Direct Illumination” means illumination resulting from
light emitted directly from a lamp, luminary, or reflector and is not light
diffused through translucent signs or reflected from other surfaces such as the
ground or building faces.
   Display Lot or Area. “Display Lot or Area” means outdoor areas where active
nighttime sales activity occurs and where accurate color perception of
merchandise by customers is required. To qualify as a display lot, one of the
following specific uses must occur: automobile sales, boat sales, tractor
sales, building supply sales, gardening or nursery sales, and assembly lots.
Uses not on this list may be approved as display lot uses by the planning
director or designee.
   Foot-candle. “Foot-candle” means one lumen per square foot; unit of
illuminance. It is the luminous flux per unit area in the imperial system. One
(1) foot-candle equals approximately one-tenth (0.093) lux.
   Full Cutoff Light Fixture. “Full Cutoff Light Fixture” means fixtures that
are independently certified by the manufacturers, and do not allow light to be
emitted above the fixture, and the fixture reduces glare by limiting the light
output to less than ten (10) percent at and below ten (10) degrees below the
horizontal.
   Fully Shielded Light Fixture. “Fully Shielded Light Fixture” means a light
fixture that is shielded in such a manner that light rays emitted by the
fixture, either directly from the lamp or indirectly from the fixture, are
projected below a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on the
fixture where light is emitted. The term “full cutoff” is often substituted for
the term “fully shielded.” The terms are not equivalent. Fully shielded
luminaires emit no direct uplight, but have no limitation on the intensity in
the region between eighty (80) degrees and ninety (90) degrees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.png]
 
   Glare. “Glare” means the sensation produced by a bright source within the
visual field that is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are
adapted to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and
visibility; blinding light. The magnitude of glare depends on such factors as
the size, position, and brightness of the source, and on the brightness level
to which the eyes are adapted.
   Installed. “Installed” means a light fixture attached or fixed in place,
whether or not connected to a power source, of any outdoor light fixture.
   Light Pollution. “Light Pollution” means any adverse effect of manmade
light.
   Light Trespass. “Light Trespass” means light spill falling over property
lines that illuminates adjacent grounds or buildings in an objectionable
manner.
   Lumen. “Lumen” means a unit used to measure the actual amount of visible
light which is produced by a lamp as specified by the manufacturer.
   Luminary. “Luminary” means the complete lighting assembly, less the support
assembly.
   Motion Sensing Security Lighting. “Motion Sensing Security Lighting” means
any fixture designed, and properly adjusted, to illuminate an area around a
residence or other building by means of switching on a lamp when motion is
detected inside the area or perimeter, and switching the lamp off when the
detected motion ceases.
   Net Acreage. “Net Acreage” means the remaining ground area of a parcel after
deleting all portions for proposed and existing public rights-of-way and
undeveloped area.
   Nit. “Nit” means the standard unit of brightness for electronic and digital
signage. It is a measure of the light being emitted by the sign, in contrast to
foot-candles which measure the brightness of the surface area or object that is
being lighted.
   Non Essential Commercial Exterior Lighting. “Non Essential Commercial
Exterior Lighting” means any signs, parking lot lighting, display lighting,
exterior building lighting, directional lighting or landscape lighting that is
primarily for aesthetic or advertising purposes and does not directly
contribute to the safety or security of the premises.
   Outdoor Light Fixture. “Outdoor Light Fixture” means an outdoor illuminating
device, outdoor lighting or reflective surface, lamp or similar device,
permanently installed or portable, used for illumination, decoration, or
advertisement. Such devices shall include, but are not limited to, lights used
for:
      1.   Buildings and structures;
      2.   Recreational areas;
      3.   Parking lot lighting;
      4.   Landscape lighting;
      5.   Architectural lighting;
      6.   Signs (advertising or other);
      7.   Street lighting;
      8.   Product display area lighting;
      9.   Building overhangs and open canopies;
      10.   Security lighting.
   Outdoor Recreation Facility. “Outdoor Recreation Facility” means an area
designed for active recreation, whether publicly or privately owned, including,
but not limited to, parks, baseball diamonds, soccer and football fields, golf
courses, tennis courts, and swimming pools.
   Partially Shielded Light Fixture. “Partially Shielded Light Fixture” means a
fixture shielded in such a manner that no more than 10 percent of the light
emitted directly from the lamp or indirectly from the fixture is projected at
an angle above the horizontal, as determined by a photometric test or certified
by the manufacturer. Luminaries mounted under canopies or other structures such
that the surrounding structure effectively shields the light in the same manner
are also considered partially shielded for the purposes of this code.
   Seasonal Decorations. “Seasonal Decorations” means strings of holiday
lights, uplighting or internally lit inflatable or plastic decorations, or
other lighting of holiday or seasonal decorations.
   Security Lighting. “Security Lighting” means lighting designed to illuminate
a property or grounds for the purpose of visual security.
   Unshielded Fixture. “Unshielded Fixture” means any fixture that allows light
to be emitted above the horizontal directly from the lamp or indirectly from
the fixture or a reflector.
   Uplighting. “Uplighting” means lighting that is directed in such a manner as
to shine light rays above the horizontal plane.
   Watt. “Watt” means the unit used to measure the electrical power consumption
(not the light output) of a lamp. (
Exhibit A)
Section 9.3.30. Conformance with Applicable Codes.
   All outdoor lighting and lighting fixtures shall be installed in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter and the applicable building codes currently
in effect in the Town. (Exhibit A)
Section 9.3.40. Conflict Regulations.
   Where any provision of federal, state, county, or town statutes, codes, or
laws conflicts with any provision of this chapter, the most restrictive shall
govern unless enforcement will result in a violation of the federal, state,
county or town statutes, codes, or laws. (
Exhibit A)
Section 9.3.50. Applicability.
   A.   New Lighting. All outdoor lighting installed after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall conform to the standards
established in this chapter.
   B.   Existing Lighting. All lighting installed prior to the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall not be subject to the
requirements of this chapter, except that any existing lighting that is
directly impacted as part of a project that requires an application for a
Fairfield Town site plan or building permit is required to be brought into
conformance with this chapter. All lighting shall be upgraded to conform to
this chapter prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or final
inspection.
   C.   Public Roadways. This chapter does not apply to lights owned or
maintained by the Town, state or federal government which are within any road
rights-of-way or used for traffic or safety purposes.
(
Exhibit A)
Section 9.3.60. General Outdoor Lighting Standards.
   A.   Lamp and Shielding. All permanent light fixtures are required to be
full cutoff fixtures with the light source fully shielded for all uses and
directed downward, including single-family and multifamily residential uses.
   B.   Low Pressure Sodium Lighting. Due to their high energy efficiency, long
life and spectral characteristics, low pressure sodium (LPS) lamps are the
preferred illumination source throughout the Town. Their use is encouraged for
outdoor illumination whenever it would not be detrimental to the use of the
property.
   C.   Light Trespass Standard. All light fixtures, including security
lighting, shall be aimed and shielded so that the direct illumination shall be
confined to the property boundaries of the source. Particular care is to be
taken to ensure that the direct illumination does not fall onto or across any
public or private street or road. Motion sensing light fixtures shall be fully
shielded and properly adjusted, according to the manufacturer’s instructions,
to turn off when detected motion ceases.
   D.   Total Outdoor Light Output Standards. Nonresidential total outdoor
light output shall not exceed one hundred thousand (100,000) lumens per net
acre for all development except single-family residential uses. This cap is not
intended to be achieved in all cases or as a design goal. Instead, design goals
should be the lowest levels of lumens necessary to meet the lighting
requirements of the site.
   E.   Total Outdoor Light Output Standards for Single-Family Residential
Uses. Outdoor lighting for single-family residential uses is not subject to a
lumens per net acre cap, but is subject to the lamp fixture and shielding
requirements.
   F.   Height. Any lighting fixture attached to a structure shall be placed
below the eave or parapet, whichever is lower. Different height restrictions
may be imposed as a condition of approval by the Planning Commission or Town
Council.
   G.   Commercial Lighting Time Limitations. All nonessential commercial
exterior lighting shall only continue in operation until 11:00 p.m. or for as
long as the business is open or area is in active use and shall remain off
until the business reopens or until daylight the following day. (Exhibit A)].
Section 9.3.70. Outdoor Lighting Standards by Type.
   A.   Parking Lot Standards. Parking lot lighting poles shall be sized in
such a manner that the top of any fixture does not exceed seventeen (17) feet
above the adjacent grade. Parking area lights are encouraged to be greater in
number, lower in height and lower in light level, as opposed to fewer in
number, higher in height and higher in light level. Low pressure sodium (LPS)
lamps are encouraged. Alternatively, in industrial areas, parking lot lighting
poles may be allowed to a height of 30 feet above adjacent grade provided full-
cutoff light fixtures with built-in motion sensors for each pole are used.
Motion sensors must reduce the light level to fifty (50) percent when no motion
is detected for thirty (30) minutes.
   B.   Luminaire Mounting Height. Freestanding luminaires within a residential
zone, except street lights, shall be mounted at a height no greater than twelve
(12) feet from ground level to the top of the luminaries.
   C.   Landscape and Accent Lighting. Subject to the approval of the planning
director or designee or designee, ground-mounted lighting may be allowed to
accent unique features of a building and/or surrounding landscaping (such as
outstanding architectural features, specimen trees with dense year-round
foliage or large native shrub masses). Architectural lighting is allowed;
provided that a full cutoff light fixture is used, and the source of
illumination is directed downward.
   D.   Flagpoles. Uplighting for flags is permitted, provided the flag is of a
government and the maximum lumen output is 1,300 lumens.
   E.   Signs. See Title
10.21.(10)(20)(30) Fairfield Town Sign Regulations and Sign Permits.
Section 9.3.80. Prohibited Lighting.
   A.   Searchlights, laser source lights, strobe or flashing lights, illusion
lights or any similar high intensity light shall not be permitted except in
emergencies by police and fire personnel or for approved special events.
   B.   Uplighting. Except as specifically allowed in this chapter and Title
9.3.80, uplighting is prohibited.
Section 9.3.90. Special Uses.
   A.   Outdoor Recreational Facilities. Lighting for outdoor recreation
facilities that does not comply with this chapter may be approved with the
project site plan based on the following:
      1.   When the proposed lumens per acre exceed the lumens per net acre
limits, the installation shall be designed to achieve no greater than the
minimum illuminance levels for the activity as recommended by the Illuminating
Engineering Society of North America (IESNA).
      2.   Every such lighting system design shall be certified by a Utah
registered engineer as conforming to all applicable restrictions of this code.
      3.   Such lighting shall not include any light trespass as determined by
the Fairfield Building Department or designee.
      4.   Full cutoff light fixtures shall be required for fields designed for
amateur, recreational or nonprofessional sports activity. For professional
level sports facilities where full cutoff fixtures are not utilized, acceptable
luminaries shall include those which:
         a.   Are provided with internal or external glare control louvers, or
both, and installed so as to minimize uplight and off-site light trespass as
determined by the planning director or designee; and
         b.   Are installed and maintained with aiming angles that permit no
greater than two percent of the light emitted by each fixture to project above
the horizontal.
   B.   Outdoor Display Lots. Outdoor display lots shall adhere to the
following requirements:
      1.   All such lighting shall utilize full cutoff fixtures;
      2.   When the proposed lumens exceed the per acre limits, the
installation shall be designed to achieve no greater than the minimum
illuminance levels for the activity as recommended by the Illuminating
Engineering Society of North America (IESNA);
      3.   Such lighting shall not include any light trespass as determined by
the planning director or designee or designee; and
      4.   Every such lighting system design shall be certified by a Utah
registered engineer as conforming to all applicable restrictions of this code.
   B.   Service Station Canopies. All service station canopies shall comply
with the following:
      1.   Shielding. All luminaires shall be flush with the lower surface of
canopies and utilize flat glass or plastic covers; and
      2.   Total Under-Canopy Output. The total light output used for
illuminating service station canopies, defined as the sum of under-canopy
initial bare-lamp outputs in lumens, shall not exceed forty (40) lumens per
square foot of canopy. All lighting mounted under the canopy, except internally
illuminated signs, shall be included in the total. Fifty (50) percent of the
total lumen output of all lamps mounted within or under a canopy shall be
included in the lumen per acre cap.
   C.   Other Special Use Lighting. Lighting for special uses that are not
specified in this chapter must be approved by the Planning Commission through a
conditional use permit or along with a site plan application. (
Exhibit. A)
Section 9.3.100. Exemptions and Nonconforming Lights.
   A.   Emergency lighting, used by police, firefighting, or medical personnel,
or at their direction, is exempt from all requirements of this code for as long
as the emergency exists.
   B.   Spotlights are permitted for single-family residential, provided they
are fully shielded and directed downward.
   C.   Swimming pool and decorative water fountain lighting. Underwater
lighting used for the illumination of swimming pools and decorative water
fountains is exempt from the lamp type and shielding standards, though they
must conform to all other provisions of this code.
   D.   Seasonal decorations. Seasonal decorations are exempt from this
chapter. (
Exhibit. A).
Section 9.3.110. Plan Submittal and Evidence of Compliance.
   A.   Plan Submittal. Whenever a person is required to obtain a permit for
outdoor lighting or signage, a conditional use permit, subdivision approval or
any development plan approved by the Town, including all Town projects, or a
building permit, the applicant shall, as part of the application process,
submit sufficient information to enable the Town designee to assess whether or
not the plan is in conformance with this lighting ordinance.
   B.   Applications. All applications may be subject to review. All
applications shall include the following:
      1.   A site plan indicating the location of all lighting fixtures, both
proposed and any already existing on the site;
      2.   A description of each illuminating device, fixture, lamp, support
and shield, both proposed and existing. The description shall include, but is
not limited to, manufacturer’s catalog cuts and illustrations (including
sections where required); lamp types, wattages and initial lumen outputs; and
      3.   Such other information that the town staff  or designee may
determine is necessary to ensure compliance with this code.
   C.   Plan Approval. If the town staff determines that any proposed lighting
does not comply with this code, the permit shall not be issued or the plan
approved.
   D.   Lamp or Fixture Substitution. Should any outdoor light fixture or the
type of light source therein be changed after the permit has been issued, a
change request must be submitted to the planning director or designee or
designee for approval, together with adequate information to assure compliance
with this code, which must be received prior to substitution.
   E.   Certification of Installation. For all projects where the total initial
output of the proposed lighting equals or exceeds 100,000 lamp lumens,
certification that the lighting, as installed, conforms to the approved plans
shall be provided by a certified engineer before the certificate of occupancy
is issued. Until this certification is submitted, approval for use of a
certificate of occupancy shall not be issued for the project. (
Exhibit. A)
Section 9.3.120. Approved Materials and Methods of Construction or
Installation/Operation.
   A.   Approval of Alternatives. The provisions of this code are not intended
to prevent the use of any design, material, or method of installation or
operation not specifically prescribed by this code, provided any such
alternative has been approved by the Building Department or designee. The
Building Department or designee may approve any such proposed alternate if it:
      1.   Provides at least approximate equivalence to that applicable
specific requirement of this code; and
      2.   Complies with the intent of this code. (
Exhibit. A).
Section 9.3.130. Violations, Legal Actions and Penalties.
   A.   Violations and Legal Actions. If, after investigation, the planning
director or designee finds that any provision of this chapter is being
violated, the planning director or designee shall give notice by hand delivery
or by certified mail, return receipt requested, of such violation to the owner
and/or occupant of such premises, demanding that the violation be abated within
30 days of the date of hand delivery or of the date of mailing of the notice.
The Planning Department Staff shall be available to assist in working with the
violator to correct said violation. If the violation is not abated within the
30-day period, the planning director or designee may institute actions and
proceedings, either legal or equitable, to enjoin, restrain or abate any
violations of this chapter and to collect penalties for such violations.
   B.   Penalties. A violation of this chapter, or any provision thereof, shall
be punishable by a civil penalty of $75.00 per day and each day of violation
after the expiration of the 30-day period shall constitute a separate offense
for the purpose of calculating the civil penalty. (
Exhibit. A)
Section 9.3.130. Tables and Information Sheets.
   The figures and information sheets attached to the ordinance codified in
this chapter shall be incorporated into this chapter as guidelines for the
public and the Town. The Town does not endorse or discriminate against any
manufacturer or company that may be shown, portrayed or mentioned by the
examples. (
Exhibit. A)
(Exhibit A)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.png]
 
Chapter 5
Growth Management Ordinance.
   Section
9.5.10.    Findings.
   Section
9.5.20.   Applicability of the Development Control System.
   Section
9.5.30.   Administration.
   Section
9.5.40.   Establishment of Annual Building Permit Percentage.
   Section
9.5.50.   Building Permit Application.
   Section
9.5.60.   Building Permit Evaluations.
   Section
9.5.70.   Development Allotment Awards.
Section 9.5.10. Findings.
   The People of the Town of Fairfield find and declare as follows:
   A.   The Town has adopted ordinances and a general plan relating to the
regulation for residential development.
   B.   The Town is experiencing a period of residential development which is
adversely affecting the capacity of the streets to meet traffic demands, the
capacity to provide fire services and water, the capacity of the area school to
absorb children in an orderly way, the historic character of the community, the
quality of life which had characterized this community, and the cost to
households for utilities and municipal services.
   C.   It is the intent of the people of the community to achieve a steady
rate of residential growth each year rather than a fluctuating, overly rapid
rate, in order that the services provided by the Town and area schools, parks,
utilities and service agencies operating in the Town and surrounding region,
can be properly and effectively staged in a manner which will not overextend
existing facilities, and in order to bring existing services up to necessary
standards while minimizing the avoidable cost of short sighted facility
expansion, by means of long term planning.
   D.   It is the intent of the people of the Town to establish control over
quality, distribution, and rate of growth of the Town in the interest of:
      1.   Preserving the character of the community;
      2.   Protecting the open space of the community;
      3.   Protecting the quality of life in the Town;
      4.   Ensuring the adequacy of Town facilities, school facilities,
recreation and park facilities, and services;
      5.   Ensuring the adequacy of fire protection; and
      6.   Ensuring an adequate water supply for current and future residents.
   E.   It is the purpose of this ordinance to augment the policies of the town
as recorded in the general plan and other town ordinances relating to
regulating development.
   F.   In order to facilitate purposes, the town must be able to control the
rate, distribution, quality and economic level of the proposed development.
Control systems for the town codified in this ordinance shall be in effect
after its effective date until amended.
   G.   It is furthermore the intent of the people of the Town that the
awarding of building permit allotments pursuant to this ordinance be
accomplished in accordance with the criteria set forth herein, fairly,
impartially, and without discrimination against any particular parcel of land,
development project, or developer.
   H.   This ordinance shall regulate the time or rate of development based on
existing zoning or other land use approvals applying to a particular parcel of
land or development.
Section 9.5.20. Applicability of the Development Control System.
   The system set out in this ordinance shall apply from the effective date.
This ordinance shall apply to all residential development in the Town of
Fairfield, including single-family residential units on a single existing lot,
but not rehabilitation or remodeling of an existing dwelling.
Section 9.5.30. Administration.
   The Planning Commission shall administer the system set forth in this
ordinance.
Section 9.5.40. Establishment of Annual Building Permit Percentage.
   A.   The number of new residential building permits issued each year in the
Town of Fairfield will be a maximum of ten percent (10%) of the existing
dwellings within the Town.
   B.   The annual allotment shall be continuously applicable to the Town's
jurisdictional boundaries and shall include any additional territory annexed.
   C.   For purposes of the ordinance, a year shall be the calendar year. If
the annual allotment of building permits for a given year is not allotted, it
cannot be carried over to a subsequent year.
Section 9.5.50. Building Permit Application.
   A.   The owner/builder of proposed projects may apply for a building permit
as set forth, and as in other Town ordinances.
   B.   The Building Department shall examine each application for its relation
to or impact upon local public facilities and services, and shall evaluate each
development or lot on the criteria set forth below:
      1.   The capacity of the water system to provide for the needs of the
proposed development must comply with Fairfield Code 6.1.00;
      2.   The capacity of the drainage facilities to adequately dispose of the
surface runoff of the proposed development;
      3.   The ability of the fire department to provide fire protection
according to the established response standards of the town without the
necessity of requiring additional major equipment or housing facilities;
      4.   How the site and architectural design quality may be adversely
affected by modification to topography, grading, cut of fill of natural slopes,
and weather;
      5.   How the proposed buildings and related construction will visually
disturb ridge lines and natural community vistas;
      6.   Absence of deleterious impact on farmland; and
      7.   Absence of deleterious impact on historical or cultural landmarks.
Section 9.5.60. Building Permit Evaluations.
   A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve building permits on a
“first come first serve” basis until all available permits are issued each year
in accordance with Fairfield Code 9.5.00. This assumes that the applicants have
satisfied all of the criteria of this and the other applicable Town ordinances
including, but not limited to, Zoning and Water Ordinances. Incomplete or
erroneous applications will be returned to the applicant and be removed from
consideration until returned totally complete.
   B.   A Building Permit must be obtained (and fees paid) within sixty (60)
days of the plan review approval of the building permit application by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   C.   Building permit applications will only be accepted on or after the
first day of each calendar year for permits allocated in that year.
   D.   A fifteen hundred dollar ($1500) cashier’s check made out to the Town
of Fairfield is required as a deposit at the time of submission of a building
permit application package. If the fifteen hundred ($1500) deposit was paid to
reserve a building permit allotment for that given year, that deposit can be
transferred to the building permit application fee. This total deposit fee will
be deducted from the approved building permit cost at the time all the fees are
paid for the entire cost of the approved building permit. All fees including
Impact fees must be paid in full in order to obtain an approved buildable
permit. If for any reason a building permit cannot be obtained after the
application deposit was made, the deposit fee will not be returned.
   E.   Building Permits are issued in order of applications received with
paid, non refundable application fee.
Section 9.5.70. Development Allotment Awards.
   A.   The number of dwelling units for which development allotments can be
issued shall not exceed the number established in Fairfield Code
9.5.40.
   B.   No single developer shall, in any one (1) year, be issued development
allotments for dwelling units except as submitted as individual requests.
   C.   Should an applicant fail to initiate construction within twelve (12)
months after award of the building permit allotment, the Planning and Zoning
Commission will rescind the allotment.
Chapter 7
Right to Farm.
   Section
9.7.10.   General Provisions.
   Section
9.7.20.   Analysis.
   Section
9.7.30.   Minimum Mitigation.
   Section
9.7.40.   Conflict Minimization.
Section 9.7.10 General Provisions.
Purpose. The Town of Fairfield values its rich agricultural heritage and
considers agricultural uses as a component of the Town’s community fabric,
quality of life amenities, and contributions to the Town’s economic base.
Fairfield Town places great importance on its agricultural areas and the
protection and preservation of agricultural land and agricultural activities
within the Town.
Section 9.7.20 Right to Farm Analysis.
   A.   Analysis Required. The Planning Commission, with the recommendation of
the building official, may impose restrictions on any development in order to
protect:
      1.   An existing agricultural area or activity;
      2.   An agricultural or irrigation right-of-way or easement;
      3.   An agricultural open space or agricultural preservation area;
      4.   A zone that permits agriculture or large animals such as sheep,
horses, or cattle; or
      5.   Any property located within Fairfield Town Boundaries.
Section 9.7.30. Minimum Mitigation.
   A.   Requirements. For any new development that is not located in an
agricultural use area, the following will be required, at a minimum, to
mitigate the effects of new development on the existing or potential
agricultural uses:
      1.   For all sides of the development adjacent to the agricultural
property, there is a minimum fencing requirement of a six (6) foot high non-
climb agricultural fence, defined as a closely woven two (2) inch by four (4)
inch vertical mesh with square deal knot fastening. Fencing must include one
and seven eights (1 ?) inch schedule 40 or equivalent posts with a one and
five-sixteenths (1 5/16) inch schedule 40 or equivalent top rail;
      2.   In order to provide adequate buffering, the Planning Commission and
Town Council may, on a case-by-case basis, require an upgrade to the fencing
and/or appropriate landscaping when the development activities will directly
interfere with the operations of the agricultural use;
      3.   Where there is a difference in the grade of the properties on either
side of the required fence, the height of the fence shall be measured from the
grade of the property upon which the new development is located;
      4.   The fencing requirements of this chapter may be modified if the
developer obtains a written statement from the adjacent property owner
indicating that they are willing to modify or waive the fencing requirements,
as well as approval from the Planning Commission following review by the
reviewing department;
      5.   For any new development that allows large animal rights that is
located adjacent to a development or zone that does not allow large animal
rights, fencing will be the responsibility of each individual lot owner to
ensure that their animals are properly contained;
      6.   Fencing See Section 10.7.220.
      7.   A note shall be placed on the final plat that states: “This area is
subject to the normal, everyday sounds, odors, sights, equipment, facilities,
pests, and any other aspects associated with an agricultural lifestyle. Future
residents shall also recognize the risks inherent with livestock”;
      8.   A written statement shall be provided from the appropriate agency
regarding any irrigation channels, ditches, head gates, and piping, or any
other mitigation required;
      9.   Exterior access shall be provided for all irrigation head gates as
directed by the applicable irrigation company. This may require relocation;
      10.   During construction, access to all irrigation ditches and the
integrity of timely deliverance of irrigation water through all ditches shall
be coordinated with the applicable irrigation company; and
      11.   Adequate berming to retain irrigation tail water shall be provided.
Section 9.7.40. Conflict Minimization.
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   The Planning Commission, and/or Town Council may consider other
actions and site planning options to minimize conflicts between the proposed
new uses, buildings and structures, and the existing or potential agricultural
operations. The goal of the Town is to minimize or eliminate, to the fullest
extent possible, all potential conflicts and to assure a continuation of a
right to farm for the existing agricultural use without undue burden on the
proposed new development;
      2.   The following issues shall be used to identify potential
incompatibilities and actions to minimize conflicts:
         a.   Protection of irrigation access and maintenance of ditches and
canals;
         b.   Safety and protection of the public from ditches, canals, ponds,
and drainage systems;
         c.   Safety and protection of livestock and farm equipment movement
corridors;
         d.   Existing and proposed fencing on all agricultural property
adjacent to the proposed development;
         e.   Erosion and soil protection and conservation concerns;
         f.   Drainage of any development, including subdivisions, will be
designed to minimize the discharge or impact on agricultural lands and soils,
weeds, pests, and household pet controls in subdivision areas;
         g.   Provisions, acknowledgments, and understandings by new property
owners of farm work hours and that farm operations may contribute to
objectionable noises and odors;
         h.   Screening provisions and landscaping to reduce noise, odors,
pests, or visual impacts for adjoining uses; and
         i.   Any other provisions Planning Commission and/or Town Council
consider necessary to protect the right to farm for agricultural uses,
operations, and areas.
Chapter 9
Impact Fees.
   Section
9.9.10.   Purpose.
   Section
9.9.20.   Impact Fees Imposed.
   Section
9.9.30.   Definitions.
   Section
9.9.40.   Service Area.
   Section
9.9.50.   Time of Collection.
   Section
9.9.60.   Offsets Against the Impact.
   Section
9.9.70.   Legal Challenges and Arbitration.
   Section
9.9.80.   Accounting, Expenditure and Refund of Impact Fees.
   Section
9.9.90.   Severability.
9.9.10. Purpose.
   This impact fee policy is promulgated pursuant to the requirements of the
impact fees act, Utah Code Annotated section 11-36a et seq. (the "act"). A
local government may require dedication of property (this requirement is called
an “exaction”) as a condition to approving a development provided that:
   A.   An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
each exaction, and
   B.   Each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to
the impact of the proposed development.
9.9.20. Impact Fees Imposed.
   Impact fees are hereby imposed as a condition of the issuance of a building
permit by the Town for any development activity which creates additional demand
and need for public facilities for the culinary water system; wastewater
collection and treatment system; public safety facilities including police,
fire and rescue; roadway or transportation facilities; storm water drainage and
flood control facilities; and municipal power facilities.
9.9.30. Definitions. 
   As used in this Chapter, terms shall have the same meaning as the
definitions provided in the Utah Impact Fees Act, Utah Code Ann. § 11-36a-102,
et seq., except as otherwise provided herein.
9.9.40. Service Area.
   The entire area of the Town and any areas outside of the Town serviced by
such public facilities are hereby designated and established as one service
area for purposes of the public facilities for which impact fees are being
imposed under the provisions of this ordinance.
9.9.50. Time of Collection.
   Unless otherwise recommended by Town staff and approved by the Town Council,
impact fees shall be payable prior to and as a condition of the issuance of a
building permit by the Town.
9.9.60. Offsets Against the Impact.
   Fees that would otherwise be due for a development activity may be approved
by the Town building department with the approval of the department head
(roads, water parks,etc) and the Mayor in accordance with the following
provisions:
   A.   An offset shall be granted for qualifying improvements that are
required to be made by a developer as a condition of development approval.
   B.   Offsets shall be allowable and payable only to offset impact fees
otherwise due for the same category of improvements. Unless otherwise expressly
agreed to in writing by the Town, offsets shall not result in reimbursement
from the Town or constitute a credit against future fees, and shall not
constitute a liability of the Town for any deficiency in the offset.
   C.   Offsets shall be given only for the value of any construction of
improvements or contribution or dedication of land or money by a developer or
his predecessor in title or interest for qualifying improvements of the same
category for which an impact fee was imposed.
   D.   The value of land dedicated or donated shall be based on:
      1.   The Town Fee Schedule which would be updated yearly to reflect the
value of the improvement.
      2.   Byappraisal. The person applying for an offset shall be responsible
for providing and paying for appraisals of land and improvements, construction
cost figures, and documentation of all contributions and dedications necessary
to the computation of the offset claimed. The director of building shall not
grant offsets to any person who cannot provide such documentation in such form
as the The director of building may reasonably require.
   E.   The value of land dedicated or donated shall be based on the appraised
land value of the parent parcel on the date of transfer of ownership to the
city.
   F.   Offsets provided for qualifying improvements meeting the requirements
of this section shall be valid from the date of approval until ten (10) years
after the date of approval or until the last date of construction of the
project, whichever occurs first.
   G.   The right to claim offsets shall run with the land and may be claimed
only by owners of property within the development area for which the qualifying
improvement was required.
   H.   Any claim for offsets must be made in writing, not later than the time
of submittal of a building permit application or an application for another
permit subsequent to development approval that is subject to impact fees. Any
claim not so made shall be deemed waived
9.9.70. Legal Challenges and Arbitration.
   A.   Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee who believes the fee
does not meet the requirements of law may file a written request for
information with the Town as provided by the Act. Within two weeks of the
receipt of the request for information, the Town shall provide the person or
entity with the written analysis required by the Act and any other relevant
information relating to the impact fee.
   B.   Application. Any person or entity that has paid an impact fee pursuant
to this article may challenge or appeal the impact fee by filing a written
notice of appeal with the city manager within thirty (30) days of the date that
the fee was paid.
   C.   Hearing. Upon receiving the written notice of appeal, the city council
shall set a hearing date to consider the merits of the challenge or appeal. The
person or entity challenging or appealing the fee may appear at the hearing and
present any written or oral evidence deemed relevant to the challenge or
appeal. Representatives of the city may also appear and present evidence to
support the imposition of the fee.
   D.   Decision. The hearing panel, which shall consist of the city council or
such other body as the city shall designate, shall hold a hearing and make a
decision within thirty (30) days after the date the challenge or appeal is
filed. 
9.9.80. Accounting, Expenditures and Refund of impact Fees.
   A.   The impact fees collected pursuant to this enactment shall be deposited
into a separate interest-bearing ledger account and may only be used for
capital improvements to the public facilities for which the fees were
collected. The accounting, expenditure and refund of all such impact fees
collected shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
   B.   Any impact fee offset will be detailed in the building permit.
9.9.90. Severability.
   If an action, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is
declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not
be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect. If any part,
section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase is adjudged unconstitutional
or, invalid, it is declared that the remainder of the code shall not be
affected; the Town Council declares that it would have passed this code and
each part, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and phrase, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more portions may be declared invalid.
TITLE 10.
LAND USE.
Chapter 1.
General Provisions.
   Section
10.1.10.   Title.
   Section
10.1.20.   Intent and Purpose.
   Section
10.1.25.   Penalties.
   Section
10.1.30.   Conflicting Ordinances Repealed.
   Section
10.1.40.   Interpretation Rights of Planning Commission.
   Section
10.1.50.   Conflict with Private Agreements.
   Section
10.1.60.   Burden of Proof.
   Section
10.1.70.   Zoning Map.
   Section
10.1.80.   General Description of Land Use Regulations.
   Section
10.1.90.   Conflicting Provisions.
   Section
10.1.100.   Creation of Vested Rights.
   Section
10.1.110.   Amendments.
   Section
10.1.120.   Certificate of Occupancy Required.
   Section
10.1.130.   Development Shall Not Burden Other Areas.
   Section
10.1.140.   Severability.
Section 10.1.10.  Title.
   Title 10 shall be known and may be cited as the Fairfield Town Land Use Code
and may be identified within this document and other documents as “the
Ordinance”, “Land Use Ordinance”, “the Code” or “Land Use Code”. Any reference
in this code to "Fairfield Town Zoning Code" shall be deemed to be a reference
to the Fairfield Town Land Use Code."
Section 10.1.20. Intent and Purpose.
   A.   This title is designed and enacted to implement the goals and
objectives of the Fairfield General Plan. In keeping with the General Plan, the
following goals and objectives define the major purposes of this title:
      1.   To preserve the quiet rural quality of life enjoyed by the residents
of the Town;
      2.   To promote farming, ranching, tourism and the development of
compatible commercial and home occupations;
      3.   To preserve the natural beauty, open space, dark skies, clean air
and water; to preserve important natural resources; to prevent overcrowding of
the land and to minimize congestion on the streets; and to preserve the history
of the Town.
      4.   To encourage and facilitate the orderly growth and development of
the community;
      5.   To encourage pride in the Town’s appearance and maintenance of our
community;
      6.   To support facilities for education, and provide for recreation and
cultural activities;
      7.   To enable the Town to efficiently provide adequate public services;
      8.   To secure economy in governmental expenditures in the process of
development; and
      9.   To enforce the provisions of this code and to minimize the
exceptions or variances.
   B.   This title is intended to allow development in a manner that encourages
the preservation of scenic values, and the unique setting and history of the
Town.
   C.   This title seeks to prevent development that adversely influences
existing geologic hazards, erosion, flooding or other conditions that create
potential dangers to life and safety in the community or developments that
detract from the rural quality of life in the community.
   D.   Definitions. See
Title 12. Definitions.
Section 10.1.25.  Penalties.
   Whosoever shall violate any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty
of a Class "B" misdemeanor and, upon conviction of such violation, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than six months in the county jail or by both fine
and imprisonment as allowed under Utah State Code 10-3-703.
Section 10.1.30. Conflicting Ordinances Repealed.
   A.   All prior Land Use Ordinances are repealed to the full extent of their
inconsistency with this title.
Section 10.1.35
   A.   Any use not specifically permitted in this Title shall be prohibited:
Section 10.1.40. Interpretation Rights of Planning Commission.
   A.   In interpreting and applying this title, the provisions shall be held
to be the mi nimum requirements needed to promote the public health, safety,
morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the Town.
   B.   Where the provisions of this title impose a greater restriction than is
required by any ordinance, code, regulation, standard or other provisions of
law, or by easement, covenant or private agreement, the provisions of this
title shall govern.
   C.   The Planning Commission shall have the power to interpret the
provisions of this title; provided that the Planning Commission shall consult
with the Town Attorney concerning legal issues.
   D.   The interpretations shall be consistent, with the rules of statutory
construction and with the rules of Section 10.1.90. of this chapter. It shall
also be consistent over time until changed, in writing, by the Town Council.
Such interpretations shall be entitled the weight accorded to administrative
interpretations by the courts. 
Section 10.1.50. Conflict with Private Agreements.
   This title does not nullify easements, covenants, deed restrictions, and
similar private agreements, but where any such private agreement imposes
standards that are less restrictive than those adopted by the Town, this title
shall apply.
Section 10.1.60. Burden of Proof.
   It is the developer/landowner’s responsibility to demonstrate compliance
with this title.
Section 10.1.70. Zoning Map.
   A.   The boundaries of the zoning districts are set forth on a map entitled
“Zoning Map of the Town of Fairfield, Utah” and adopted as part of this
section. This map shall be kept by the Town Recorder and maintained as follows:
      1.   Boundaries; Interpretation. Unless otherwise expressly defined on
the zoning map, zoning boundary lines are lot lines, section lines and Town
limit lines. If uncertainty remains as to the boundary of the zone after
application of the provisions of this subsection, the Planning Commission will
interpret the zone boundary;
      2.   Amendments. All amendments to the zoning map shall be made by
ordinance. The Town shall, within a reasonable time after adoption of any such
amendment, make approved changes to the official zoning map; and
      3.   Whenever amendments or changes are made within zone boundaries, such
amendments or changes shall be made on the official zoning map. Regardless of
the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map, which may from
time to time be made or published, the official zoning map, which shall be
located in the office of the Fairfield Town Recorder and may be available on
the Fairfield Town website, shall be the final authority in determining current
zoning status.
Section 10.1.80. General Description of Land Use Regulations.
   A.   This description is intended to provide the reader with some guidance
using the terms of this title and is not a substitute for the standards,
criteria and procedures contained in this title:
      1.   Zoning Map. Prior to considering the development or redevelopment of
land, an applicant should refer to the official zoning map to determine which
base zoning and overlay zones correspond to the property. The official zoning
map is available from the Town Recorder and may be available on the Town
website;
      2.   Zoning. Once the applicant has identified the zoning, the applicant
should refer to the chapter or section which corresponds to the applicable zone
(s). Definitions are also found in Title 12 of this code. The applicant should
next refer to the site development and design requirements within the zoning
chapter or section to determine if the property is adequate in size to
accommodate the proposed project. The site development and design standards
will determine the building setbacks from the property lines, minimum lot area
(if any), minimum open space, build-to lines, maximum height, density and
parking requirements for buildings and uses on the property, etc.;
      3.   Overlay Zones. Some areas are in an Overlay Zone, as well as in a
base zoning. Once the Overlay Zone has been identified, the applicant should
refer to both the base zoning chapter and the overlay zone chapter that
corresponds to the overlay zone;
      4.   Use Standards. The applicant should then refer to the use list for
the zone. The applicant should first determine if the desired use is allowed in
the zone. If the use is allowed as a conditional use, the applicant must apply
for and obtain a conditional use permit. Finally, if the use is an existing
legal use that is no longer allowed in the zone, and there is a proposal to
change or modify a structure associated with the use, the applicant must apply
for and obtain a variance from the Appeal Authority;
      5.   Variances/Rezones. If the applicant cannot meet the standards
described in this, Title 10, the applicant should determine whether there are
alternative development options or any exceptions to the general rules that may
accommodate the project. If the project does not meet standards and other
development alternatives are not possible, then there are two (2) methods
available to attempt to vary the standards;
         a.   Variance. The variance process is generally used for existing
development, or development of an existing, validly created lot. The Appeal
Authority shall issue a variance upon the applicant’s demonstration that the
application meets each variance standard detailed in Section
10.7.260 of thisTitle; and
         b.   Rezone. A petition for rezone is a request to change the
development standards for the property in question. The process for requesting
a rezone is detailed in Section
10.11.60 of this Title. Rezones are discretionary legislative acts.
      6.   Subdivision of Land. If the applicant would like to subdivide a
piece of property, merge a number of different parcels into one parcel, or
resubdivide, the applicant shall go through the subdivision process as provided
in Chapter 15 of this Title;
      7.   Meanings and Intent. All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this title shall be construed according to Section
10.1.40. of this Chapter;
      8.   Headings, Illustrations and Text. In case of any difference of
meaning or implication between the text of this title and any heading, drawing,
table, figure or illustration, the text shall control;
      9.   Lists and Examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists
of items or examples that use terms such as “including”, “such as”, or similar
language are intended to provide examples, not to be an exhaustive lists of all
possibilities;
      10.   Computation Of Time. References to days are calendar days. Exclude
the first day and include the last day. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday
or holiday observed by the Town, that day shall be excluded;
      11.   References to Other Regulations, Publications and Documents.
Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or
document, it shall be construed as a reference to the most recent edition of
such regulation (as amended), resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or
document, unless otherwise specifically stated;
      12.   Technical and Nontechnical Terms. Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning;
      13.   Public Officials and Agencies. All public officials, bodies and
agencies to which references are made are those of Fairfield Town unless
otherwise indicated;
      14.   Mandatory and Discretionary Terms. The words “shall”, “will”, and
“must” are always mandatory. The words “may” and “should” are advisory and
discretionary terms;
      15.   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows;
         a.   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions,
or events apply; and
         b.   “Or” indicates that one or more of the connected items,
conditions, provisions or events may apply;
      16.   Tenses and Plurals. Words used in one tense (past, present or
future) include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary. The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
Section 10.1.90. Conflicting Provisions.
   A.   This title is written to harmonize with Federal, State and Town laws.
To the extent a provision of this title conflicts with a Federal, State or
local law or private contract, the following rules apply:
      1.   Conflict With State or Federal Regulations. If the provisions of
this title are inconsistent with those of the State or Federal government, the
more restrictive provision will control, to the extent permitted by law;
      2.   Conflict With Other Town Regulations. If the provisions of this
title are inconsistent with one another or if they conflict with provisions
found in other adopted ordinances, resolutions or regulations of the Town, the
more restrictive provision will apply; and
      3.   Conflict With Private Agreements. It is not the intent of this title
to interfere with, abrogate or annul any easement, covenant, deed restriction
or other agreement between private parties. If the provisions of this title
impose a greater restriction than imposed by a private agreement, the
provisions of this title will apply. If the provisions of a private agreement
impose a greater restriction than this title, the provisions of the private
agreement will control. The Town shall not be responsible for monitoring or
enforcing private agreements.
Section 10.1.100. Creation of Vested Rights.
   A.   The Town may alter certain private property rights by amending this
title from time to time.
   B.   How Rights Vest. Certain private property rights shall become fixed at
law, and may not be altered for a period of time, upon an applicant:
      1.   Application. Submission of a complete application to develop
property that is consistent with this title; and
      2.   Fees. Payment of all applicable permit fees.
   C.   What Rights Vest.  The applicant’s rights vest under this title in
those rights for which the applicant has applied. For example, if the applicant
has applied for a subdivision, and has “vested rights” pursuant to the
applicant’s rights vest under the Subdivision Ordinance, and the applicant is
entitled to the benefit of the Subdivision Code in effect at the time of
vesting. An applicant’s vested rights under the Subdivision Ordinance, however,
do not vest the applicant under an adopted Building, Fire or Plumbing Code, if
the applicant has not submitted a complete application, nor paid applicable
fees. Applications shall not vest if:
      1.   Pending Revisions. Revisions to this title are pending at the time
of application which would prohibit or further condition the approval sought;
or
      2.   Health and Safety. There exists a compelling and countervailing
health, safety, or welfare reason.
   D.   Preservation of Vested Rights/Compliance with Conditions of Approval.
An applicant with vested rights must comply with and maintain all conditions of
final approval to preserve the vested rights. An applicant’s failure to meet or
maintain conditions of approval constitutes the applicant’s knowing and willful
waiver of the applicant’s vested rights.
   E.   Applicability of Ordinances that are General In Nature. The
establishment of a vested right shall not preclude the application of Town
ordinances or regulations that are general in nature, applicable to all
property subject to land use regulation, and necessary to preserve the health,
safety or welfare of the community.
Section 10.1.110. Amendments.
   A.   Authorized; Submit to Planning Commission. The Town Council may amend
the number, shape, boundaries, or area of any zone, or any regulation of or
within any zone or zones or any other provisions of this title. A legislative
body may not make any amendment authorized by this section unless the
legislative body first submits the amendment to the planning commission for the
planning commission's recommendation.
   B.   Appeal of Denial. Zoning amendment applications denied by the Planning
Commission may be appealed to the appeals authority. Any such appeals must be
made within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the Planning Commission's
decision. The appeals authority shall then make the final decision.
   C.   Denial to Reclassify. Denial of an application to amend the zoning map
to reclassify any parcel or property shall prohibit the filing of another
application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property,
or any portion thereof, to the same zone classification within one year from
the date of the final denial of the previous application, unless the Planning
Commission finds that there has been a substantial change in the circumstances
or sufficient new evidence since the denial of the previous application to
merit consideration of a second application within the one year time period.
Section 10.1.120. Certificate of Occupancy Required.
   A.   Determination by the Building Department. No building shall be occupied
or used until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Fairfield Town
Building Department. Prior to issuing a certificate of occupancy, the building
inspector shall determine:
      1.   That all construction has been completed, as authorized by a valid
building permit;
      2.   The establishment of the use is authorized as provided by valid
approvals; and
      3.   The building and use comply with all approvals, permits, and
licenses, as required by this title, and all other applicable requirements.
   B.   Unlawful Without Certificate. It is unlawful to use or occupy, or to
permit the use or occupancy of, any building or structure unless a certificate
of occupancy has been issued for such building or structure, as required by
this section. It is unlawful to use or occupy, or to permit the use or
occupancy of, any building or structure with a use or occupancy different from
that provided by the certificate of occupancy. Failure to obtain a certificate
of occupancy shall be a violation of this title.
   C.   Public Nuisance Declared. The use or occupancy of any building,
structure or premises for which a certificate of occupancy has not been issued
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be cited and abated as such.
It shall also be a public nuisance for any building, structure or premises to
be used or occupied in a manner different than authorized by a certificate of
occupancy.
Section 10.1.130. Development Shall Not Burden Other Areas.
   A.   Any development proposed within the Town boundaries shall assume all
costs related to such development. Development, in this sense, includes
individuals as well as a developer.
   B.   Development Requirements shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Supplying adequate water rights for the development;
      2.   Providing means to irrigate the entire acreage where applicable;
      3.   Installing all required utilities;
      4.   Bringing roads up to the Fairfield Town Road Standards;
      5.   Road connectivity.
      6.   Providing open space to the extent it is required by the governing
body;
      7.   Protecting vistas that are important to the citizens of the Town;
and
      8.   Controlling drainage water created by the development on the
developed property.
Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 10.1.140. Severability.
   This code and the various parts, sections, and titles and chapters are
hereby declared to be severable, except the provisions relating to large scale
developments; otherwise, if any part, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or
phrase is adjudged unconstitutional or, invalid, it is declared that the
remainder of the code shall not be affected; the Town Council declares that it
would have passed this code and each part, section, paragraph, sentence,
clause, and phrase, irrespective of the fact that any one or more portions may
be declared invalid.
Chapter 10.3.00.
Reserved.
Chapter 5.
Land Use Authorities and Other Officers. 
   Section
10.5.10.   Land Use Authorities Provided.
   Section
10.5.20.   Fairfield Town Council.
   Section
10.5.30.   Fairfield Town Planning Commission.
   Section
10.5.35   Airport Zoning Commission.
   Section
10.5.40.   Building Department.
   Section
10.5.50.   Fairfield Town Development Review Committee.
   Section
10.5.60.   Support From Town Officers and Staff.
   Section
10.5.70.   Public Meetings and Public Hearings.
   Section
10.5.80.   Provision of Administrative Guidelines.
   Section
10.5.90.   Computation of Time.
   Section
10.5.100.   Fractional Numbers.
   Section
10.5.110.   Procedural Irregularities.
   Section
10.5.120.   Determination of Completeness of Land Use Applications.
   Section
10.5.130.   Continuing Validity of Land Use Application Approvals.
   Section
10.5.140.   Land Use Authority Compliance with Land Use Ordinances/Code.
   Section
10.5.150.   Land Use Approvals Required to Comply with Land Use Ordinances/
Code.
   Section
10.5.160.   Acquiring Property.
   Section
10.5.170.   Appeal Authorities and Procedures.
Section 10.5.10. Land Use Authorities Provided.
   The Land Use Authorities identified by this Code shall have responsibilities
for administering and implementing the Fairfield General Plan and all Fairfield
Town Land Use Code, including this ordinance, as allowed by Utah State Code 10-
9a LUDMA, and as provided herein.
Section 10.5.20. Fairfield Town Council. 
   A.   Powers and Duties. For purposes of this Title, the Fairfield Town
Council (also known as the “Council”) shall:
      1.   Adopt amendments to the General Plan, and all elements of the
General Plan;
      2.   Adopt amendments to Title 10: Land Use Code, including this
ordinance;
      3.   Direct the Commission to prepare the General Plan, any proposed plan
element, any amendments, and to submit the proposed plan, element, or
amendments to the Town Council;
      4.   Direct the Commission to prepare all land use ordinances, including
this ordinance, zoning maps, official maps, and any amendments, and to submit
such land use ordinances, or amendments to the Town Council;
      5.   May act as an appeals authority;
      6.   Render or appoint a designee to render a determination when an
applicant asserts a taking of property without just compensation or has
asserted some other constitutional invalidity;
      7.   Establish a fee schedule by resolution for all approvals, permits,
and licenses required by the Town’s Land Use Ordinances; and
      8.   Take such other action(s) as authorized by Utah State Code 10-9a et
al, or required by this code, and not expressly delegated to any other Land Use
Authority.
   B.   Effective Date of Decisions. All decisions of the Council, made under
the authority of this ordinance, shall take effect on the date of the meeting
when the decision is made unless a different date is designated in the rules of
the Council, or a different date is designated by the Council at the time the
decision is made.
Section 10.5.30. Fairfield Town Planning Commission.
   The Fairfield Planning Commission (hereinafter “Commission”) was created and
established pursuant to Utah State Code 10-9a, or prior enactments of LUDMA.
   A.   Terms of Members:
      1.   The Commission shall consist of five (5) volunteer members, to be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council;
      2.   The terms of the Planning Commission shall be staggered. Each member
of the Planning Commission shall serve for a term of five (5) years and until a
successor is appointed; not to exceed thirty (30) days past the five (5) year
term;
      3.   The term of the Commissioners shall be such that the term of one
member shall expire each year. In the case of a death, resignation, etc., that
the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, shall appoint a
person to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term. Terms of
members of the Planning Commission shall begin on or before the first
Commission meeting in July of each year. The Town Council may remove any member
of the Planning Commission as decided upon by majority vote. Vacancies shall be
promptly filled in the same manner as the original appointment for the
remainder of the unexpired term;
      4.   A Commission member may be re-appointed to additional terms by the
Mayor with advice and consent of the Town Council; and
      5.   Commission members shall be residents of Fairfield Town for at least
1 year and shall not be an elected official. If a member of the Planning
Commission ceases to be a resident of the Town, the office must be vacated.
   B.   Organization of the Commission.
      1.   A Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be elected by a majority of
the Commissioners annually in the month of July and at other times as required.
A quorum must be present to elect the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. If a
quorum is lacking, the Commission will hold an election at the next regularly
scheduled meeting at which a quorum is available;
      2.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the Planning Commission shall
constitute a quorum;
      3.   The Chair and Vice-Chair shall serve terms of one (1) year. No
member should serve three (3) consecutive years unless, in the event that the
four (4) remaining members are unable to serve as Chair, the incumbent Chair
may serve another term by the unanimous vote of four (4) members of the
Planning Commission.
      4.   The Commission will vote annually for the Chair and Vice-Chair by
ballot;
      5.   In the absence of the Chair, the Vice-Chair shall have all the power
of the Chair;
      6.   The Chairperson shall preside at all Commission meetings and have
the powers generally assigned to such office in conducting the meetings;
      7.   The Chairperson or designee shall update the Town Council at least
once every quarter or as often as the Mayor deems necessary;
      8.   It shall be the Chairperson's duty to see that the transaction of
Commission business is in accordance with these by-laws;
      9.   The Planning Commission, by a majority vote of the Commission, may
create special committees and assign one or more members to such committees;
and
      10.   The Mayor of Fairfield shall assign a person to act as the
recording secretary to serve the Commission. The secretary or designee shall
keep the minutes of all proceedings of the Commission, which minutes shall be
the official record of all proceedings before the Commission, as approved by a
majority vote of the members of the Commission in attendance at a meeting where
a Quorum has been established. The secretary or designee shall be compensated
as approved by the Town Council. The minutes of all meetings of the Commission
shall be filed in the office of the Town Recorder. All such records shall be
available for public review and access in accordance with GRAMA.
   C.   Selection of Members.
      1.   Notice Of Vacancy. Notice of all Planning Commission vacancies shall
be posted in two (2) public places and sent by email to all residents who
provide the Town with their email address. In addition, postcards or other
appropriate ways of notification may be used to ensure that all residents of
Fairfield Town are duly notified of the vacancy. Said notice shall be
advertised for not less than fourteen (14) days and shall include at least the
following:
         a.   The purpose of the notice;
         b.   The general purpose, duties, and responsibilities of the Planning
Commission;
         c.   Directions for interested applicants to submit a letter of
interest to the Town Recorder; and
         d.   The deadline for accepting applications.
      2.   Town Council may review all applications;
      3.   Planning Commissioners shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
approval of the Town Council;
      4.   Planning Commissioners may reapply for Commission vacancies;
      5.   Vacancies occurring other than through the expiration of terms shall
be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term;
      6.   Failure to attend three consecutive regular meetings, or missing
thirty percent (30%) of regular meetings in a calendar year, shall be construed
by the Chair as grounds for dismissal from the Commission. The Chair would then
recommend removal of the Commissioner to the Town Council; and
      7.   Members proposing to resign shall give reasonable notice of such
intent to the Town Council and Planning Commission, and make the date of
resignation effective in such a manner as to allow time for appointment of
replacements.
   D.   Powers and Duties. The Planning Commission shall be an advisory body to
the Council on legislative matters pertaining to the Town’s General Plan and
Land Use Ordinances. The Commission shall:
      1.   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, the General Plan, any proposed
plan element, any amendments to, and to submit the proposed plan, element, or
amendments to the Council;
      2.   Prepare or cause to be prepared all Land Use Code, including this
ordinance, Title, zoning maps, official maps, and any amendments thereto, and
to submit such Land Use Ordinances, or amendments thereto to the Council;
      3.   Review and recommend approval or denial of all applications for a
General Plan amendment and Land Use Code amendment to the Council;
      4.   Review and render a decision of approval, approval with conditions
or denial regarding conditional use applications;
      5.   Review and recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial
of all subdivision applications to the Council, as authorized by the Fairfield
Subdivision Ordinance;
      6.   Inthe event of the need to determine the boundary of a zone, the
Commission shall have the authority and jurisdiction to render a written
interpretation of the boundary of a zone;
      7.   May act as an Appeals Authority, as provided by section 10.5.170 of
this Chapter;
      8.   Adopt bylaws, policies, and procedures for the conduct of the duties
and meetings of the Planning Commission, for the consideration of applications
and for any other purposes deemed necessary by the Commission, provided that
such bylaws, policies, and procedures are approved by the Town Council before
taking effect;
      9.   Advise the Fairfield Town Council on code amendments;
      10.   Advise the Council on other matters as the Council may direct; and
      11.   Approve site plans.
Rev. ord. 06132023-01, passed 6-13-2023.
10.5.35. Airport Zoning Commission. 
   A.   Commission Established.
      1.   The Fairfield Town Planning Commission is designated as the "Airport
Zoning
   Commission" as prescribed in Utah code §~72-10-405.
      2.   In this Title and State law, any references to the "Airport Zoning
Commission"
shall mean the Fairfield Town Planning Commission.
      3.   If the Planning Commission is empowered in this title to take
actions that are duties of the Airport Zoning Commission as prescribed in Utah
law, the Planning Commission shall be presumed to be functioning as the Airport
Zoning Commission.
      4.   Duties. The Airport Zoning Commission shall recommend boundaries of
the various zones to be established and the regulations to be adopted
pertaining to any airport hazard area and to perform such other duties as may
be assigned to it by the Town Council or Utah law.
   B.   Airport Land Use Appeal Board. Established.
      1.   The Fairfield Town Land Use Appeal Board is designated as the
"Airport Board of Adjustment" as prescribed in Utah Code § 72-10-405.
      2.   In this title and State law, any references to the "Airport Board of
Adjustment" shall mean the Fairfield Town Land Use Appeal Board.
      3.   If the Land Use Appeal Board is empowered in this title to take
actions that are duties of the Airport Board of Adjustment as prescribed in
Utah law, the Land Use Appeal Board shall be presumed to be functioning as the
Airport Board of Adjustment.
      4.   Duties. The Airpark Appeals Authority shall hear issues pertaining
to any airport hazard area and to perform such other duties as may be assigned
to it by the Town Council or Utah law.
Section 10.5.40. Building Department.
   The Fairfield Building Department will carry out the administrative
responsibilities of the Town’s Land Use Title. The Fairfield Building
Department may be referred to as the “Building Department.”
   A.   Powers and Duties. The Building Department shall:
      1.   After the receipt of a Business License or Land Use Application, the
Building Department shall determine if the application is complete. If the
Building Department determines the application complete, the application review
procedures may be commenced. If the Building Department determines that the
application is incomplete, the Building Department shall notify the applicant
in writing, identifying the application deficiencies, and advising the
applicant that no action will be taken by the Land Use Authority, as
applicable, until all application deficiencies have been corrected;
      2.   Carry out all other functions, duties, tasks, and actions, as
identified ;
      3.   Approve Building Permits; and
      4.   Forward approved building permits to the proper authority.
Section 10.5.50. Fairfield Town Development Review Committee.
   A.   Establishment. A Development Review Committee (hereinafter identified
as the “DRC”) may be established and created by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Council.
   B.   Purpose. The purpose of the DRC is to assure that any proposed use,
activity, building or structure is consistent with the General Plan and
complies with all requirements of the Town’s Land Use Ordinances, including
this ordinance, and all other applicable ordinances and requirements.
   C.   Membership. The DRC shall consist of persons representing Town
departments, and other persons, as may be designated by the Mayor and Town
Council, responsible for reviewing and coordinating applications for any land
use application approval, permit, or license.
   D.   Powers and Duties. The DRC shall act under the direction of the Mayor
and shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      1.   Before a Land Use Authority considers any permitted use or
conditional use application, the DRC shall review the application to determine
compliance of the application with the General Plan and all applicable
ordinances;
      2.   The DRC shall provide a report to the Land Use Authority identifying
compliance of any permitted use or conditional use  application with the
General Plan and all applicable ordinances prior to review and decision by a
Land Use Authority;
      3.   The DRC may provide a report to the building department for any
temporary use or permitted use application identifying compliance with the
General Plan and all applicable ordinances prior to review and decision by the
building department; and
      4.   The DRC may present findings for consideration by the Land Use
Authority in the review and decision of any application for any approval,
permit, or license.
   E.   Conduct of Meetings. The DRC shall establish procedures for the conduct
of DRC meetings, the scheduling of meetings, field trips, and any other DRC
matters, such procedures being reviewed and approved by the Mayor before taking
effect.
   F.   The DRC shall not act as a Land Use Authority or a decision-making
body.
   G.   Anytime that three (3) members of the Town Council or the Planning
Commission sit on the DRC Board, the open public meeting act will be adhered
to.
Section 10.5.60. Support from Town Officers and Staff.
   The officers and staff of the Town shall provide support and assistance to
the Town’s Land Use Authorities, as may be required from time to time.
Section 10.5.70. Public Meetings and Public Hearings.
   All meetings and hearings of all Land Use Authorities, identified herein,
shall comply with the provisions of this ordinance, and all other applicable
ordinances for such meetings and hearings, and the requirements of LUDMA and
the Utah Code Annotated, as amended, for open and public meetings.
Section 10.5.80. Provision of Administrative Guidelines.
   The Council may provide guidelines, standards, reference materials, forms,
or other documents to assist the Land Use Authorities and building department
in the administration, implementation, and interpretation of this ordinance,
and all other Land Use Ordinances.
Section 10.5.90. Computation of Time.
   All times, identified herein, shall be computed using calendar days, except
that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, that day shall
be excluded and time computed to the next regular business day following the
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. The time within which an act is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day.
Section 10.5.100. Fractional Numbers.
   Indetermining compliance with the numerical requirements of this code, any
computation or measurement resulting in a fractional number, except density
calculations, shall be rounded to the nearest whole number. Density
calculations shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Section 10.5.110. Procedural Irregularities.
   A.   Validity of Action. Notwithstanding any provision of this Code which
sets forth a procedure for any matter; no decision, action, inaction or
recommendation regarding the matter which is the subject of the procedure shall
be void or invalid or set aside by a court due to any error (including, but not
limited to, any irregularity, informality, neglect or omission) which pertains
to an application, notice, decision, finding, record, hearing, report,
recommendation or any other procedural matter whatsoever unless:
      1.   The procedure is required by State or Federal law; and
      2.   In an examination of the entire circumstances, including the
evidence on record, it is determined that the procedural error complained of
was prejudicial to a substantial right of the complainant as shown by the
following:
         a.   Had the error not occurred, the decision made pursuant to the
procedure would have been different; and
         b.   Because of the error, the complainant suffered an injury for
which relief must be given.
   B.   Presumption of Validity. It shall be presumed that a decision or action
taken pursuant to a procedure was done in good faith and it shall not be
presumed that an error is prejudicial, or that an injury occurred. The
complainant shall have the burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence
to show that an error is prejudicial or that an injury occurred.
Section 10.5.120. Determination of Completeness of Land Use Applications.
   A.   Land Use Application is considered submitted and complete on the date
the building department determines the application complete and determines that
the application complies with the requirements of the applicable Land Use
Ordinances and all applicable fees have been paid.
Section 10.5.130. Continuing Validity of Land Use Application Approvals.
   A.   The validity of an approval of a Land Use Application shall terminate
six (6) months from the date of the approval by the Land Use Authority, unless
an alternate date is specifically provided by the applicable Land Use
Ordinance, or the applicant has proceeded within six (6) months from the date
of approval with reasonable diligence to implement the approval.
   B.   An approval by a Land Use Authority shall be invalid and null and void
if a use is conducted, or a building or structure is established in violation
of any requirements of all Land Use Ordinances or of the requirements or
conditions of approval.
Section 10.5.140. Land Use Authority Compliance with Land Use Ordinances/Code.
   Each Land Use Authority of the Town, as identified herein, shall comply with
the terms and standards of all applicable Land Use Ordinances, including this
ordinance, and shall comply with the mandatory provisions of such Land Use
Ordinances/Code.
Section 10.5.150. Land Use Approvals Required to Comply with Land Use
Ordinances/Code.
   The approval of any Land Use Application shall continue to comply with all
requirements, conditions, terms and standards of approval, as required by the
Land Use Authority, and shall continue to comply with the requirements of all
Land Use Ordinances/Code. Failure to comply shall render the approval void.
Section 10.5.160. Acquiring Property.
   A.   The Town may acquire property through purchase, gift, voluntary
dedication, or eminent domain in conjunction with state and federal
requirements. See FF Code 1.5 and Ut. St. Code 78B.6.5.
   B.   The Town may require the dedication and improvement of a street or
other facility if the street or other facility is found necessary by the Town
because of a proposed development.
Section 10.5.170. Appeal Authorities and Procedures.
   Responsibility of the Appeals Authority. An Appeals Authority is a quasi-
judicial body that works within the strict rules of the law as it is written.
It is a very narrow area of land use law. The Appeal Authority does not have
the power to rewrite or create new law. Even if it believes the law under
consideration is silly, unwise, inappropriate, or unclear, the first
responsibility is to determine whether the matter before it is consistent with
the law.  An Appeal Authority must both know the law and possess the courage to
follow it. When the Town Council acts as the appeals authority it must and
shall apply the law as written in the ordinance/code.
   A.   Legal Authority. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-701, the
Town is required to establish one (1) or more appeal authorities to hear and
decide requests for variances from the terms of the land use ordinances of the
Town, appeals from decisions applying the land use ordinances of the Town, and
appeals from a fee charged in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-
9a-510. The timely and specific appeal to the Appeal Authority described in
this section, and the exhaustion of administrative remedies, shall be
conditions precedent to judicial review of any decision. A decision of an
Appeal Authority may be appealed to a District Court within 30 days of the
entry of the final decision of the Appeal Authority.
   B.   Creation of Appeal Authorities. The Town establishes the following
Appeal Authorities:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall be the Appeal Authority to hear
appeals from decisions of the building department where the building department
has final decision making authority regarding a land use permit, a land use
application, or the enforcement of a land use regulation, land use permit, or
development agreement. A decision by the Planning Commission as Appeal
Authority from decisions of the building department shall be the final decision
of the Town on the issue.
      2.   The Town Council shall be the Appeal Authority (by majority vote of
the Town Council) to hear appeals from decisions of the Planning Commission
where the Planning Commission has final decision making authority regarding a
land use permit, a land use application, the enforcement of a land use
regulation, or development agreement, or the imposition of a fee charged in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-510. The Town Council may not
hear appeals from decisions of the Planning Commission when the Planning
Commission is acting as an Appeal Authority from decisions of the building
department. A decision by the Appeal Authority from decisions of the Planning
Commission shall be the final decision of the Town on the issue.
      3.   A Land Use Hearing Officer (the “Hearing Officer”) appointed by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, shall be the Appeal
Authority from decisions of the Town Council where the Town Council has final
decision making authority regarding requests for variances, a land use permit,
a land use application, the enforcement of a land use regulation, or
development agreement, or the imposition of a fee charged in accordance with
Utah Code
   Annotated section 10-9a-510. The Town may appoint one (1) or more Hearing
Officers to ensure availability as required for the efficient disposition of
appeals.
         a   Appointment. The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the advice and consent of the Town Council, within 30 days from the date
the appeal petition is filed.
         b.   Qualifications. The Hearing Officer shall be or have been a
professional in law, land use, or public administration, and shall have the
knowledge, training and experience necessary to effectively conduct
administrative hearings regarding variances and appeals of land use decisions,
including knowledge and familiarity with the requirements of constitutional due
process.
         c.   Prohibited Appointments. The Hearing Officer shall not be a
member of the Town Council, Planning Commission, Town staff or any other
elected or appointed official of the Town.
         d.   Term. The Hearing Officer shall be appointed for a specific
appeal by the Town. Each new case may require a new appointment. The Hearing
Officer serves at the pleasure of the Town Council and may be dismissed by the
majority vote of the Town Council with or without cause.
         e.   The Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall act in a quasi-
judicial matter, consistent with the requirements of this article.
         f.   Land Use Authority Appeals. With the advice and consent of the
Town Council, the Hearing Officer may be authorized to hear and decide appeals
from any final order, requirement, determination or decision of any Land Use
Authority of the Town related to the application of this title. If the Town
Council appoints a Hearing Officer to be the Appeal Authority for decisions of
the building department or Planning Commission, that appointment will suspend
provisions of this Title inconsistent with such appointment.
         g.   Prohibited Appeals. The Hearing Officer may not hear or decide an
appeal of any legislative act of the Town Council, including, without
limitation, zoning ordinance or map amendments. Except as expressly provided in
this title on variances, the Hearing Officer may not waive or modify the terms
or requirements of this title.
   C.   Hearings, Rules and Decisions. Hearings before an Appeal Authority are
convened on a case by case basis. Upon the filing of an appeal, the Town Clerk
shall forthwith transmit to the Appeal Authority all the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      1.   Adoption Of Rules. The Appeal Authority may adopt rules for the
regulation of hearings. Such rules shall be consistent with State law and with
the provisions of this Code, and shall be approved by the Town Council.
      2.   Oaths, Witnesses. The Appeal Authority may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses.
      3.   Open, Public Meetings. All meetings of an Appeal Authority shall
comply with the requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah
Code Annotated section 52-4-101 et seq.
      4.   Effective Date Of Decisions. Decisions of an Appeal Authority become
effective on the date the Appeal Authority issues a written decision, unless a
different time is designated in such written decision.
      5.   Notice Of Decision. Any decision of an Appeal Authority shall be
delivered to all parties to the proceeding, and may be posted as required for
public notice.
   D.   The maximum time allowed to file an appeal shall be as follows:
      1.   Any person, including, but not limited to, the applicant on any Land
Use application, approval, license, or permit; a neighboring or adjoining
property owner; and any board or officer of the Town, aggrieved by a decision
of a Land Use Authority's decision administering or interpreting the Town’s
Land Use Ordinances may, within fifteen (15) days of the decision, file with
the Recorder written intention to appeal the decision to the applicable Appeal
Authority. All briefing and documentation that will be relied upon by the
appellant for the appeal shall be submitted to the applicable Appeal Authority
within thirty (30) days of when the written notice of intention to appeal is
filed or within 30 days after the appointment of a Hearing Officer, whichever
is later.
      2.   Any person who appeared before the Appeal Authority regarding an
appeal of a Land Use Authority decision and who is aggrieved by a decision of
an Appeal Authority, may file an Appeal Petition for the review of the Appeal
Authority’s decision with the District Court within thirty (30) days after the
Appeal Authority’s decision is final, as provided by this section;
   E.   Requirements for an Appeal Petition:
      1.   An Appeal Petition of a Land Use Authority’s decision shall clearly
identify the alleged error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Land Use Authority in the administration or
interpretation of the Town’s Land Use Ordinances/Code; and
      2.   Only those decisions in which a Land Use Authority has applied the
requirements of the Town’s Land Use Ordinance/Codes to a particular
application, person, lot, or parcel may be appealed to an Appeal Authority.
   F.   Condition Precedent to Judicial Review, Appeal Authority Duties.
   As a condition precedent to judicial review, each adversely affected person
shall timely and specifically appeal a Land Use Authority's decision to the
applicable Appeal Authority in accordance with the requirements of this
Chapter. An Appeal Authority shall:
      1.   Act in a quasi-judicial manner;
      2.   Serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the interpretation or
application of the Town’s Land Use Ordinances/Code;
      3.   Not entertain an appeal of a matter in which the Appeal Authority,
or any participating member, had first acted as the Land Use Authority;
      4.   Require an adversely affected party to present every theory of
relief that it can raise in District Court; and
      5.   Not require an adversely affected party to pursue duplicate or
successive appeals before it, or another Appeal Authority as a condition of the
adversely affected party's duty to exhaust administrative remedies.
   G.   Application Required.
      1.   An appeal of a Land Use Authority’s decision shall be made on the
Land Use Appeal Application provided by the Town; and
      2.   If the applicant fails to correct any and all Land Use Application
deficiencies within thirty (30)  days from the date of written notification by
the Town, the application shall be deemed withdrawn and shall be returned to
the applicant by the Town staff. Any application fees paid shall also be
returned to the applicant.
   H.   Meetings, Records, and Action of an Appeal Authority.
      1.   Each Appeal Authority identified in this chapter shall:
         a.   Provide each of its members with the same information and access
to Town resources as any other member;
         b.   Convene only if a quorum of its members is present, which in no
event shall be less than three (3) members of the Planning Commission or Town
Council; and
         c.   Act only upon the vote of a majority of its convened members.
      2.   After an appeal petition is determined to be complete by the Town,
as provided herein, the Town shall coordinate with the Appeal Authority to
schedule the hearing of the appeal. The Town shall transmit to the Appeal
Authority all materials constituting the full and complete record of the
decision of the Land Use Authority;
      3.   Following a written decision by the Appeal Authority, the Appeal
Authority shall provide the applicant with a copy of the written decision; and
      4.   A record of the decision of the Appeal Authority shall be maintained
in the office of the Town Recorder, which shall constitute the official record
of the appeal hearing and decision.
   I.   Due process.
      1.   The Appeal Authority shall conduct each appeal hearing as provided
in this chapter; and
      2.   Shall respect the due process rights of each of the participants.
   J.   Burden of Proof. Any person bringing an appeal and alleging an error of
a Land Use Authority’s decision administering or interpreting the Town’s Land
Use Ordinances has the burden of proving that the Land Use Authority erred.
   K.   Standard of Review for Appeal:
      1.   The Appeal Authority shall hear and review all appeals only “on the
Record” as presented to the Land Use Authority, including the review of all
factual matters;
      2.   The Appeal Authority shall only consider the materials presented
originally before the Land Use Authority in making the decision that is the
subject of the appeal;
      3.   The Appeal Authority shall determine the correctness of a decision
of the Land Use Authority in its interpretation application of the Land Use
Ordinances;
      4.   Only those decisions in which a Land Use Authority has applied the
requirements of the Town’s Land Use Ordinances to a particular application,
person, lot, or parcel may be appealed to an Appeal Authority;
      5.   An appeal application shall not be used to waive, modify, or amend
any requirement, provision, or term of the Land Use Ordinances;
      6.   A decision of the Appeal Authority shall take effect on the date
when the Appeal Authority issues a written decision, unless a different
effective date is given in the written decision;
      7.   No person may challenge in District Court a decision of a Land Use
Authority until that person has exhausted all administrative remedies as
provided by this chapter and received a final decision from the applicable
Appeal Authority, as provided by this section;
      8.   Any person adversely affected by a final decision of an Appeal
Authority made in the exercise of, or in violation of, the provisions of this
Chapter may file an Appeal Petition for review of the decision with the
District Court within thirty (30) days after the Appeal Authority’s decision is
final; and
      9.   An appeal petition in District Court is barred unless it is filed
within thirty (30) days after the Appeal Authority's decision is final.
   L.   Tolling of Time. If any private property owner files a request for
mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue with the Utah
property rights ombudsman, as provided by §13-43-204 Utah Code Annotated, 1953,
as amended, before the time required to file for District Court review of the
Appeal Authority’s decision has expired, the required time for filing for
District Court review shall be tolled until thirty (30) days after mediation
concludes; the arbitrator issues a final award; or the property rights
ombudsman issues a written statement under §13-43-204(3)(b) Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as amended, declining to arbitrate or to appoint an
arbitrator;
      1.   A tolling under this section operates only as to the specific
constitutional taking issue that is the subject of the request for mediation or
arbitration filed with the property rights ombudsman by a property owner;
      2.   A request for mediation or arbitration filed with the property
rights ombudsman after the time under this Section to file an appeal petition
in the District Court has expired does not affect the time to file in the
District Court;
      3.   District Court – Preparation of the Record. The Appeal Authority
shall transmit to the District Court the record of its proceedings, including
its minutes, findings, orders, and, if available, a true and correct transcript
of its proceedings; and
      4.   If the proceeding was tape recorded, a certified transcript of that
tape recording is a true and correct transcript for purposes of this section.
The party filing a petition for review in District Court shall pay for the
certified transcription of the proceedings.
   M.   Staying of Decision. The filing of a petition in District Court does
not stay the decision of the Land Use Authority, or Appeal Authority, as the
case may be. Before filing a petition in District Court under this section, or
before making a request for mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking
issue under §13-43-204 Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, the party may
petition the Appeal Authority to stay its decision. Upon receipt of a request
to stay its decision, the Appeal Authority may order its decision stayed
pending District Court review if the Appeal Authority finds that the
correctness of its decision is reasonably debatable and a stay would be in the
best interest of the Town and its residents and property owners.
Chapter 7.
Qualifying Regulations and Procedures.
   Section
10.7.10.   Purpose.
   Section
10.7.20.   Amendments to Code and Map.
   Section
10.7.30.   Minimum Performance Standards.
   Section
10.7.40.   Health Department Approval for Water and Sewer.
   Section
10.7.50.   One Dwelling Per Lot.
   Section
10.7.60.   Occupying a Building.
   Section
10.7.70.   Structures and Uses Prohibited In Zones Unless Expressly Permitted.
   Section
10.7.80.   Zoning.
   Section
10.7.90.   Plot Plan Approval Required.
   Section
10.7.100.   Frontage on an Approved Public Street Required.
   Section
10.7.110.   Private Roads.
   Section
10.7.120.   Motor Vehicle Access.
   Section
10.7.130.   Land Uses in an Emergency.
   Section
10.7.140.   Structure to Have Access.
   Section
10.7.150.   Buildable Area and Survey Requirements.
   Section
10.7.160.   Architectural Style.
   Section
10.7.170.   Licensing.
   Section
10.7.180.   Required Property Maintenance.
   Section
10.7.190.   Uses, Buildings and Structures to Comply with Zoning Requirements.
   Section
10.7.200.   Moved Buildings.
   Section
10.7.210.   Flood Protection.
   Section
10.7.220.   Fencing.
   Section
10.7.230.   Public Facilities.
   Section
10.7.240.   Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles or “RV”s.
   Section
10.7.250   Accessory Buildings and Accessory Structures;General Requirements.
   Section
10.7.260.   Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures.
   Section
10.7.270. Temporary Dwellings and Storage Structures.
   Section
10.7.280.   Biosolids Derived from Sewage and Wastewater.
   Section
10.7.290.   Animal Rights
Section 10.7.10. Purpose.
   The intent of this chapter is to accumulate, under one heading, regulations
which apply to two (2) or more zones rather than to repeat them several times.
It is not the intent of this section to specify uses allowed within a zone but
to set forth supplementary and qualifying conditions which must be complied
with in connection with such uses. Each zone may have additional conditions
listed. Where two conflicting conditions exist the more restrictive shall
apply.
Section 10.7.20. Amendments to Code and Map.
   A.   This title and/or its provisions, including the official zoning map,
may be petitioned for amendment by any citizen of the Town of Fairfield as
hereinafter provided, or through action initiated by the Mayor, Town Council or
Planning Commission.
   B.   Intent with Respect to Amendments. It is hereby declared to be public
policy that this title shall not be amended except to more fully carry out the
intent and purpose of the General Plan of the Town and of this title.
   C.   Procedure. Any person seeking to enact or amend a land use ordinance/
code or the zoning map shall submit to the Planning Commission a Land Use
Ordinance Change Application designating the change desired and the reasons
therefore and shall pay the required filing fee (see FF fee schedule) to the
Town. Upon receipt of the application and the paying of the filing fee, the
Planning Commission shall consider the request and shall certify its
recommendations to the Town Council with respect to the request within ninety
(90) days from receipt of the request. Failure on the part of the Planning
Commission to certify its recommendations to the Town Council within ninety
(90) days shall be deemed to constitute a recommendation for approval unless a
longer period is granted by the Town Council. The fee required shall be
nonrefundable. The Planning Commission or Town Council may also initiate
amendments to this title or map.
   D.   Fees. Fees shall be set by the Town Council and will be included on the
Town fee schedule.
   E.   Public Hearing Required Before Amending and Notice. A Land Use Code may
be adopted only after a public hearing is held in relation thereto before the
Planning Commission at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Public Hearing shall be noticed in compliance with the
Utah Open and Public Meetings Act. (Ut. Code 52-4-101.)
Section 10.7.30. Minimum Performance Standards.
   The operation of any use permitted in Fairfield Town is subject to the
following standards of performance:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall review the site plan and building
elevations. The Planning Commission shall confirm compliance with architectural
design, set backs, landscaping, easements, dedications, etc. to assure
compliance with the General Plan and with the Towns generally applicable
policies and regulations. see Title
9.1.30 site plan requirements.
   B.   All uses must be operated so that all practical means are used to
confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or other similar features to
the premises upon which they are located and shall not inhibit the everyday use
of adjacent properties. All uses must comply with the Fairfield Nuisance Code.
see
Title 5.1.00.
   C.   All uses in non residential zones shall be conducted entirely within a
fully enclosed building except those uses deemed by the Planning Commission and
Town Council to be customarily and appropriately conducted outside. Such uses
include service stations, gas pumps, plant nurseries, outdoor RV or boat
storage, home improvement material yards, etc.
   D.   Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any other
purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the lighted
property by appropriate directional hooding. Any outdoor lighting shall comply
with Fairfield Outdoor Lighting Standards. see
Title 9.3.00.
   E.   All storm water must be maintained on site.
   F.   Fairfield Town places great importance on its agricultural areas and
the protection and preservation of agricultural land and agricultural
activities within the Town. All uses must comply with the Right to Farm
Ordinance. see
Title 9.7.00.
   G.   All buildings and structures located in an area not zoned for
residential uses shall be prohibited as permanent living quarters or residences
unless otherwise provided for by conditional use. see Title 10.17.70.
   H.   If more than four (4) of the following items described in one through
six (1-6) below are parked or stored on a single parcel of land or lot or being
used as a business, the landowner shall apply for and be governed by a
conditional use permit as outlined in this Title:
      1.   Heavy-duty vehicles, specially designed for executing construction
tasks, most frequently ones involving earthwork_operations. They are also known
as heavy machines, heavy trucks, construction equipment, engineering equipment,
heavy vehicles, or heavy hydraulics;
      2.   Double axle trailers that are used to haul or transport heavy
equipment and are used for storage of equipment or materials used for a
commercial business;
      3.   Storage of any equipment that requires a UDOT Permit number to
legally drive or be transported on Utah Roads;
      4.   Box trucks, containers and box trailers are allowed per individual
zoning requirements. Any amount of containers over 4 must be painted to match
aesthetics..
      5.   Containers used as screening for an area must be painted in colors
that blend with its surroundings or match the aesthetics of the surrounding
area; or
      6.   Any commercial storage, storage for a business, goods and products,
including large stationary equipment, must be stored behind a screened wall.
Planning and Zoning or Town Council may require additional screening
requirements where deemed necessary.
   I.   These regulations may be modified by a conditional use permit with the
approval of the Town Council and a positive recommendation from the Planning
Commission.
Section 10.7.40. Health Department Approval for Water and Sewer.
   Noresidence, campground, resort, commercial establishment, or manned
industrial plant shall be used or occupied, nor a permit issued therefore,
until a potable water supply facility and sanitary sewage disposal facility
have been installed with the approval of the County Health Department as
meeting county standards; further, before a building permit shall be issued,
plans showing the proposed water and sewage facilities shall first be approved
by said Health Department and proof be shown to the proper Town authority.
Section 10.7.50. One Dwelling Per Lot.
   A.   Only one building that contains a dwelling shall be located and
maintained on a lot provided:
      1.   Such lot meets all requirements of the Land Use Code, including the
requirements of the Zoning in which the lot is located: or
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   An approved accessory dwelling unit (ADU);
         b.   As part of a conditional use.
Section 10.7.60. Occupying a Building.
   Nobuilding shall be occupied unless all fees have been paid and all
inspections completed. Residential occupancy of a home requires the issuance of
a Certificate of Occupancy by Fairfield Town.
Section 10.7.70. Structures and Uses Prohibited in Zones Unless Expressly
Permitted.
   Structures and uses of land which are not expressly permitted within a zone
are declared to be expressly prohibited by the action of the Fairfield Town
Land Use Code or Zoning Map. Any use not expressly permitted can only become
permitted through the normal petition of this Land Use Code.
Section 10.7.80. Zoning.
   Where a lot of record at the time of passage of this Ordinance/Title, or any
amendment thereto, falls into two (2) or more zones, the requirements of the
more restrictive zone shall apply.
Section 10.7.90. Plot Plan Approval Required.
   A.   At the time a building permit is requested for any building or
structure, or at the time the use of land is changed a plot plan shall be
submitted.
Section 10.7.100. Frontage on an Approved Public Street Required.
   For adequate access by emergency vehicles and local occupants, the frontage
of each lot used as a site for a dwelling, commercial establishment, manned
industrial plant, or other facility occupied by humans, shall abut on an
official state road, county road, or approved town street, and from which
frontage such facility gains vehicular and pedestrian access entirely across
the subject lot.
Section 10.7.110. Private Roads.
   See title
6.3.150.
Section 10.7.120. Motor Vehicle Access.
   See title
6.3.160.(F).
Section 10.7.130. Land Uses In an Emergency.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of a zone to the contrary, whenever the
federal, state or county government has declared a disaster area, or a state of
emergency or extreme danger, in Fairfield Town which requires a temporary use
permit to deal with the situation the Town Council may order the necessary
permit issued.
Section 10.7.140. Structure to Have Access.
   All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to a public street or with access
to an approved private street, and shall be located on lots so as to provide
safe and convenient access for fire and public protection.
Section 10.7.150.  Buildable Area and Survey Requirements.
   A.   Every lot or parcel created after the effective date hereof shall have
a buildable area sufficient to establish a building or structure thereon which
meets the minimum standards of the zoning in which the lot or parcel is
located. Any area located within an easement may not be included within any
buildable area unless the easement beneficiary executes and records a release
of the easement in a form acceptable to the Town Attorney.
   B.   Each lot must have a completed survey before a building permit will be
issued.
   C.   Setbacks will be measured from either the lot line or fence line
whichever is the shortest distance.
Section 10.7.160. Architectural Styles.
   Architectural styles shall be consistent with surrounding structures and the
environment.
Section 10.7.170. Licensing.
   All departments, officials and public employees of the Town, which are
vested with the duty and authority to issue permits or licenses, shall conform
to the provisions of this Title and shall issue no permit or license for a use,
building or purpose where the same would be in conflict with the provisions of
this Title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this Title, shall be null and void. Issuance of a permit or
license in conflict with the provisions of this Title shall not stop the Town
from enforcing the provisions of this Title.
Section 10.7.180. Required Property Maintenance.
   All buildings, uses, lots and parcels located within the Town shall be
maintained and operated in a manner to enhance community pride and
beautification. No junk, rubbish, weeds or other unsightly material or
conditions shall be permitted on any lot, right of way or easement, or as part
of any building or use.
Section 10.7.190. Uses, Buildings and Structures to Comply with Zoning
Requirements.
   Every building or structure erected, reconstructed, altered, enlarged or
moved, and every building, structure or land, rearranged, designed or intended
for any use shall be built or used only as allowed by the requirements of this
Title and the zoning in which such building, structure, land or use is located.
Section 10.7.200. Moved Buildings.
   It is the purpose of this code to prevent the degradation of neighborhoods
by prohibiting the moving in of unsightly, or unsafe buildings. As a special
exception to the code, the Land Use Authority may authorize a building permit
to be issued to move a building onto a lot upon compliance with the following
conditions:
   A.   Pre-inspection. No permit shall be issued, nor approval given, for the
moving of any building from one site within the Town to another site within the
Town, or from a site outside of the Town to a site within the Town, without a
prior building inspection being made to determine whether or not the building
complies with the standards of the building codes adopted by Fairfield. The
applicant shall submit, along with his or her application, a report from an
independent building inspector who is licensed by the State of Utah to inspect
the type of building to be moved, and a report from an independent structural
engineer who is licensed by the State of Utah. These reports must state whether
the building complies with the current codes, and, if not, a list of those
things which need to be done to meet the current standards of the code.
Furthermore, the applicant shall obtain site plan approval.
   B.   Application. The following information shall be filed with the Town
Staff at the time the application is made:
      1.   Location and address of the old and new site;
      2.   Plot plan of the new location, also showing adjacent lots on all
sides of the property and indicating all structures and improvements on said
lots; and
      3.   Plans and specifications for the proposed improvements of the new
location, including compliance with Chapter 19 of this Title.
      4.   Must obtain a Building Permit. see Title
9.1.10., Building.
Section 10.7.210. Flood Protection.
   No dwelling or other building used for human habitation shall be constructed
within one hundred (100) feet of the banks of a stream, gully, or other flood
channel in accordance with FEMA standards. No use or structure (except flood
control works or irrigation diversion dams) shall be permitted in any flood
channel.
Section 10.7.220. Fencing.
   All zones in the town of Fairfield are fence in zones, "NOT' fence out
zones. A developer or adjacent landowner (known as the remover) shall not
remove a fence for construction or any other reason without a written agreement
with the adjoining landowner.The fence that is removed must be re-erected
within an agreed upon time frame. It must be re-erected in the exact location
with new materials equal or superior in quality. If there is a need for an
extended period the remover must pay the adjacent landowner any expenses per
day that is inquired due to the unusable land without a fence. If these
conditions are not met the Town has the authority to place a stop work order on
the project.
Section 10.7.230. Public Facilities. Reserved.
Section 10.7.240. Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles or “RV”s.
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful to place any recreational vehicle on any lot or
parcel of land in Fairfield Town and to use the same for permanent human
habitation except:.
         a.   when located in a travel-trailer court or
         b.   when a building permit has been issued and a building is being
constructed and is connected;
         to an approved water and sewer facilities but not to exceed one (1)
year, or as state law permits.
      2.   It is unlawful to place a mobile home manufactured prior to June 15,
1976 on any lot or parcel of land within the incorporated portion of Fairfield
Town; and
      3.   Manufactured or mobile homes are built with the intended use as a
dwelling unit for human habitation. It is unlawful to use manufactured or
mobile homes for storage sheds, workshops animal shed/barn, or uses other than
dwelling units for human habitation.
   B.   Exceptions. It is unlawful to place a manufactured home on any lot or
parcel of land within the incorporated portion of Fairfield Town except in
compliance with the following:
      1.   All manufactured homes constructed on or after June 15, 1976 shall
be identifiable by the manufacturer's data plate attached to the interior of
the home bearing the date the unit was manufactured and a Federal Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. (HUD Code). The label attached
to the exterior of the home certifying the home was manufactured to HUD
standards, and label and plate must be in-place as stated;
      2.   When placed on a lot that complies with all the regulations of the
zone in which the manufactured home is located, provided; a. A residential
dwelling is a permitted use in the zone and the manufactured home is connected
to an approved water supply and domestic wastewater disposal system; b. The
owner of the manufactured home and/or the lot owner has obtained a building
permit from Fairfield Town for the installation of the manufactured home; c.
The manufactured home is placed on a permanent foundation in accordance with
the plans providing for vertical loads, uplift, and lateral forces and frost
protection which are in compliance with the applicable building code; d. The
running gear and hitch shall be removed from those manufactured homes which are
entered on the tax rolls of Fairfield Town as real property; e. With the
exception of the manufactured home being in one name and the property owner
(as) being in another, the manufactured home shall be entered on the tax rolls
of Fairfield Town as real property; and f. The roof shall be constructed to
meet the snow-load requirements for the given area.
Section 10.7.250. Accessory Buildings and Accessory Structures; General
Requirements.
   A.   An “Accessory Structure or Accessory Building”, for the purposes of
this section, are interchangeable terms that shall be: 
      1.   Clearly incidental to and found in connection with a principal or
main building;
      2.   Subordinate to and serves a principal or main building;
      3.   Subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal or main
building served;
      4.   Located on the same lot as the principal or main building served;
      5.   A structure that contributes to the comfort, convenience, or
necessity of the occupants, business, or industry in the principal or main
building; and
      6.   A structure that does not include conex type shipping containers.
   B.   General Requirements:
      1.   Accessory structures and accessory uses may be authorized in
association with a primary building or primary use;
      2.   Accessory structures and accessory uses shall only be authorized
concurrently with, or following, the establishment of the primary building or
primary use;
      3.   No storm water runoff from any accessory structure shall be allowed
to run onto adjacent property;
      4.   Accessory structures shall meet the required standards in the zone
in which the accessory structure is located;
      5.   Accessory structures shall comply with the requirements of the most
recently adopted Building Code, as applicable;
      6.   Requires site plan approval for any occupiable structure over two
hundred forty four (244) sq. ft. Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
      7.   No shipping container, cargo container, shipping crate, box, trailer
or similar movable piece of equipment or object shall be considered an
accessory structure;
      8.   No accessory structure shall be rented, leased or sold separately
from the rental, lease or sale of the primary building; and
      9.   No accessory structure shall be used as a permanent or temporary
living quarters.
      10.   All accessory structures shall have a Zoning Compliance Certificate
from Fairfield Town.
   C.   Limitations on Height, Size and Location of Garages and Other Accessory
Buildings in Residential Zones. In an effort to avoid the appearance of
commercial style buildings in residential zones, and to protect the character
and stability of residential neighborhoods, the following requirements for
garages and other accessory buildings located in residential zones are
provided:
      1.   Accessory Building Maximum Height. No Accessory Building shall be
higher than two story
      2.   The appearance of the building shall fit in with its surroundings
and shall not look like a commercial style building.
   D.    Approvals for Accessory Buildings. Unless otherwise exempt by this
chapter, all accessory buildings require a building permit. (see section
9.1.10) Exempt accessory buildings shall require a Zoning Compliance
Certificate (see section
9.1.95). Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
   E.   Smaller Accessory Buildings; Exemption From Building Permit
Requirements. An accessory building with a maximum height of sixteen (16) feet
and a maximum size of less than two hundred (200) square feet and no permanent
foundation shall be exempt from building permit and Zoning Compliance
Certificate requirements, provided all setback requirements for the zoning in
which the accessory building is located are met. Accessory buildings that do
not meet the requirements shall be subject to fines in conjunction with code
enforcement.
Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
   F.   Agricultural Building Requirements. An Agricultural Building shall
require the following:
      1.   A Zoning Compliance Certificate from Fairfield Town (see Section
9.1.95);
      2.   A completed Agricultural Exemption Acknowledgement Application.
      3.   Applicant shall follow Utah State Code; and
      4.   Any change of use may require a building permit.
   Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 10.7.260. Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures.
   A.   Intent. It is the intent of this code that non-complying structures and
nonconforming uses of land existing at the time of passage of the zoning code,
but not in conformance therewith, be changed, ultimately, to complying
structures and conforming uses and that non-complying structures and
nonconforming uses shall not be continued, increased, nor expanded except as
permitted herein.
   B.   Continuation. Except as provided below in this section, a noncomplying
structure or a nonconforming use of land may be continued to the same extent
and character as that which was legally existing and permitted on the effective
date of the code provision(s) causing noncompliance or nonconformity if:
      1.   No increase or expansion is made; and
      2.   The lot on which the structure or use lies is unchanged, provided,
however, that a non-complying structure consisting of an occupied structure
shall be allowed to continue in its non-complying status when the boundaries of
the parcel on which the occupied structure is located are changed to create a
platted subdivision lot, if the noncompliance is not deemed a hazard to public
safety.
   C.   Amending Recorded Non Complying Plats. Recorded, non complying plats
can be amended pursuant to the procedure contained in this Fairfield Town Land
Use Code.
   D.   Nonconforming Lot of Record. A nonconforming lot of record which
conforms with every provision and requirement of this code for a single-family
dwelling or manufactured home, except for the required lot area and/or required
lot width along the side abutting a state or town road, may be granted a
building permit for a one-family dwelling or manufactured home notwithstanding
such deficiency in lot area or width provided that it was shown continuously on
the records of the County Clerk or Recorder as an independent parcel since
before the effective date of this code /ordinance.
   E.   Expansion. A non complying structure or nonconforming use of land may
be expanded only if:
      1.   A health or safety official of Utah County, the State of Utah, or
the United States of America, acting in his official capacity requires such
expansion in order for the use to continue, and if: (Note: Fairfield Town does
not have a Health Department)
         a.   The requirement is based upon the health, safety, and/or building
codes administered by such official;
         b.   A copy of the written findings by such official, and the order
based thereon, are presented to the Zoning Commission as part of the
application for a permit; and
         c.   The official states the use cannot continue unless such an
expansion is made; or
         d.   Recommendations are made to the Town Council;
      2.   The Planning Commission approves the expansion after making any of
the following findings:
         a.   The specific use and structure to be expanded is a non complying,
single-family dwelling;
         b.   The boundaries of the lot on which the single-family dwelling
lies are unchanged from those existing when the dwelling became non complying;
         c.   The proposed expansion meets all the requirements of the zone in
which it is located for subdivision, health department approval of water supply
and sewage, flood protection, parking, and setback, except new construction may
be approved within the required front setback distance if it does not intrude
beyond the setback of the existing structure;
         d.   The specific use and structure to be expanded is an existing
church or other structure for religious worship that is located on a legal
nonconforming lot of record; and
         e.   The overall use and structure meet all of the requirements of
Fairfield Town and the State of Utah for fire protection, water supply for fire
suppression, drinking water, sewage disposal, drainage and flood protection,
subdivision plat approval, parking capacity, building setback, and construction
code compliance.
   F.   Repairs. Repairs may be made to a non complying structure, but only
when the repair is for the purpose of the maintenance of the existing
structure. The repair cannot increase the square footage of the structure,
cannot alter the footprint of the structure, and cannot create or relocate any
exterior walls of the structure.
   G.   Replacement of Destroyed Buildings. A non complying structure which is
rendered uninhabitable by the destruction of a fire, flood, or other calamity
or act of nature may be restored and the preexisting use resumed provided that
a building permit for reconstruction is obtained within one year from the date
of destruction and construction is diligently executed to completion and re-
occupancy. Such restoration shall not increase the floor area of the
nonconforming structure.
   H.   Change In Use. A non complying structure or a nonconforming use of land
shall not be changed to another non complying structure or nonconforming use
whatsoever; changes shall not be made except in conformity with the current
provisions of the Land Use Code. Any non complying structure or nonconforming
use which has been changed to a complying structure or conforming use shall not
thereafter be changed back to a non complying structure or a nonconforming use.
   I.   No Rights Gained by Unpermitted Occupancy or Use. No nonconforming
status, nor any right to occupy a structure or use of a structure or parcel of
land contrary to the provisions of this code, shall be gained through such
occupancy or use in the past when such was illegal or accomplished without a
permit.
   J.   Effect of Amendments. The provisions of the Land Use Code pertaining to
non complying structures and nonconforming uses of land also apply to
structures and land uses which hereafter become noncomplying and nonconforming
because of an amendment to the Land Use code.
   K.   The Lot Lies in the Zone. The lot has existed continuously on the
official records of the County Clerk or Recorder as an independent parcel prior
to 2005 and every provision and requirement of this Code, except for said area
and width requirement is met.
   L.   Effect of Tax Sales on Non Conforming Uses. When Utah County or
Fairfield Town acquires title to any property because of tax sale, the future
use of the property shall conform to the existing requirements within the zone.
Section 10.7.270.  Temporary Dwellings and Storage Structures. see Title
9.1.80.
Section 10.7.280 Biosolids Derived from Sewage and Wastewater.    Reserved.
Section 10.7.290. Animal Rights.
   A.   Intent. Fairfield Town is an agricultural community that prides itself
on a rural farming and ranching atmosphere. Animals are a large part of this
atmosphere.
   B.   Animals shall be kept, cared for, and maintained in a humane manner
that does not pose a significant health risk to the residents or other animals
in the Town.
   C.   There shall be sufficient area for the animal(s) to move about freely,
in accordance with acceptable agricultural practices.
   D.   Noxious odors created by animal(s) shall be mitigated so as not to
cause a nuisance to neighboring landowners.
   E.   Animals shall not infringe upon the rights of neighboring landowners.
   F.   Fairfield Town is a fence in, not a fence out community. See Right to
Farm Ordinance
Title 9, Chapter 7.
Chapter 11.
Zoning.
   Section
10.11.10.   Zones Established.
   Section
10.11.20.   Definitions.
   Section
10.11.30.   Official Zoning Map.
   Section
10.11.40.   Boundaries of Zones.
   Section
10.11.50.   Regulations within Zones.
   Section
10.11.60.   Rezoning.
   Section
10.11.70.   Reserved.
   Section
10.11.80.   Reserved
   Section
10.11.90.   Reserved.
   Section
10.11.100.   AR-1 - Agricultural Residential Zone - 1 Acre.
   Section
10.11.110.   Reserved.
   Section
10.11.120.   Reserved.
   Section
10.11.125.   AR-5 - Agricultural Residential Zone - 5 Acres.
   Section
10.11.150.   AR-10 - Agricultural Residential Zone - 10 Acres.
   Section
10.11.175.   AR-40 - Agricultural Residential Zone - 40 Acres.
   Section
10.11.200.   Light Industrial West Zone.
   Section
10.11.210      Light Industrial East Zone.
   Section
10.30.225.   Commercial Overlay Zone.
   Section
10.11.250.   Heavy Industrial Zone.
   Section
10.11.260.   Reserved for Airpark Zone.
   Section
10.11.275.   Airpark Overlay Zone.
Section 10.11.10. Zones Established.
   A.   In order to carry out the purposes of this Title, the Town is hereby
divided into zones as follows:
      1.   AR-1    Residential Agricultural Zone.
      2.   AR-5    Residential Agricultural Zone.
      3.   AR-10 Residential Agricultural Zone.
      4.   AR-40 Agricultural Residential Zone.
      5.   Light Industrial West Zone.
      6.   Light Industrial East Zone.
      7.   Commercial Overlay Zone.
      8.   Heavy Industrial Zone.
      9.   Airpark Zone.
      10.   Airpark Overlay Zone.
Section 10.11.20. Definitions.
   Definitions. See
Title 12.
Section 10.11.30. Official Zoning Map.
   A.   The location and boundary of each of the zones are shown on the
official zoning map of Fairfield Town Utah and said map is hereby declared to
be an official record and a part of this title and shall be kept at the
Fairfield Town Office.
   B.   Whenever amendments or changes are made in zone boundaries, such
amendments or changes shall be made on the official zoning map. No amendment or
change shall become effective until after the zoning map has been updated.
   C.   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map, which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map
which shall be located in the office of the Fairfield Town recorder shall be
the final authority in determining current zoning status.
Section 10.11.40. Boundaries of Zones.
   A.   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of various
zones, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   Street or Alley Lines. Where the intended boundaries on the zone map
are approximately street or alley lines, said street or alleys shall be
construed to be the zone boundaries;
      2.   Lot Lines. Where the indicated boundaries are approximately lot
lines, said lot lines shall be construed to be the zone boundaries, unless
otherwise indicated;
      3.   Unsubdivided Land. Where land has not been subdivided into lots, the
zone boundary shall be determined by the use of the scale of measurement shown
on the map; and
      4.   Uncertainty. Where other uncertainties exist, the Planning
Commission shall interpret the map.
Section 10.11.50. Regulations Within Zones.
   Within each of the zones, the use, location, height, size of buildings and
structures, the use of land, size of lots, yards, courts, and other open
spaces, and density of population, are regulated as hereinafter set forth. Any
use not specifically permitted in the Zone shall be prohibited.
Section 10.11.60. Rezoning.
   Property owners desiring to change the zoning classification for property
which they own, whether individually or as a part of a larger development
project, shall make an application to the Planning Commission. The requirements
and procedures for such rezoning applications are as follows:
   A.   Application Requirements. Applications to rezone property shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A completed Fairfield Town rezone request application;
      2.   A concept plan depicting the layout, including, but not limited to,
roads, parks, trails, and type of development anticipated within each zoning
classification being requested;
      3.   If deemed necessary by the Planning Commission, an impact analysis,
including but not limited to: traffic, economic, and wildlife;
      4.   The current zoning classification;
      5.   Legal description of the property(ies) proposed to be rezoned along
with a map and area calculation for each area to be affected; and
      6.   Rezoning application fees, as determined by resolution of the Town
Council and listed in the Fairfield Town fee schedule.
   B.   Procedure. Upon receipt of a complete application, with any other
supporting documentation and the application fee, the application shall be
scheduled for review by the Planning Commission at the next available meeting
(s), following proper notice as outlined in Utah State Code 10-9a-205. Upon
receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission, the application will
be scheduled for a public hearing. Following the public hearing, the
application will be scheduled for review by the Town Council at the next
available meeting(s), following proper notice as outlined in Utah State Code
10-9a-202 . Following approval from the Town Council, the property will be
rezoned on the official Town zoning map and the property owner will be required
to comply with any and all regulations applicable within the zoning
classification to which the property is rezoned.
   C.  Requirements For Approval. In order to grant an approval for the
rezoning of property, the Planning Commission and Town Council must find that:
      1.   The rezoning conforms to the intent of the Fairfield Town general
plan and annexation policy plan;
      2.   The rezoning will not adversely affect surrounding properties; and
      3.   The rezoning will not cause property, structures, or uses of the
property to unnecessarily become nonconforming according to this Title.
   D.   Corrective Measures. No rezoning shall be permitted as a corrective
measure for a property, use, or structure on a property which is found to be in
violation of any provision of this title by the building official, zoning
administrator, or other authorized officer.
   E.   Resubmission. No application for rezoning which receives a denial from
the Town Council shall be permitted to resubmit the same application for a
period of not less than twelve (12) months from the date of denial unless the
applicant(s) can provide documentation of information or facts that were not
available at the time of review of the original application.
Section 10.11.70. Reserved.
Section 10.11.80. Reserved.
Section 10.11.90. Reserved.
Section 10.11.100. AR-1. Agricultural Residential Zone - 1 Acre.
   A.   Purpose. To create a rural agricultural/residential zone which is
intended as a permanent residential zone for those areas of the community where
it is desirable to maintain low residential densities.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area                   1 acre.
      2.   Frontage                   125 ft.
      3.   Setbacks - Residential Buildings          Front - 25 ft., Side - 15
ft., Rear - 40 ft.
      4.   Height                   35 ft. maximum.
      5.   Setbacks - Accessory Structures          Street - 25 ft., Side/Rear
Yard - 5 ft.
      6.   Road type                  Local.
   C.   Permitted Uses. Permitted Uses. The following land uses shall be
permitted uses in the AR-1 Zone. Any use not specifically permitted in this
chapter shall be prohibited:
      1.   Agriculture.
      2.   Farm Animals.
      3.   Child Care Center- 8 children or less.
      4.   Church.
      5.   Residential-Single Family.
      6.   Household Pets.
      7.   Manufactured Home.
      8.   Modular Home.
      9.   Outdoor Rec-Park-Play.
      10.   Public-Rights of Way.
      11.   Public Utility Stations-except sewer.
      12.   Schools, Public and Private-Quasi Public.
      13.   Accessory Structure.
      14.   Public Parks and Other Public Utilities.
   D.   Conditional Uses. The following land uses are a conditional use in the
AR-1 Zone. Standards for conditional use can be found in Title 10.17.00.
   Conditional Use:
      1.   Home Based Business.
Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
Rev. ord. 06202023, passed 6-20-2023.
Section 10.11.110. Reserved.
Section 10.11.120. Reserved.
Section 10.11.125. AR-5. Agricultural Residential Zone - 5 Acres.
   A.   Purpose. To create a rural agricultural/residential zone which is
intended as a permanent residential zone for those areas of the community where
it is desirable to maintain low residential densities.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area                5 acres.
      2.   Frontage                250 ft.
      3.   Setbacks - Residential Buildings       Front - 25 ft., Side - 15
ft., Rear - 40 ft.
      4.   Height                  35 ft. maximum.
      5.   Setbacks - Accessory Structure      Street - 25 ft., Side/Rear - 5
ft.I We
      6.   Road Type               Rural or Local.
   C.   Permitted Uses. The following land uses shall be permitted uses in the
AR-5 Zone. Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter shall be
prohibited:
      1.   Agriculture.
      2.   Farm Animals.
      3.   Child Care Center - 8 children or less.
      4.   Church.
      5.   Residential, Single Family.
      6.   Household Pets.
      7.   Manufactured Home.
      8.   Modular Home.
      9.   Outdoor Rec-Park-Play.
      10.   Public Rights of Way.
      11.   Public Utility Stations except sewer.
      12.   Schools, Public and Private-Quasi Public.
      13.   Accessory Structure.
   D.   Conditional Uses. The following land uses are a conditional use in the
AR-5 Zone. Standards for conditional use can be found in Chapter 17 of this
Title:
      1.   Home Based Business.
Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 10.11.150. AR-10. Agricultural Residential Zone - 10 Acres.
   A.   Purpose. To create a rural agricultural residential zone which is
intended as a permanent residential zone for those areas of the community where
it is desirable to maintain a low residential densities.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area                10 acres.
      2.   Frontage                350 ft.
      3.   Setbacks - Residential Building       Front - 25 ft., Side - 15 ft.,
Rear - 40 ft.
      4.   Height                35 ft. maximum.
      5.   Setbacks - Accessory Structures       Street - 25 ft., Side/Rear
Yard - 3 ft.
      6.   Road Type               Rural.
   C.   Permitted Uses. The following land uses shall be permitted uses in the
AR-10 Zone. Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter shall be
prohibited:
      1.   Agriculture.
      2.   Farm Animals.
      3.   Child Care Center- 8 children or less.
      4.   Church.
      5.   Residential, Single Family.
      6.   Household Pets.
      7.   Manufactured Home.
      8.   Modular Home.
      9.   Outdoor Rec-Park-Play.
      10.   Rights of Way.
      11.   Public Utility Stations except Sewer.
      12.   Schools, Public and Private-Quasi Public.
      13.   Accessory Structure.
   D.   Conditional Uses. The following land uses are conditional uses in the
AR-10 Zone. Standards for conditional use can be found in Chapter 17 of this
Title:
      1.   Home Based Business.
Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 10.11.175. AR-40. Agricultural Residential Zone - 40 Acres.
   A.   Purpose. To create a rural agricultural residential zone which is
intended as a permanent residential zone for those areas of the community where
it is desirable to maintain a low residential densities.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area                40 acres.
      2.   Frontage                350 ft.
      3.   Setbacks - Residential Buildings       Front - 25 ft., Side - 15
ft., Rear - 40 ft.
      4.   Height                35 ft. maximum.
      5.   Setbacks - Accessory Structures       Street - 25 ft., Side/Rear
Yard - 3 ft.
      6.   Road Type               Rural.
   C.   Permitted Uses. The following land uses shall be permitted uses in AR-
40 Zone. Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter shall be
prohibited:
      1.   Agriculture.
      2.   Farm Animals.
      3.   Child Care Center - 8 children or less.
      4.   Church.
      5.   Residential, Single Family.
      6.   Household Pets.
      7.   Manufactured Home.
      8.   Modular Home.
      9.   Outdoor Rec-Park-Play.
      10.   Public Rights of Way.
      11.   Public Utility Stations except Sewer.
      12.   Schools, Public and Private-Quasi Public.
      13.   Accessory Structure.
   D.   Conditional Uses. The following land uses are conditional uses in Zone
AR-40. Standards for conditional use can be found in Chapter 17 of this Title:
      1.   Home Based Business.
Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
Section 10.11.200. Light Industrial West Zone.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose is to create a zone which:
      1.   Allows for a compatible mixture of commercial and light industrial
uses. Establishments that are served by streets, power, water, sewage, and
other utilities, or facilities; or where such facilities can be readily
provided which do not require intensive land coverage; generate large volumes
of traffic; or create obnoxious sounds, glare, dust, or odors; and
      2.   Includes areas which are well adapted to industrial development, but
proximity to residential or business zones makes it desirable to limit the
manner and extent of industrial operations.
   B.   Area Requirements. Lots or parcels in the Light Industrial West Zone
shall be of sufficient size to assure compliance with the Fairfield Town
parking, landscaping, utilities, site plan and other land development
regulations that may govern all or a portion of each project.
   C.   Master Site Plan Required. All developments in this zone are required
to submit a master site plan that includes maps and descriptions of
construction, landscaping, Health Department requirements, and uses.
   D.   Storm Water. All storm water must be retained on site in accordance
with an engineered plan.
   F.   Minimum Lot Size/Water Requirement. A ten (10) acre minimum lot size is
required for any lot not connected to an approved municipal culinary water
system.
   G.`   Frontage Requirement. For adequate access by emergency vehicles and
local occupants the frontage of each lot shall be a minimum of one hundred
sixty-five (165) ft. and shall abut an official state, county or town road
which has been paved under the direction of the unit government's having
jurisdiction and from which frontage gains vehicle and pedestrian access
exclusively, and entirely across the subject lot.
   H.   Setback Requirements. The following setback requirements are intended
to describe the amount of space required between buildings and property lines.
All buildings in this Light Industrial West Zone, including accessory
buildings, are required to maintain a minimum distance from property lines as
set forth below. Conditional uses may require greater setbacks so as to prevent
a nuisance or safety issue as determined by the Town Council:
      1.   Front Setbacks:
         a.   Front setbacks will be determined by the size of the building,
landscape, and parking requirements.
      2.   Sides and Rear Setbacks:
         a.   Minimum of twenty (20) feet from the parcel property line.
         b.   Additional lot setbacks will be determined by fire and building
code.
      3.   Setback Variances. The Town Council, in consideration of a prior
recommendation by the
         a.   Planning Commission, may increase or decrease the setbacks if, in
its judgment, the need for change meets at least two (2) or more of the
following criteria:
         a.   Does not interfere with the use, enjoyment, and character of
adjacent properties;
         b.   The success of the business necessitates a specific setback,
proven by data or research;
         c.   Additional setback is not solely to provide space for parking
between the building and the street; and
         d.   Topography or natural features make it impossible or
impracticable to place the building within the setback.
      4.   Setbacks for Accessory Structure:
         a.   Minimum of six (6) feet from the parcel property line;
         b.   Additional setbacks will be determined by fire and building code;
         c.   Accessory structure square footage shall not exceed that of the
primary building; and
         d.   Accessory structures may require a building permit.
   I.   Building Height. No building or structure in this zone shall be over
two (2) stories with a thirty five (35) ft. maximum height.
   J.   Landscaping and Nuisance Ordinance/Code Compliance. The yards around
buildings shall be kept in compliance with the Town Landscaping and Nuisance
Ordinance/Code.
   K.   Zone Development Standards. The following development standards shall
apply to the Light Industrial West Zone:
      1.   General Review. The Planning Commission shall review the site plan
and building elevations;
      2.   Architectural Design. The Planning Commission shall confirm
compliance with architectural design standards for buildings and structures to
assure compliance with the general plan and with the town’s generally
applicable policies and regulations;
      3.   Screening Requirements. See
10.17.70.13
      4.   Waste Storage. No solid waste, wrecked or abandoned vehicles, or
wrecked or abandoned equipment shall be stored in an open area. All wrecked or
abandoned vehicles or wrecked or abandoned equipment shall be kept fully
screened on all sides. Garbage dumpsters shall be located out of sight and away
from roads.
   L.   Permitted Uses. The following land uses shall be permitted uses in the
Light Industrial West Zone. Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter
shall be prohibited:
      1.   Accessory Structure Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
      2.   Agriculture Industry.
      3.   Agriculture.
      4.   Autos, Trucks, RV Sales & Rental.
      5.   Automotive Body/Paint Repair Establishment.
      6.   Automotive Repair Establishment.
      7.   Auto Self-Serve Station.
      8.   Auto Service Station.
      9.   Convenience Store.
      10.   Farm Animals.
      11.   Farm Equipment Sales.
      12.   Fireworks Sales/Stands.
      13.   Gas Station.
      14.   Nursery.
      15.   Pawn Shops.
      16.   Public Services.
      17.   Public Utility Stations w/ Sewer.
      18.   Repair Services, Small Appliance.
      19.   School - Private - Quasi Public.
      20.   Small Engine Repair.
      21.   Stable.
      22.   Telecommunications Facility less than Thirty Five (35) Feet in
Height.
      23.   Warehouse Storage Units, Commercial Only.
      24.   Welding Machine Shop.
   M.   Conditional Use. The following land uses are Conditional Use in the
Light Industrial West Zone. Standards for Conditional Use can be found in 
Chapter 17 of this Title:
      1.   Caretaker Dwellings (Non-Farm Uses).
      2.   Self-Storage and RV, Boat, Vehicle Storage.
      3.   Special Event Use.
      4.   Temporary and Special Event Permits.
      5.   Bounce Houses.
      6.   Industrial Outdoor Storage.
   N.   Junk yards are prohibited.
Section 10.11.210. Light Industrial East Zone.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the Light Industrial East Zone is to create a
zone which:
      1.   Allows for a compatible mixture of commercial and light industrial
uses. Establishments that are served by streets, power, water, sewage, and
other utilities, or facilities; or where such facilities can be readily
provided which do not require intensive land coverage; generate large volumes
of traffic; or create obnoxious sounds, glare, dust, or odors; and
      2.   Includes areas which are well adapted to industrial development, but
proximity to residential or business zones makes it desirable to limit the
manner and extent of industrial operations.
   B.   Area Requirements. Lots or parcels in the Light Industrial East Zone
shall be of sufficient size to assure compliance with the Fairfield Town
parking, landscaping, utilities, site plan and other land development
regulations that may govern all or a portion of each project.
   C.   Master Site Plan Required. All developments in this zone are required
to submit a master site plan that includes maps and descriptions of
construction, landscaping, Health Department requirements, and uses.
   D.   Storm Water. All storm water must be retained on site in accordance
with an engineered plan.
   E.   Minimum Lot Size/MunicipalWater Requirement. A ten (10) acre minimum
lot size is required for any lot not connected to an approved municipal
culinary water system.
   F.   Frontage Requirement. For adequate access by emergency vehicles and
local occupants the frontage of each lot shall be a minimum of one hundred
sixty-five (165) ft. and shall abut an official State, County or Town road
which has been paved under the direction of the unit government's having
jurisdiction and from which frontage gains vehicle and pedestrian access
exclusively, and entirely across the subject lot.
   G.   Setback Requirements. The following setback requirements are intended
to describe the amount of space required between buildings and property lines.
All buildings in this Light Industrial East Zone, including accessory
buildings, are required to maintain a minimum distance from property lines as
set forth below. Conditional uses may require greater setbacks so as to prevent
a nuisance or safety issue as determined by the Town Council:
      1.   Front Setbacks:
         a.   Front setbacks will be determined by the size of the building,
landscape, and parking requirements.
      2.   Sides and Rear Setbacks:
         a.   Minimum of twenty (20) feet from the parcel property line; and
         b.   Additional lot setbacks will be determined by fire and building
code.
      3.   Setback Variances. The Town Council, in consideration of a prior
recommendation by the
         a.   Planning Commission, may increase or decrease the setbacks if, in
its judgment, the need for change meets at least two (2) or more of the
following criteria:
         b.   Does not interfere with the use, enjoyment, and character of
adjacent properties;
         c.   The success of the business necessitates a specific setback,
proven by data or research;
         d.   Additional setback is not solely to provide space for parking
between the building and the street;
         e.   Topography or natural features make it impossible or
impracticable to place the building within the setback.
      4.   Setbacks for Accessory Structure:
         a.   Minimum of six (6) feet from the parcel property line;
         b.   Additional setbacks will be determined by fire and building code
         c.   Accessory structure square footage shall not exceed that of the
primary building; and
         d.   Accessory structures may require a building permit.
   H.   Building Height. No building or structure in this zone shall be over
two (2) stories with a thirty five (35) ft. maximum height.
   I.   Nuisance Ordinance/Code Compliance. The yards around buildings shall be
kept in compliance with the Town Nuisance Ordinance/Code.
   J.   Zone Development Standards. The following development standards shall
apply to the Light Industrial East Zone:
      1.   Review. The Planning Commission shall review the site plan and
building elevations;
      2.   Architectural Review. The Planning Commission shall confirm
compliance with architectural design standards for buildings and structures to
assure compliance with the general plan and with the town’s generally
applicable policies and regulations;
      3.   Screening Requirements. See
10.17.70.13.
      4.   Waste Storage. No solid waste, wrecked or abandoned vehicles, or
wrecked or abandoned equipment shall be stored in an open area. All wrecked or
abandoned vehicles or wrecked or abandoned equipment shall be kept fully
screened on all sides. Garbage dumpsters shall be located out of sight and away
from roads; and
      5.   Trash Storage. No trash, wrecked or abandoned vehicles or wrecked
equipment shall be stored in an open area. All such materials shall be kept
within a fully enclosed building. Garbage dumpsters shall be located out of
sight and away from roads.
   K.   Permitted Uses. The following land uses shall be permitted uses in the
Light Industrial East Zone. Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter
shall be prohibited:
      1.   Accessory Structure Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023.
      2.   Agriculture Industry.
      3.   Agriculture.
      4.   Autos, Trucks, RV Sales & Rental.
      5.   Automotive Body/Paint Repair Establishment.
      6.   Automotive Repair Establishment.
      7.   Auto Self-Serve Station.
      8.   Auto Service Station.
      9.   Convenience Store.
      10.   Farm Animals.
      11.   Farm Equipment Sales.
      12.   Fireworks Sales/Stands.
      13.   Gas Station.
      14.   Nursery.
      15.   Pawn Shops.
      16.   Public Services.
      17.   Public Utility Stations w/Sewer.
      18.   Repair Services, Small Appliance.
      19.   School - Private - Quasi Public.
      20.   Small Engine Repair.
      21.   Stable.
      22.   Telecommunications Facility less than Thirty Five (35) Feet in
Height.
      23.   Warehouse Storage Units, Commercial Only.
      24.   Welding Machine Shop.
   L.   Conditional Use. The following land uses are Conditional Use in the
Light Industrial East Zone. Standards for Conditional Use can be found in 
Chapter 17 of this Title:
      1.   Adult Oriented Businesses.
      2.   Caretaker Dwellings (Non-Farm Uses).   
      3.   Self-Storage and RV, Boat, Vehicle Storage.
      4.   Special Event Use.
      5   Temporary and Special Events Permits.
      6.   Other Requirements-Bounce Houses.
      7.   Industrial Outdoor Storage.
      8.   Solar Plant-Large. A Solar Plant-Large may be approved upon the
following conditions:
         a.   A maximum of three hundred (300) acres in the Light Industrial
East Zone can be used for solar power;
         b.   The Town shall have sixty (60) days after receiving an
application to complete the solar ordinance;
         c.   The Town shall not approve the building of a Solar Plant-Large
until the applicant can prove they have purchasers for the power they produce;
         d.   Solar Plant-Large uses shall abide by all applicable sections of
the Fairfield Town Code; and
         e.   Additional conditions can be found in section
10.17.100.I Solar Plant Large.
   M.   Junkyards are prohibited.
Rev. ord. 12122023-2, passed 12-12-2023.
Section 10.11.225. Commercial Overlay Zone.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the Commercial Overlay Zone is to provide for
commercial businesses, professional offices, and shopping centers that will
serve neighborhood, community and regional shopping demands, while also
providing other commercial opportunities which are reasonably separated or
buffered from residential development but allow residential development within
the Commercial Overlay Zone.
   B.   Prohibited Uses. Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter
shall be prohibited.
   C.   Commercial Overlay Area. Starting at the southwest boundary of
Fairfield Town running parallel with and adjoining to Highway 73, the width of
three hundred (300) feet on each adjacent side, starting at property owners
boundary line to the end point of Fairfield Towns’ northern boundary line. If a
parcel of land has been declared commercial it can no longer be used as
residential.
   E.   Area Requirements. Lots or parcels in the Commercial Overlay Zone shall
be of sufficient size to assure compliance with the Fairfield Town parking,
landscaping, utilities, site plan and other land development regulations that
may govern all or a portion of each project.
   F.   Master Site Plan Required. All developments in this zone are required
to submit a master site plan that includes maps and descriptions of
construction, landscaping, Health Department requirements, and uses.
   G.   Storm Water. All storm water must be retained on site in accordance
with an engineered plan.
   H.   Garbage. The yards around buildings shall be kept in compliance with
the Town Nuisance Ordinance.
   I.   Minimum Lot Size/Water Requirement. A ten (10) acre minimum lot size is
required for any lot not connected to an approved municipal culinary water
system.
   J.   Frontage Requirement. For adequate access by emergency vehicles and
local occupants the frontage of each lot shall be a minimum of one hundred and
sixty five (165) ft. and shall abut an official State, County or Fairfield Town
road which has been paved under the direction of the unit government having
jurisdiction and from which frontage gains vehicle and pedestrian access
exclusively and entirely across the subject lot.
   K.   Setback Requirements.
   The following setback requirements are intended to describe the amount of
space required between buildings and property lines. All buildings in this
Commercial Overlay Zone, including accessory buildings, are required to
maintain a minimum distance from property lines as set forth below. Conditional
uses may require greater setbacks so as to prevent a nuisance as determined by
the Town Council:
      1.   Front Setbacks. Front setbacks will be determined by the size of
building, landscape and parking requirements. The Town Council, in
consideration of a prior recommendation by the Planning Commission, may
increase or decrease this if, in its judgment, the changes comply with the
following:
         a.   Does not interfere with the use, enjoyment, and character of
adjacent properties;
         b.   The success of the business necessitates a specific setback,
proven by data or research;
         c.   Additional setback is not solely to provide space for parking
between the building and the street; and
         d.   Topography or natural features make it impossible or
impracticable to place the building within the setback.
      2.   Sides and Rear Setbacks:
         a.   Minimum of ten (10) feet; and
         b.   The Town Council, in consideration of a prior recommendation by
the Planning Commission, may increase or decrease this if, in its judgment, the
changes comply with the following:
"            i.   Does not interfere with the use, enjoyment, and character of
adjacent properties;
            ii.   The success of the business necessitates a specific setback,
proven by data or research;
            iii.   Additional setback is not solely to provide space for
parking between the building and the street; and
            iv.   Topography or natural features make it impossible or
impracticable to place the building within the setback.
      3.   Other General Setback Requirements. In addition to the specific
setback requirements noted above:
         a.   Nobuilding shall be closer than ten (10) feet to any neighboring
private road or driveway; and
         b.   Exceptions may be made for any part of the building that may
contain an approved drive-up window;
      4.   Setbacks for Accessory Building:
         a.   Minimum of six (6) feet from the parcel property line; and
         b.   Additional setbacks will be determined by fire and building code.
   L.   UDOT Requirements. Any building lot adjacent to any State road must
comply with all UDOT requirements. Applicants will contact the Region 3
permitting office to schedule a pre-application coordination meeting before
applying for a permit Additional information can be found online at
www.udot.utah.gov, ‘Doing Business’, UDOT Permits.
   M.   Building Height. No building in this zone shall be over two stories
with a maximum height restriction of forty five (45) feet.
   N..   Permitted Uses. The following land uses shall be permitted uses in the
Commercial Overlay Zone. Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter
shall be prohibited:
      1.   Accessory Structure Rev. ord. 03142023-2, passed 03-14-2023. 
      2.   Car Wash Facilities.
      3.   Auto Fueling Convenience Store.
      4.   Convenience Store; Sale of Goods.
      5.   Farm Equipment Sales.
      6.   Nursery.
      7.   Warehouse Space With Offices.
   O.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   Home Based Business.
10.11.250. Heavy Industrial Zone.
   A.    Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter shall be
prohibited.
   B.   Permitted Uses. None.
   C.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   One Sanitary Landfill shall be allowed in the Heavy Industrial Zone
subject to conditions set by the Town upon consideration of an application by
owners and operators.
         a.   The Town Council shall be considered the land use authority and
shall approve all uses and permits.
Section 10.11.260. Airpark Zone.
   A.   Any use not specifically permitted in this chapter shall be prohibited.
   B.   Purpose. Allow for a compatible mixture of aviation-related
recreational activities with aviation-related commercial and light industrial
uses and areas for residential that will enhance and encourage tourism and
recreational opportunities as well as to provide business services, public
safety platforms for Life Flight, firefighting, wildlife protections and
employment opportunities to Town residents.
   C.   Permitted Uses.
      1.   Aircraft Construction, Manufacturing, Service, and Sales.
      2.   Aircraft Parking.
      3.   Aircraft Repair and Paint.
      4.   Accessory Structure, unoccupied.
      5.   Condominium (non-residential) Facilities: i.e., Billeting Quarters.
      6.   “Condominium (non-residential) Facilities”, for purposes of this
section, shall be defined as “Separate spaces within a condominium project
owned by separate entities for the purposes of conducting business or providing
apartment space for short-term stays for persons while temporarily working or
attending school in the vicinity”.
      7.   Engine Repair.
      8.   Fueling Facilities for Aircraft.
      9.   Fuel Tanks.
      10.   Gated Areas.
      11.   Hangars for Aircraft.
      12.   Helipads.
      13.   Landing Strip.
      14.   Office/Business Parks.
      15.   Single Family Residential Hangar Home Dwellings.
      16.   Restaurants, Cafes, Diners.
      17.   Security Gates.
      18.   Storage Containers.
      19.   Tavern, Bar.
      20.   Taxiways and Taxi Lanes.
   D.   Conditional Uses. (see Title 10, Standards for Conditional Use)
      1.   Master Planned Development.
      2.   Special Events.
      3.   HOA or Through the Fence Agreement.
      3.   Self-Storage.
      4.   Caretaker Dwelling.
         a.   In addition to the Standards found in Title 10, Standards for
Conditional Use, the aggregate square footage of separate hangar storage
buildings owned and rented out by the company will count toward the minimum
square footage needed for the approval of a caretaker dwelling. Only One (1)
caretaker dwelling for the airport.
      5.   Crew Rest Facilities - as pertaining to this chapter, Crew Rest
Facilities (CRF) shall be defined as non-residential construction located
inside an aircraft hangar as an accessory to the storage of aircraft for the
rest, recuperation, and enjoyment of hangar occupants. Crew Rest Facilities are
allowed with the following conditions:
         a.   To provide for sanitation, crew rest, and to prevent the parking
of recreational vehicles around hangars, a CRF may include:
            i.   Kitchen facility;
            ii.   No more than one separate room to be utilized as a sleep or
office; iii. A restroom or wash facility; and iv. Shall not include more than a
total aggregate of three hundred (300) square feet.
         b.   Approval from the Fairfield Fire Authority;
         c.   Approval from the Utah County Health Department;
         d.   Shall be constructed and reside entirely within an Aircraft
Storage Hangar;
         e.   No person shall be permitted to stay longer than 72 hours or
three (3) consecutive nights;
         f.   Crew rest lofts shall not be offered for rent, subleased, or
utilized as an Airbnb.
      6.   Schools, Public and Private.
   E.   Runway(s). There shall be one primary improved landing surface not to
exceed FAA safety standards for design pertinent to the accepted critical
aircraft and shall be designed and limited to a small airport as defined and
detailed in the FAA Advisory Circular AC 150/5300-13B.
      1.   Design. The runway, taxiways, apron, and all other aircraft movement
areas shall be designed as detailed in the FAA Advisory Circular AC 150/5300-
13B https://www.faa.gov/documentLibrary/media/Advisory_Circular/150-5300-13B-
Airport-Design.pdf, including any subsequent changes or updates to such
circular. The runway, and all other aircraft movement areas, taxiways, and
apron shall be designed as per Federal Aviation Administration design
guidelines for small aircraft:
         a.   AC 150/5300-13B, Appendix G. Runway Design Standards Tables,
Table G-1, Runway Design Standards Matrix, A/B-I Small Aircraft.
         b.   AC 150/5300-13B, Appendix A. Aircraft Characteristics
      2.   Pavement Design. The runway weight bearing capacity shall not exceed
the standards of a Utility Runway with a single wheel bearing capacity not to
exceed 11,999 lbs as per FAA AC 150/5320-6G, Airport Pavement Design and
Evaluation.
      3.   Hours of Operation. The airport shall be open for daytime operations
only.
      4.   Airpark shall be open for VFR, Visual Flight Rules, only.
      5.   Operations. Airpark shall restrict operations to fewer than 10,000
operations per year.
   F.   Traffic Pattern. Appropriate airpark traffic patterns and altitudes to
avoid overflight of hazards, obstructions, or densely populated areas shall be
published for airpark residents and transient aircraft through proper FAA
publications.
   G.   Aircraft.. All aircraft operators shall check applicable published
NOTAMS and chart supplements prior to landing at the airpark. Safety
considerations must be taken for pavement strength, aircraft weight, runway
length, and safe stopping distance and takeoff roll.
   H.   Development. All developments in this zone shall be required to submit
a master site plan that includes maps and descriptions of construction,
landscaping, Health Department requirements, and uses. All stormwater must be
retained on-site in accordance with an engineered plan. Yards around buildings
shall be kept in compliance with the Fairfield Town Nuisance Ordinance.
      1.   Each lot developed for residential use shall include a hangar
suitable for the storage of an airworthy aircraft.
      2.   Each lot developed for residential use shall be limited to one (1)
aircraft hangar.
   I.   Landscaping. The landscaping requirements shall be determined by the
Master Plan Development and shall not have fewer area requirements than that
found in 10.19.00. In cases where aircraft requirements or FAA design standards
would conflict with certain landscaping elements, the Planning Commission may
approve requirements different than those listed in Title 10.19.00 if, in its
opinion, such alternate requirements provide for a safer and more efficient use
of the property.
   J.   Area Requirements. In order to encourage and preserve the rural
characteristics of Fairfield, development in the AP Zone allows for clustering
of residential lots with dedicated expanses of open space. The development
requirements shall be based upon a percentage of the area included in a Master
Planned Development.
      1.   Each residential lot shall be of sufficient size to assure
compliance with Fairfield Town parking, landscaping, utilities, Utah County
Health Department requirements, sanitation, building codes, and other land
development regulations that may govern all or a portion of each project.
      2.   Residential lots shall not encompass an area greater than twenty-two
(22) percent of the land located within the Master Planned Development. For
example, if the master plan were 150 acres, then the maximum residential units
would be 37. 150 x 25% = 37.5
      3.   Open space shall include a minimum of thirty (30) percent of the
land located within the Master Planned Development.
         a.   Open space areas shall be located on separate tract(s) and shall
be developed for passive or active recreational uses or set aside for farming,
ranching, or open space in general.
         b.   Public Access. Where feasible, open space parcels shall be
designed to be utilized by and made available for public uses.
         c.   Parking areas, private driveways, and yards within individual
lots shall not be included as open spaces.
      4.   Lot sizes other than for residential use shall be determined by the
size of the building and shall be of sufficient size to assure compliance with
Fairfield Town parking, landscaping, utilities, sanitation, building codes,
fire codes, and other land development regulations that may govern all or a
portion of each project.
   K.   Frontage.
      1.   The frontage of each lot in this zone shall be determined as set by
the Master Plan Development. Each lot shall have adequate access by emergency
vehicles.
      2.   Access to the interior of the Airpark. All dwellings, hangars,
commercial establishments, or other facilities occupied by humans shall gain
access from an official state, county, or town road which has been paved under
the direction of the unit of government having jurisdiction.
   L.   Setback Requirements. All buildings in the Airpark Zone are required to
maintain a minimum distance from property lines as set in the Master Planned
Development.
      1.   Setbacks in Master Plan will be determined by fire and building code
and will meet minimum standards.
   M.   Building Height. All Buildings in the Airpark Zone are required to
maintain a maximum building height as set in the Master Planned Development
Plan
   N.   Noise Abatement. Noise Abatements procedures shall be as follows:
      1.   Except when necessary for takeoff or landing, no person may operate
an aircraft below one thousand (1,000) feet above the highest obstacle within a
two thousand (2,000) foot horizontal distance of the aircraft over any
congested area;
      2.   Planes constantly circling over a Fairfield residential dwelling for
a period of five (5) minutes will be considered a nuisance, and the FAA will be
notified;
      3.   Preferred runway will be noticed as Runway 17:
         a.   When winds are calm, aircraft landing and departing will be
instructed to do so to the South; and
      4.   Aircraft departing to the North will be instructed to make their
crosswind turn as soon as practical and will avoid overflight of Fairfield
Town’s established residential area to the North of the Airpark.
   O.   Water Requirements.
      1.   All residential development within the Airpark Zone shall receive
culinary water service from a town-approved water system.
      2.   Required Water Rights, Water Sources, and Waterworks. The water
rights, water sources, and waterworks shall be designed and detailed in the
Master Plan Development and shall be sufficient to satisfy the existing and
future uses and occupants of all Airpark Zone Properties and shall abide by
Fairfield Town’s water ordinances found in Title
6.1.00 Public Utilities.
Section 10.11.275. Airpark Overlay Zone.
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The Airpark Overlay Zone (APO) is created to
promote the public health and safety in the vicinity of the Airpark Zone and
the Town of Fairfield by minimizing exposure to crash hazards and high noise
levels generated by Airpark operations, by encouraging future development which
is compatible with the continued operation of the Airpark and to protect
operating aircraft and thereby town residents from the hazards of obstructions
in the flight path and runway approach zones.
   B.   Compliance. The use of land and buildings must be in compliance with
the base zoning area in addition to the regulations set forth in the APO. Note:
The provisions of the APO, setback standards, or other provisions of the Code
may result in a lesser height than those listed in the base zoning area.
   C.   Vicinity. The APO area is a horizontal plane, the perimeter of which is
constructed by swinging arcs of five thousand (5,000) feet from the center of
each end of the primary surface of the northern and the southern ends of the
existing paved runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to
those arcs. (Map 1)
   D.   Traffic Pattern Procedures and Altitudes. While adhering to Federal
Aviation Regulations as pertaining to traffic patterns and to safety, aircraft
will approach the airpark from the East with a traffic pattern altitude of
eight hundred (800) feet above the existing Airpark elevation. Aircraft will
avoid overflight, whenever feasible, of the residential areas of the Town of
Fairfield and of the firework storage facility to the West. (Map 2)
   E.   Protection of Airspace. In an effort to protect persons and property
located within the APO, no use may be made of land or water within the APO in
such a manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or
radio communication between the Airpark and aircraft, making it difficult for
pilots to use the Airpark, impair visibility in the vicinity of the Airpark,
create bird strike hazards, or otherwise materially endanger or interfere with
the landing, take off, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the Airpark;
such as buildings with reflective glass or any type of reflective/glare
producing exterior, high intensity recreation type lights, smoke, antennas,
microwave towers, or high tension transmission lines.
   F.   No objects including, structures, outcroppings, poles, towers or
buildings shall be permitted to penetrate the airspace within the APO as
described below: (Map 3)
      1.   Runway Protection Zone – A trapezoidal area beginning at a setback
of fifteen (15) feet from West Desert Airpark’s property line and centered
longitudinally and extending from the runways’ centerlines outward one thousand
(1,000) feet at a slope of three (3) feet horizontally for each foot vertically
(3:1) with a beginning width of fifty (50) feet from the centerline of each
runway out to five hundred (500) feet wide on each side. The existing mounds
Runway Protection Zone should maintain or decrease current altitudes with no
future increase in elevation. The landfill’s current buildup at the southern
end of the runway currently restricts approximately three hundred (300) feet of
runway to be usable only for departing traffic (displaced threshold);
      2.   Transitional Surface – A surface extending outward and upward at
right angles to the runway;
      3.   Transitional Surface – A surface extending outward and upward at
right angles to the runway surface centerline at a slope of (3:1) from the
sides of the runway beginning on each side and elevation of the runway surface
then extending upward to a height of one hundred fifty (150) feet above the
airport elevation; and
      4.   Horizontal Surface – A horizontal plane one hundred fifty (150) feet
above the established Airpark elevation, the perimeter of which, in plan,
coincides with the perimeter of the APO.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.png]
 
Chapter 15.
Subdivisions.
   Section
10.15.10.   General Provisions.
   Section
10.15.20.   Subdivision.
   Section
10.15.30.   Exemptions from Plat Requirements.
   Section
10.15.40.   Private Property Disputes.
   Section
10.15.50.   Fees and Charges.
   Section
10.15.60.   Prohibited Acts.
   Section
10.15.70.   Enforcement.
   Section
10.15.80.   Issuing Licenses and Permits.
   Section
10.15.90.   Withholding Permits.
   Section
10.15.100.   Town Approval for Building.
   10.15.110.   Penalties.
   Section
10.15.120.   Types of Subdivisions.
   Section
10.15.130.   Flag Lots.
   Section
10.15.140.   Subdivision Process.
   Section
10.15.150.   Concept Meeting.
   Section
10.15.160.   Preliminary Subdivision Plat Requirements.
   Section
10.15.170.   Final Plat.
   Section
10.15.180.   Roads and Transportation Patterns and Connectivity Standards.
   Section
10.15.190.   Recordation Of Plats.
   Section
10.15.200.   Undeveloped Subdivisions.
   Section
10.15.210.   Mortgage Lot Subdivisions and Regulations.
   Section
10.15.220.   Developed Subdivisions.
   Section
10.15.230.   Lot Line Adjustment.
   Section
10.15.240.   When an Applicant is Entitled to Approval of an Application.
   Section
10.15.250. Town Imposed Requirements and Exactions on Application Approval.
   Section
10.15.260.   Appeal to Town Council.
   Section
10.15.270.   Severability.
Section 10.15.10. General Provisions.
   A.   Short Title. This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
Fairfield Town Subdivision Code and may be identified within this document and
other documents as “the Ordinance,“Subdivision Ordinance”, “the Code” or
“Subdivision Code”, or “Land Use Ordinance”. This Chapter shall be identified
as part of a component of the Fairfield Town Land Use Code, as defined by Title
10 Chapter (9a) of the Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended.
   B.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose and intent of this Subdivision Code is
to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the public, and to provide
adequate and effective transportation and public utility systems. The Town
further desires to provide for the proper design and construction of the
transportation system as indicated by the Roads Master Plan. This Subdivision
Code sets forth the procedures for the subdivision and resubdivision of land to
review for the use of proper legal descriptions, surveying, and monumenting of
subdivided land.
   C.   This Subdivision Code shall be used by the subdivider to divide land
within the Town, by the staff as criteria for the review of subdivision plats,
and by the Town Council and the Planning Commission in judging the merits of
plats submitted for approval. Not all criteria apply to all plats and this
Subdivision Code may be amended from time to time. However, once a plat has
been formally accepted for review it shall be judged against the Subdivision
Code existing at the time of the application acceptance date.
   D.   All plats and plans submitted shall be in a form which satisfies this
Subdivision Code and all other applicable ordinances, regulations, codes and
rules.
   E.   In the event any requirement of this Subdivision Code conflicts with
any other requirement, ordinance, regulation, restriction or limitation, the
more restrictive requirement shall apply.
   F.   All subdivisions are required to be platted.
   G.   Growth Management. Fairfield Town has a Growth Management Policy. see
Title
9.5.00.
   H.   Enactment. The Fairfield Town Council (hereinafter “Council”) adopts
this Code pursuant to all authorities and provisions of Utah and Federal
statutory laws, and common law as applicable. This Code constitutes a part of
the Fairfield Town’s Land Use Code.
   I.   Applicability and Authority. Upon its adoption by the Fairfield Town
Council this Code shall govern and apply to the subdivision and platting of all
lands lying within the municipal boundaries of Fairfield Town, Utah
(hereinafter “the Town”).
Section 10.15.20. Subdivision.
   A.   For the purpose of this Chapter, “Subdivision” includes the following:
      1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   All divisions of land for residential and nonresidential uses,
including land used, or to be used, for commercial, agricultural, and
industrial purposes.
   B.   For the purpose of this code, subdivision does NOT include the
following:
      1.   A bonafide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable Land
Use code;
      2.   A recorded agreement between the owners of adjoining unsubdivided
property adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not violate applicable Land Use Code; or
         c.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
            i.   Revising the legal description of more than one (1) contiguous
unsubdivided parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all
such parcels of property; or
            ii.   Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided, if the joiner does not violate
applicable Land Use Ordinances.
      3.   A recorded agreement between the owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new building lot or housing unit will result from the
adjustment; and
         b.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable Land Use Code.
      4.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a “subdivision” as to
the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the unsubdivided parcel to this
chapter.
Section 10.15.30. Exemptions from Plat Requirements.
   A.   A lot or parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is
exempt from the plat requirements if the lot or parcel:
      1.   Qualifies as land in agricultural use;
      2.   Meets the minimum size requirement of applicable land use
ordinances; and
      3.   Is not used and will not be used for any non agricultural purpose.
   B.   The boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted under subsection (A)
shall be graphically illustrated on a record of survey map that, after
receiving the same approvals as are required for a plat, shall be recorded with
the county recorder.
   C.   If a lot or parcel exempted under subsection (A)(1) is used for a non
agricultural purpose, the Town Council shall require the lot or parcel to
comply with the requirements of the subdivision code.
   D.   Documents recorded in the county recorder's office that divide property
by a “metes and bounds” description do not create an approved subdivision
allowed by this part unless the Town’s land use authority's certificate of
written approval required by subsection (A) is attached to the document. The
absence of the certificate or written approval required by subsection (A) does
not affect the validity of a recorded document.
   E.   A document which does not meet the requirements of subsection (A) may
be corrected by the recording of an affidavit to which the required certificate
or written approval is attached in accordance with section 57-3-106, Utah Code
annotated,1953 as amended.
Section 10.15.40. Private Property Disputes.
   Jurisdiction of Private Property Disputes. Fairfield Town does not have
jurisdiction to resolve private property issues. Fairfield Town does not
negotiate agreements between non-town utility providers or developers.
Section 10.15.50. Fees and Charges.
   A.   Fees and Charges shall be set by Resolution. The Council, by
resolution, shall establish all necessary fees and charges payable for
subdivision application processing, application reviews, inspection services,
and any additional services provided by the Town or required of this chapter.
Such fees and charges may be amended from time to time, as considered necessary
by the Council.
see Fairfield Fee Schedule.
   B.   No application or plat shall be put on any agenda until all required
fees are paid in full.
Section 10.15.60. Prohibited Acts.
   A.   Recording any unapproved subdivision is prohibited.  
   B.   No single parcel can be divided into two or more smaller parcels
without complying with this chapter. Any violation of these requirements
constitutes a criminal offense punishable as a misdemeanor.
   C.   The County Recorder is required by law to record all properly prepared
documents. Recording of a subdivision of property not in compliance with this
chapter will result in a recording of non-compliance against the property.
   D.   Any parcel created as the result of an improper division or subdivision
of property will be prohibited from any further development, sale, exchange or
offer to sell or exchange.  
   E.   An owner of any land located in a subdivision who transfers or sells
any land in that subdivision before a final plat of the subdivision has been
approved and recorded in the Office of the Utah County Recorder, as required
and provided by this Ordinance/Code, is guilty of a violation of this
Ordinance/Code, for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
Section 10.15.70. Enforcement.
   A.   Enforcement by the Town and Owners of Real Estate. The Town may take
all actions allowed under the law to ensure compliance and enforcement of this
chapter. Failure of the Town to enforce any provision or seek remedies to any
violation of this code shall not legalize any such violation.
   B.   The Town, or any adversely affected owner of real estate within the
Town in which violations of this code are occurring, or are about to occur,
may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may institute:
      1.   Injunctions, Mandamus, Abatement, or any other appropriate actions;
or
      2.   Proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove the unlawful
building, use, or act.
   C.   As provided by the Utah State Code, the Town need only establish a
violation of this Code to obtain an injunction.
   D.   The Town may bring an action against a property owner to require that
the property conform and comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   An action brought by the Town against a property owner, and authorized
by this chapter, may include an injunction, abatement, merger of title, or any
other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, or abate the
violation of this chapter.
Section 10.15.80. Issuing of Licenses and Permits.
   From the effective date of this Ordinance/Code, no license or permit,
including the issuance of any building permit for the construction, alteration,
or modification of any building or structure, shall be issued by the Town
unless such permit or license complies with the requirements and provisions of
this Code/Ordinance, including a determination that the lot or parcel, proposed
for the license or permit, is a legal lot created pursuant to the provisions of
this Ordinance/Code, or prior enactments, or is a legal lot of record. Any
approval issued in conflict with the provisions and requirements of this Code
shall be void. An exception may be made for non conforming lots of records.
Section 10.15.90. Withholding Permits.
   The Town may enforce this Ordinance/Code by withholding building permits.
Section 10.15.100. Town Approval for Building.
   The approval of a subdivision does not constitute a building permit. It is
unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, or change the use of any
building or other structure within the Town without an approved building
permit, unless such building is exempt, as provided by the building codes of
the Town.
Section 10.15.120. Types of Subdivisions.
   A.   The following are types of subdivisions that are considered by this
chapter:
      1.   Undeveloped Subdivision; 
      2.   Mortgage/Farm Preservation Subdivision; and
      3.   Developed Subdivision.
Section 10.15.130. Flag Lots.
   Flags lots are not allowed in Fairfield Town.
Section 10.15.140. Subdivision Process.
   Minimum Submittal Requirements. The submittal requirements are not
inclusive. Additional requirements can be found under each type of development.
   A.   Subdivision Application Procedures. 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44.png]
 
Section 10.15.150. Concept Meeting.
   Fairfield Town recommends any person wishing to subdivide in the Town of
Fairfield to schedule a concept meeting with the Planning Commission prior to
preparing engineered plats, charts or plans.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the concept meeting is to provide a conceptual
layout of proposed lots, including minimum development requirements in the
proposed zoning district, including lot frontage, lot width and yard
requirements. Each person who proposes to subdivide land which is located in
whole or in part in the Town shall confer with the Planning Commission. This
should be done before preparing any plats, charts or plans in order to become
familiar with the Towns subdivision requirements. This meeting will confirm
that the proposal meets the existing master plan for the zone in which the
proposed subdivision lies and will allow for discussion of the proposed plan of
development.
   B.   Concept Plan Procedure:
      1.   Submit application to Fairfield Town (www.fairfieldtown.org);
      2.   Upload concept plan;
      3.   Submittal must be submitted at least fourteen (14) days prior to the
Planning Commission regular meeting;
      4.   Submittal Requirements for Concept Plan. A concept plan drawn on a
sheet of paper no less than 8 ½” x 11” showing current roads, water lines,
lots, lot sizes, road frontage, road dedication, utilities, fire hydrants,
existing buildings and fences, ditches, and any other objects or rights of way
that may be on the property;
      5.   After the application has been made, the building department will
add the application to the next available planning and zoning agenda and notify
the applicant of the date and time;
      6.   The Town staff will notify all departments seven (7) days prior to
said meeting;
      7.   If needed, a separate meeting with all department heads may be
required;
      8.   After the concept meeting the Planning Commission shall present the
plan to the Town Council for their input; and
      9.   The applicant shall file with Fairfield Town, an application for
approval of a preliminary plat if they elect to proceed.
Section 10.15.160. Preliminary Subdivision Plat Requirements.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the preliminary plat is to allow for review of
the proposed subdivision to determine whether it will meet the design standards
contained in this Subdivision Code, to determine the issues to be addressed,
and to give interested parties an opportunity to examine and comment on the
proposed subdivision. Steps to complete the application process are as follows:
      1.   Submit application to Fairfield Town (www.fairfieldtown.org);
      2.   Upload preliminary plan along with any other documents at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the Planning Commission regular meeting. (PDF
ONLY);
      3.   Pay all preliminary development plan application fees in full prior
to application being assigned to the building department;
      4.   The building department will notify all departments seven (7) days
prior to the regular Planning Commission meeting;
      5.   If needed, a separate meeting with all department heads may be
required;
      6.   After review by the Planning Commission and Fairfield Town
department heads, the Planning Commission will approve or deny application;
      7.   The Planning Commission will present the application to the Town
Council for approval;
      8.   Fairfield Town Council will approve, approve with changes, make
recommendations or deny the application;
      9.   Once Fairfield Town Council approves the preliminary plat, a final
plat application may be submitted;
      10.   Time Limitation for final plat approval. Approval of the
preliminary plat by the Town Council shall be valid for a maximum period of
twelve (12) months; and
      11.   For all proposed subdivisions, the approval of a Preliminary
Subdivision Application by the Council shall not constitute final approval of
the subdivision by the Town.
   B.   The Submittal Requirements Are Not Inclusive. Additional information
can be found under each type of development.
   C.   General Submittal Requirement Package For Preliminary Plat. The general
submittal requirement package shall contain a submittal of the development
application in a form which complies with the following:
      1.   The preliminary development plan application provided by the Town,
shall be completed, signed and uploaded to the Town by the property owner(s) as
identified on the property assessment rolls of Utah County, or authorized agent
of the owners. The preliminary development plan application fee, as established
by a resolution of the Council, shall be paid by the applicant;
      2.   A copy of the Record of Survey for the original parcel filed with
the Utah County Surveyor’s office;
      3.   Tax clearance for land must be proven;
      4.   Preliminary Plat. A preliminary plat, prepared by a licensed land
surveyor, or engineer, shall be provided. The preliminary plat shall be drawn
to a scale not smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), and
shall include the following:
         a.   Project name and address; North point, scale, date and type of
subdivision;
         b.   A copy of the coordinate sheet which shall show the following:
            i.   The courses and distance of the proposed development/
subdivision boundary and the error of closure; and
            ii.   The area of the lot in square feet and acres, and the error
of closure for each lot with the plat;
         c.   All open spaces shall be created and designated in a manner to
ensure they will perpetually remain as open spaces. Roads shall be dedicated to
and controlled by the Town unless and until vacated;
         d.   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of developer, engineer,
and current and prospective owners;
         e.   Numbers of all lots;
         f.   Nearest section corner tie, township(s) and range(s);
         g.   Acreage, property dimensions, project perimeter, legal
description;
         h.   All proposed phases of the development, numbered and defined,
with approximate timetable for development;
         i.   Existing infrastructure including all fire hydrants, sewer, water
and all other utilities, including but not limited to electricity, natural gas,
telephone, telecommunication;
         j.   Proposed layout of all public roads, their proposed addresses,
and grades shall abide by the Fairfield Town Road Ordinance and Master
Transportation Plan;
         k.   Location and elevation drawings of existing and proposed
buildings, signs, dumpster(s) propane tank(s) and utility enclosures, fences
and other structures;
          l.   Grading plans, including all proposed changes in grade;
         m.   All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than allowed
to remain as unusable parcels;
          n.   Any additional information which the Planning Commission may
reasonably require in a specific instance;
         o.   Any additional information which may be required by the type of
subdivision; and
         p.   Existing fences in relation to actual property lines.
   D.   The Town Council may, at their discretion, elect to give authority for
final plat approval to the Planning Commission if:
      1.   The subdivision is simplistic in nature;
      2.   Road dedications are along existing streets; and
      3.   No other requirements were made by the Town Council for approval of
the preliminary plat.
Section 10.15.170. Final Plat.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the final plat is to review the proposed
subdivision for proper engineering and subdivision design, to ensure real
estate interests are properly represented, to provide for dedication of lands
required for public use and for the construction of public improvements, and
for conformance with the preliminary plat.
   B.   Final Plat Procedure:
      1.   Submit Application to Fairfield town.(www.fairfieldtown.org);
      2.   Upload final plat along with any other documentation at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the Planning Commissions’ regular meeting. (PDF
ONLY);
      3.   All final development application fees shall be paid in full prior
to application being assigned to the building department;
      4.   The building department will notify all departments seven (7) days
prior to said meeting;
      5.   If needed, a separate meeting with all department heads may be
required;
      6.   After review by the Planning Commission and Fairfield Town
department heads, the Planning Commission will present the final plat to the
Town Council for approval; and
      7.   The Fairfield Town Council will approve, approve with changes, make
recommendations or deny the final plat.
   C.   Submittal Requirements for Final Plat. Final development plans are
reviewed by the Planning Commission and the Town Council in conjunction with
the review of the final plat associated with the subdivision . All final
development plan applications, filed with the city, are required to provide the
following application information:
      1.   A final plat application, provided by the Town, completed and signed
by the owners as identified on the property assessment rolls of Utah County, or
authorized agent of the owner(s),of the land to be developed. The final
development plan application shall be accompanied by the final development
application fee, as established by a resolution of the Council;
      2.   Endorsement on the final plat by every person having a security
interest in the subdivision property subordinating their liens to all
covenants, servitudes and easements imposed on the property;
      3.   The location of all monuments erected, corners and other points
established in the field. The material of which the monuments, corners or other
points are made shall be noted. Bearings shall be shown to the nearest second,
lengths to the nearest hundredth of a foot and areas to the nearest hundredth
of an acre;
      4.   The owner's certificate of dedication, including the dedication of
any public ways or spaces. This certificate shall be signed, dated and
notarized. The owner's certificate shall include a reference to any covenants
that may be declared and blanks where the county recorder may enter the book
and page number of their recording;
      5.   A legal description of the subdivision boundaries;
      6.   Title insurance on all dedications;
      7.   If the final plat is filed with the Town more than ninety (90) days
from the date the preliminary application is approved by the Town Council, a
title report, no older than thirty (30) days, shall be provided as part of the
final development application;
      8.   Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures of the Mayor,
Town Recorder, Planning Commission Chair and Town Engineer/Surveyor and / or
Town attorney;
      9.   Final design and construction drawings for all proposed or required
public improvements, including the profiles and cross sections of all existing
and proposed streets;
      10.   Any additional information which is required by the type of
subdivision shall be included;
      11.   Any other information required by the Planning Commission, Town
Engineer, Building Department, Fire Department, or Town Council;
      12.   An original copy of any proposed deed restrictions in final form
and signed by all of the owners of any interest in the subdivision who signs
the final subdivision map. This copy shall be acknowledged by a Notary Public
and shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder along with the final
plat. (Note for Planning Commission consideration: The Town Attorney requires a
copy of the CCRs and reviews them to ensure that they meet legal requirements);
      13.   Final Plat. After Town Council approval, a final plat shall be
prepared by a licensed land surveyor, conforming to current surveying practices
and in a form acceptable to the Utah County Recorder for recordation and shall
include the following:
         a.   The final plat shall be prepared in permanent ink;
         b.   All streets shall be numbered using the Town address grid;
         c.   All required certificates shall appear on a single sheet (along
with the index and vicinity map);
         d.   The final plat shall be drawn on reproducible Mylar;
         e.   A minimum of one (1), twenty-four inch by thirty-six (24 x 36)
inch size Mylar, two (2) eleven by seventeen (11 x 17) inch size paper copies,
and a digital copy in a PDF format shall be presented to the Town, as a
requirement of the final plat application;
         f.   The final plat shall contain the same information as required by
Title
10.15.150. and shall include any revisions or additions, as required by the
Planning Commission, building heads, and/or Town Council, as part of the
preliminary plat approval;
         g.   Title Block Required. A title block is required. It shall be
placed in the lower right hand corner of the Plat showing:
            i.   Proposed name or designation of the subdivision that is
distinct from any other plat already recorded in the Office of the Utah County
Recorder;
            ii.   Name and address of the owner of record and the name, address
and license number of the licensed surveyor or engineer responsible for
preparing the Preliminary Plat; and
             iii.   Date of preparation of the Preliminary Plat, and all
revision dates, as applicable.
         h.   Signature Block Required showing:
            i.   Surveyor's certificate;
            ii.   Owner's property dedication;
            iii.   Acknowledgments by owner to include corporate, partnership,
limited liability company or trust acknowledgment, as applicable;
            iv.   Agreements, as applicable;
            v.   County recorder's number;
            vi.   Mayor's approval and acceptance;
            vii.   Planning chairperson's approval and acceptance;
            viii.   Town recorder;
            ix.   Town engineer/surveyor; and
            x.   Town attorney when requested by Town Council.
   D.   Clear Title. All dedications to Fairfield must be clear of all liens
and encumbrances.
   E.   Approval Authority. The Town Council is identified and authorized as
the approval authority for the final plat application ensuring compliance with
all applicable requirements of this Chapter. The Mayor may approve the Final
Plat or deny the final plat, accompanied by findings of Title 10.15.230.
   F.   Legal Review. The Town attorney will review all legally binding
documents including but not limited to deed restrictions, developer agreements,
and/or any other binding documents.
   G.   Methods Approved By The Town Council To Ensure All Improvements Are
Made. To ensure that all improvements to the subdivision are made, the Town
shall ask for one of the following:
      1.   Bond;
      2.   Guaranteed Letter of Credit; or
      3.   Other means approved by the Town Council.
Section 10.15.180. Roads and Transportation Patterns and Connectivity
Standards.
   A.   Purpose. This section is intended to ensure that the local road system
is well designed with regard to safety, efficiency, and convenience for
pedestrians, bicycles, automobiles, and other transportation modes.
   B.   General Standards. The road and transportation system of any proposed
development shall be designed to serve all modes of transportation that will
use the system (including, but not limited to cars, trucks, buses, bicycles,
pedestrians, and emergency vehicles). The system shall provide more than one
direct connection to and between local destinations such as parks, schools, and
shopping. Roads must provide connections within the subdivision and to
adjoining properties to blend developments together and to disperse traffic.
   C.   Distribution of Local Traffic Network. All subdivision plats shall
include a local road system that will allow access to and from the proposed
subdivision, as well as access to all existing and future adjacent development,
preferably from at least two roads.
   D.   Utilization and Provision of Local Road Connections to and from
Adjacent Developments and Vacant Parcels. All plats shall incorporate and
continue all roads stubbed to the boundary of the property by previously
approved plats or existing development or as determined by the Planning
Commission or Town Engineer. All plats shall provide for future public road
connections to adjacent vacant parcels. The Planning Commission shall update
the Road Master Plan as plats are approved.
   E.   Roads, Access and Transportation. All subdivision designs shall conform
to the following requirements:
      1.   The subdivision design shall conform to the Fairfield Road Master
Plan or any portion thereof and to any future road rights-of-way designated by
the Town Engineer;
      2.   All lots in a subdivision shall have frontage on a public road;
      3.   All lots or tracts shall have access to a public road; and
      4.   All public rights-of-way and streets shall align and unite with all
existing roads or right of ways.
   F.   The circulation pattern for the subdivision shall be designed to take
advantage of the topography of the site, shall function in a logical manner,
and shall be designed to accommodate the circulation demands of the proposed
development based on the proposed land uses and external demands to be placed
on the land. The circulation system should also take into account, when
appropriate, various modes of transportation (e.g. pedestrian, bicycles, buses,
etc.) Access must be adequate for service and emergency vehicles as determined
by the Fire Marshal.
   G.   Private Streets and Roadways. see Title
6.3.150. (H).
   H.   Pedestrian, bicycle, and equestrian trail rights-of-way, and open space
access rights-of-way, or appropriate easements, shall be dedicated when they
are required. Additional rights-of-way or easements may be required when the
Planning Commission or Town Council determines the paths are necessary for
access to parks, schools, shopping areas, or other public facilities.
   I.   Access. Access between the subdivision and Utah State Highways shall
conform to the Utah State Highway Access Code.
   J.   Cul-De-Sacs. see Title
6.3.160. (E).
   K.   Partial Roads. Partial roads, under certain conditions, may be approved
by the Fairfield Town Council.
   L.   Road Standards. All roads must conform to Fairfield Roads Standards.
see Title
6.3.160.
   M.   Non Paved Roads. Non paved roads shall require the fire marshal's
approval and signature.
Section 10.15.190. Recordation Of Plats.
   A.   Plat Signing. The Mayor, Town Recorder, Planning Commission
Chairperson,Town Engineer/Surveyor and/or Town Attorney shall sign the
reproducible mylar original of the final subdivision plat.
   B.   Filing and Recordation. It shall be the responsibility of the Town of
Fairfield to file the final plat with the county recorder's office.
Simultaneously, with the filing of the final plat, the Mayor or designee shall
record the development agreement, the declarations of covenants, conditions and
restrictions, articles of incorporation for any homeowners' association and the
evidence of dedication, together with such legal documents as shall be required
by the Town’s attorney to be recorded.
   C.   Recordation Fees. The payment of all fees associated with recording
will be the responsibility of the applicant.
   D.   Vacation or Change of Plats. A petition to vacate, alter or amend an
entire plat, a portion of a plat, or a street or lot contained in a plat, must
re-submit the plat and follow the Fairfield subdivision process as described in
this chapter.
Section 10.15.200. Undeveloped Subdivisions.
Undeveloped/Unimproved Subdivisions must follow the Fairfield subdivision
process as described in this chapter.
   A.   Each of the lots within the subdivision must be located entirely within
the same zone.
   B.   Fairfield Town Council may consider roads as part of the lot size in
zones greater than one (1) acre based on recommendations by the Planning
Commission.
   C.   Water Requirements:
      1.   Comply with Fairfield Water Code.   Private water systems and the
use of private wells to provide municipal water services are not allowed except
at the discretion of the Town Council. see Fairfield Water Code, see Title 6;
and
      2.   Subdivisions within an AR-1 zone will need to bring the Fairfield
water line to within nine hundred fifty feet (950) of the furthest lot.
   D.   Building lots in the approved subdivision may be sold after the final
plat has been recorded. The lots, however, shall have recorded restrictions
placed upon them stating that building permits will not be issued for any lot
until improvements, as specified in Title
9.1.30. are complete. 
   E.   All lots must meet the frontage requirement for the zone they are
located in.
   F.   All roads and road dedications must meet the road standards required
for the zone or traffic volume.    
   G.   If the undeveloped/unimproved lot is to be developed, each lot must
meet current zoning standards. Development must meet the requirements of all
Fairfield Code/Ordinances regarding lighting, landscaping, signs, water, roads,
environmental regulations and any other code that is applicable to the
development before any building permit is granted.
Section 10.15.210. Mortgage Lot Subdivision and Regulations.
   A.   Mortgage Lot Subdivision must follow the Fairfield subdivision process
as described in this chapter.
   B.   Mortgage Lot Subdivisions cannot contain more than a total of two (2)
lots.
   C.   A Mortgage Lot Subdivision may be created in a zone that allows for
construction of a residence on a parcel that is five acres or larger.
   D.   The combined lots must be 5 acres or larger.
   E.   The primary or mortgage lot must meet all road standards required for
that particular zone.
   F.   The primary or mortgage lot must meet roads, setbacks, and frontage
standards for the 5 acre zone.
   G.   A deed restriction must be placed and recorded on each of the two (2)
resulting parcels requiring that both parcels remain in the same name,
including after a transfer, and that the unencumbered lot shall remain
unimproved.
   H.   The plat for the Mortgage Lot Subdivision must show “SUBDIVISION FOR
THE PURPOSE OF MORTGAGE”.
Section 10.15.220. Developed Subdivisions.
   A.   Developed/improved lot developments must follow the Fairfield
subdivision process as described in this chapter.
   B.   All roads and road dedications must meet the road standards required
for the zone or traffic volume.
   C.   Water Requirements:
      1.   Comply with Fairfield Water Code;
Title 6 Chapter 1.
   D.   The Fairfield Town Council may consider roads as part of the lot size
based on a Master Plan that fits within the Town’s General Plan with the
Planning Commissions’ recommendation.
   E.   All of the lots must meet the frontage requirement for the zone they
are located in.
   F.   Must comply with Fairfield Town Growth Management Ordinance. see Title
9.5.00.
   G.   The Town Council may require some method to ensure that the developer
will provide all the required improvements after the plat has been approved.
Following are three (3) methods of ensuring that the required improvements are
completed:
      1.   Developer posting a performance bond of one hundred twenty-five
percent (125%) to be determined by the town engineer;
      2.   A covenant and agreement contract entered into by the subdivider and
the Town placing a lien on the property to guarantee the installation of the
required improvements; and
      3.   Depositing funds in an escrow account to ensure completion.
   H.   Utah County septic approval.
   I.   Soil Testing Report - See Title 5.
   J.   Additional requirements to plat. Plat requirements for a Fairfield Town
building permit include but are not limited to:
      1.   Existing and proposed infrastructure including fire hydrants, water
lines, utilities; and
      2.   Any other information the Planning Commission, or Town Council may
require.
Section 10.15.230. Lot Line Adjustment.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of a lot line adjustment plat is to provide for an
administrative procedure by which one or more lots or tract lines may be moved
or removed. It is not intended for adjusting large numbers of lot lines. The
Planning Commission shall have the discretion to determine whether a lot line
adjustment is the proper process, subject to the criteria and standards of this
chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.png]
 
   B.   Conditions Required for Lot Line Adjustment. In order to complete the
lot line adjustment process, all of the following conditions must be met and
meet all applicable requirements outlined in Utah State Code 10-9a-523.:
      1.   All real property involved must be a part of an existing, recorded
survey;
      2.   Noadditional block, lot, or tract may be created by the adjustment;
      3.   The areas and/or frontages of the blocks, lots, or tracts involved
in the lot line adjustment shall not be reduced to less than the minimum
required by the Fairfield Town Zoning Code;
      4.   The lot line adjustment must not conflict with any other ordinances,
regulations, codes, rules or laws;
      5.   The lot line adjustment plat must be prepared and signed by a
Professional Land Surveyor licensed to practice in the State of Utah; and
      6.   The Fairfield Planning Commission has the authority to approve or
deny a lot line adjustment in a subdivision as allowed in Utah State Code 10-
9a-523.
Section 10.15.240. When an Applicant is Entitled to Approval of an Application.
   A.   Exceptions. The Town may not impose unexpressed requirements:
      1.   The Town is required to comply with the requirements of this
chapter. An applicant is entitled to the approval of an application, required
by this chapter, if such application conforms to the requirements of this
chapter and the Town’s other land use ordinances, codes, land use maps, and
zoning codes as applicable, and in effect at the time when the Town of
Fairfield determines the application to be complete and all fees have been
paid, unless:
         a.   The Land Use Authority, on the record, finds that a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
application; or
         b.   The Town has formally initiated proceedings to amend its Land Use
Code in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as submitted
and in the manner provided by local code and before the application is
submitted; and
         c.   The Town shall process an application without regard to
proceedings initiated to amend the Town’s Land Use Code if:
            i.   One hundred and eighty (180) calendar days have passed since
the proceedings were initiated; and
            ii.   The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that
prohibits approval of the application as submitted.
      2.   The Final Plat, as required,conforms fully to the requirements of
this Ordinance, and the Town’s other Land Use Code, including the Zoning Code,
and has been approved by the Planning Commission and Town Council.
      3.   The Town shall be bound by the terms and standards of this chapter,
and other land use codes and ordinances, as applicable, and shall comply with
all mandatory requirements and provisions of such code or ordinance.
       4.   The Town shall process and render a decision on each application
required by this chapter within sixty five (65) days.
10.15.250. Town Imposed Requirements and Exactions on Application Approval.
   A.   Requirements. The Town shall not impose any requirement(s) or exaction
(s) on any approval required by this chapter unless:
      1.   An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest
and each requirement or exaction; and
      2.   Each requirement or exaction is roughly proportional, both in nature
and in extent, to the impact of the proposed subdivision.
Section 10.15.260. Appeal to Town Council.
   A.   Notice Of Appeal. The applicant for a subdivision approval may appeal
the disapproval of any concept plan, preliminary or final subdivision plat by
the Planning Commission by filing a notice of appeal with the Town Council,
with a copy to the Planning Commission, no later than ten (10) days after the
date when the Planning Commission disapproved the concept plan, preliminary or
final subdivision plat. The notice of appeal shall set forth in clear and
concise fashion the basis for the appeal.
   B.   Hearing. The appeal shall be considered at the next regularly scheduled
public meeting of the Town Council, subject to statutory noticing requirements,
at which time the Town Council may affirm, affirm with conditions, or reverse
the decision of the Planning Commission. The Town Council may reverse the
decision of the Planning Commission if three (3) members of the Town Council
vote in favor of such reversal.
   C.   On appeal. The applicant shall be allowed to make a presentation to the
Town Council under such terms, conditions and procedures as established by the
Town Council. The Town Council shall render a decision affirming, affirming
with conditions, or reversing the Planning Commission decision. If the Town
Council reverses the Planning Commission decision, the applicant may proceed to
submit a preliminary or final plat as appropriate under the conditions for
approval agreed to by the Town Council.
   D.   Further Appeal. The applicant for subdivision approval may not appeal
the disapproval of any final subdivision plat by the Town Council, except as
provided by state law.   
Section 10.15.270. Severability.
   This code and the various parts, sections, and clauses are hereby declared
to be severable, except the provisions relating to large scale developments;
otherwise, if any part, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase is
adjudged unconstitutional or, invalid, it is hereby declared that the remainder
of the code shall not be affected thereby; the Town Council hereby declares
that it would have passed this code and each part, section, paragraph,
sentence, clause, and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more portions thereof be declared invalid.
Chapter 17.
Conditional Uses.
   Section
10.17.10.   Purpose.
   Section
10.17.20.   Definitions.
   Section
10.17.30.   Land Use Authority.
   Section
10.17.40.   Zoning.
   Section
10.17.50.   Application For a Conditional Use.
   Section
10.17.60.   Conditions for Approval.
   Section
10.17.70.   Standards of Review.
   Section
10.17.80.   Revocation or Modification of a Conditional Use Approval.
   Section
10.17.90.   Additions and Amendments.
   Section
10.17.100.   List of Uses Which Require Additional Conditions for Uses.
Section 10.17.10. Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for certain land uses
listed in each zone as conditional uses.
Section 10.17.20. Definitions.
   See Chapter 12, Definitions.
Section 10.17.30. Land Use Authority.
   A.   Land Use Authority shall approve a conditional use permit if reasonable
conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance with
applicable standards and criteria. Unless stated otherwise in Fairfield Town
Code the Planning Commission is hereby authorized as the Land Use Authority to
review and render a decision for all conditional use applications, in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
Section 10.17.40. Zoning.
   Each zone will govern what conditional use will be allowed in that zone.
Each zone may have additional conditions listed to fully mitigate adverse
impacts.
Section 10.17.50. Application For a Conditional Use.
   A.   All requests for a conditional use, as identified in this chapter shall
be made on an application form provided by the Town. A property owner may
present a conditional use application for review and decision or an agent of
the property owner, or a lessee of the property, may present a conditional use
application for review and decision, provided such application is accompanied
by a property owner affidavit of authorization. All applications shall be
considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   Application Process for Conditional Use:
      1.   Fill out business license application;
      2.   Applicant shall supply the Town with addresses and envelopes for all
landowners that are located within 300 ft. of the proposed business (to be
turned in with application);
      3.   Pay all appropriate fees;
      4.   Building Department shall review the application for approval;
      5.   Planning Commission shall review the application for approval and
hold a public hearing;
      6.   Approval authority approves the CUP;
      7.   Mayor signs the building permit, if approved (No license is valid
without the Mayor's’ signature);
      8.   Licensing Official issues approved business license to applicant;
      9.   Licensing Official mails said permit to applicant; and
      10.   Fire inspection may be required.
   C.   The presentation/application to the Planning Commission shall include
the following when appropriate. Those requirements not applicable may be
removed by the chair of the Planning Commission:
      1.   Size, configuration, and location of the site, and proposed site
plan layout;
      2.   Proposed site ingress and egress to existing and proposed roads and
streets;
      3.   The provision of public facilities and amenities, including roads
and streets, culinary water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, public safety and
fire protection, and other utilities;
      4.   The location and amount of off street parking and loading areas;
      5.   Site circulation pattern for vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      6.   Building size and location;
      7.   The location and design of all site features, including proposed
signage, lighting, and refuse collection;
      8.   The provision of usable open space, public features, and
recreational amenities;
      9.   Fencing, screening and landscape treatments and other features
designed to increase the attractiveness of the site and protect adjoining
property owners from noise and visual impacts;
      10.   Measures directed at minimizing or eliminating potential nuisance
factors including, but not limited to noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt,
odors, gasses, noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and
radiation;
      11.   Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site,
including wetlands and drainage ways, around water, wildlife habitat, historic
and archeological site, and other natural site features;
      12.   The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal
schedules and functions;
      13.   Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring, as determined
necessary, to ensure the conditional use continues to operate in compliance
with all conditions and requirements of approval; and
      14.   Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the
Commission to allow the operation of the proposed conditional use, at the
proposed location in compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
   D.   Requirements. Applicants for a conditional use are required to comply
with all requirements of this chapter and this code, and including the
requirements for a building permit, as applicable, and all other applicable
requirements.
Section 10.17.60. Conditions for Approval.
   A.   The Planning Commission, in reviewing a conditional use application,
may impose such requirements and conditions with respect to:
      1.   Location;
      2.   Proof of land ownership;
      3.   A site plan;
      4.   A vicinity plan;
      5.   A written narrative including but not limited to:
         a.   Type of use proposed;
         b.   Days and times of operation;
         c.   Square footage of the building(s) proposed;
         d.   Square footage used by the conditional use;
         e.   Expected hardship on surrounding uses;
         f.   Number of users or employees; and
         g.   Other information the Land Use Authority deems necessary to
fulfill the purpose of this title may be requested prior to approval: and
      6.   The applicant shall also pay the appropriate fee outlined in the fee
schedule before the the Planning Commission or Town Council may review the
application.
Section 10.17.70. Standards of Review.
   A.   Decisions of approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the
conditional use permit application is based on the following criteria:
      1.   The General Plan and Permitted Zoning Conditions:
         a.   The CUP shall fit Fairfield Town’s future vision contained in its
General Plan; and
         b.   The CUP shall follow the zoning conditions for its location.
      2.   The safety of people and property;
      3.   Size and location of the use;
      4.   Structures associated with the use are compatible with surrounding
structures in terms of use, scale, mass, and circulation;
      5.   Prevent or minimize flood water damage where necessary;
      6.   Relocation, covering, or fencing of irrigation ditches, and drainage
channels;
      7.   Location, dimensions of truck loading and unloading facilities;
      8.   Conditions hazardous to the public health or safety;
      9.   Traffic considerations including:
         a.   Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the proposed use
including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes, pedestrian access,
and capacity of the existing streets;
         b.   The location and design of off street parking as well as
compliance with off-street parking standards;
         c.   Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and
egress, loading and unloading areas and the surfacing of parking areas and
driveways to specified standards; and
         d.   Internal traffic circulation.
      10.   Health and Sanitation:
         a.   The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare;
         b.   Emergency vehicle access; and
         c.   Screening of trash pick-up or waste storage areas.
      11.   Environmental Concerns:
         a.   The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal
schedules and functions;
         b.   Utility capacity;
         c.   Usable and permanent open space considerations;.
         d.   Signage;
         e.   Exterior lighting that complies with the lighting standards of
the zone;
         f.   Noise, vibration, pollution, odors, steam, or other factors that
might affect people and property offsite;
         g.   Potential discharge into the air, ground water, surface and
subsurface water, or soil; and
         h.   All buildings or other structures are designed to add to the
quality of the area.
      12.   Fencing, Screening, Landscaping:
         a.   Fencing, screening, and landscaping may be required to preserve
the quiet, aesthetic and peaceful enjoyment of surrounding properties and to
promote an aesthetically pleasing area to attract tourism, promote the
prosperity and general welfare of the Town:
            i.   Shall be of acceptable design that blend into the natural
surrounding areas;
            ii.   Shall follow the Landscaping Ordinance 10.19.00;
            iii.   May require screening to effectively block all views from
adjoining roads and properties of any passive storage of materials or
equipment. Including but not limited to vehicles, equipment, junk, waste
storage, or other personal property; and
            iv.   Fencing may be required to be ninety five (95)% opaque and
made of long lasting material. Cloth or temporary materials are NOT PERMITTED.
         b.   Walls shall be made from a solid surface. Walls and fences shall
be of acceptable design with architectural detail to conform to or enhance the
surrounding area;
         c.   Removal of structures, debri, or plant materials incompatible
with characteristics of the underlying zone may be required and property shall
be maintained and kept weed free;
      13.   Provision of a reasonable guarantee, bond or other surety, as
determined by the Planning Commission, that the proposed conditional use will
be maintained and operated in compliance with all conditions and requirements;
      14.   Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring as determined
necessary by the Planning Commission to ensure the use continues to operate in
compliance with all conditions and requirements of approval, no greater than
five (5) years; and
      15.   Any other items for the conditional use permit as deemed necessary
for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest. The Planning
Commission may require guarantees or other evidence that such conditions will
be met and complied with.
      16.   Preserve the quiet, aesthetic and peaceful enjoyment of surrounding
properties.
Section 10.17.80. Revocation or Modification of a Conditional Use Approval.
   A.   Revocation or Modification Process. A conditional use approved in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the approval
authority if any of the conditions of approval are not met, or if the permit is
used to violate any law, code or ordinance.
   B.   Conditional uses shall be re-evaluated and renewed at a minimum time
interval of not less than once every five (5) years or at shorter intervals as
the approval authority deems necessary.
   C.   Conditional use requirements may change as a result of growth or
unforeseen circumstances.
   D.   The Town staff shall notify the approved conditional use holder by
certified mail of any violation, or if a violation exists in any conditions of
approval. If no attempt to correct the violation is made within ten (10) days
after notification, the conditional use approval may be revoked by the Approval
Authority, if the Approval Authority finds that one or more of the following
circumstances exists:
      1.   The conditional use approval was obtained in a fraudulent manner;
      2.   The use for which the approval was granted has now ceased for at
least six (6) consecutive calendar months;
      3.   One (1) or more of the conditions of approval have not been met; or
      4.   Additionally, the Planning Commission, following a public hearing,
may modify the conditions under which the use approval was originally approved
if the Planning Commission finds that the use or related development
constitutes or is creating a nuisance.
   E.   Expiration Of Conditional Use Approval. A Conditional Use Application
approval shall expire and shall be invalid if a building, activity,
construction, or occupancy, as authorized by the approval, is not commenced
within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of approval. If work has not
commenced, or a use established within one hundred eighty (180) days from date
of approval, the approval shall be void and a new Conditional Use Application
required.
   F.   Appeal a Decision of the Commission. Any person aggrieved by a decision
of the Planning Commission regarding a conditional use may appeal the decision
to the Fairfield Town Council.
Section 10.17.90. Additions and Amendments.
   A.   Exception Standards. Though standards have been set for certain uses in
the chapter, the Planning Commission may add additional conditions providing
Title
10.17.60 is followed.
Section 10.17.100. List of Uses Which Require Additional Conditions for Uses.
   A.   This list does not permit uses in any zone. The list is to set
standards for conditional uses only. Any conditional use not specifically
listed in this chapter shall be prohibited in all zones.
      1.   Adult Oriented Businesses;
      2.   Bounce Houses;
      3.   Caretaker Dwelling (non farm uses);
      4.   Child Care Facility/Center;
      5.   Self- Storage and RV, Boat, Vehicle storage;
      6.   Home Based Business;
      7.   Special Event Uses;
      8.   Industrial Outdoor Storage.
      9.   Solar Power Plant-Large.
   B.   Adult Oriented Businesses. Subject to the provisions of
Title 3 Chapter 3 of this Code.
   C.     Bounce Houses.    Bounce houses or similar inflatables require
special insurance. The following insurance requirements must be met to obtain a
Special Event Permit:
      1.   A $3,000,000 ($1,000,000 per occurrence/ $3,000,000 aggregate)
Commercial General Liability Insurance Policy naming Fairfield Town as an
additional insured within that insurance policy;
      2.   Damage to Rented Premises must be insured for at least $500,000;
      3.   Medical Expenses must be insured for at least $5,000;
      4.   Personal Injury must be insured for at least $500,000;
      5.   Products must be insured for at least $500,000; and
      6.   If you would like to use a bounce-house or similar blow-up toy as a
part of the Special Event, the bounce house vendor must also meet the following
special insurance requirements:
         a.   Obtain a General Liability Insurance policy of $3,000,000
($1,000,000 per occurrence/ $3,000,000 aggregate) where Fairfield Town is named
as an additional insured;
         b.   Obtain an insurance policy that has an athletic participation
exclusion OR is one that will pay for bodily injury and property damage based
not on the participants but on territory, policy period, and unintentional
injury;
         c.   Some exceptions or adjustments may be made to the insurance
requirements. These exceptions will be decided on a case by case basis;
         d.   Pay additional fees that may be required for any damages on or to
Town property due to bounce houses;
         e.   Obtain a Special Event Permit. Bounce houses on Town property
require a permit and insurance regardless of the amount of people in
attendance;
         f.   Special events may also require a Temporary Mass Gathering Permit
obtained through the Utah County Health Department. A Temporary Mass Gathering
Permit is required for any event that:
            i.   Will have five hundred (500) or more attendees at one location
(public or private) for five (5) or more hours; and
            ii.   Is located at a facility that was not constructed for heavy
use.
   D.   Caretaker Dwellings (Non-Farm Uses). The Town Council may approve a
caretaker dwelling within zones providing the caretaker dwelling meets the
following standards:
      1.   The principal use served by the caretaker dwelling shall be a use
allowed in the zone;
      2.   The dwelling shall be incidental to the principal use;
      3.   The dwelling shall be within the same structure as the principal
use;
         a.   Exemption: Town Council may, with a recommendation from Planning
Commission, determine that the dwelling is better suited for reasons of
security, as a separate building. All other conditions in this ordinance shall
apply.
      4.   The dwelling shall be a single family dwelling;
      5.   The dwelling shall be designed as a part of and in harmony with the
architecture of the main building;
      6.   The dwelling shall be a minimum of five hundred (500) square feet.
The combined minimum size of the principal use building and the caretaker
dwelling will not be less than five thousand (5,000) square feet. The caretaker
dwelling will not be greater than ten percent (10%) of the combined area of the
principal use building and the caretaker dwelling. No caretaker dwelling shall
be greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet;
      7.   There shall be two additional parking spaces dedicated for the
caretaker’s use;
      8.   At least one of the occupants of the dwelling shall be a full time
employee of the business, operation or institution that qualifies for a
caretaker dwelling;
      9.   There are no health or safety issues, such as excess traffic, semi
trucks, toxic fumes or fire risk;
      10.   No caretaker’s dwelling shall be rented, leased, or otherwise hired
out;
      11.   Caretaker dwellings shall have a separate ingress and egress from
the principal use building;
      12.   The caretaker dwelling shall have a sprinkler fire suppression
system; and
      13.   The aggregate square footage of all storage units will count toward
the minimum square footage needed for the approval of a caretaker dwelling.
   E.   Child Care Facility/Center. Each application for a child care facility,
center, or home occupation must include and comply with the following criteria:
      1.   Proof of application for state child care license;
      2.   Compliance with state, federal, and local law;
      3.   A design that does not include a front yard playground;
      4.   A parking and traffic plan that adequately mitigates the adverse
impacts of increased traffic in the neighborhood (if a facility or center);
      5.   Childcare providers as a home occupation may not exceed zone
standards; and
      6.   Childcare providers as a home occupation may not provide services
for more than 2 (two) infants under the age of two (2) at any given time.
   F.   Home Based Business. Subject to the provisions of Title
3.5.00 of this code.
   G.    Self-Storage and RV, Boat, Vehicle Storage. All self-service storage
facilities (mini-warehouses) and recreational vehicle storage facilities shall
be designed, constructed, operated and occupied in accordance with the
following:
      1.   All goods and wares shall be stored within an enclosed building,
except that boats, travel trailers, motor homes and automobiles in running
order, may be stored in screened exterior areas which shall have shown on the
site plan and approved for that purpose;
      2.   Noindividual units shall be larger than twelve by fifty (12x 50)
feet;
      3.   Any storage of partially dismantled, wrecked or inoperable vehicles,
trailers, campers, motor homes or junk is prohibited;
      4.   Any repair, construction, reconstruction or manufacturing is
prohibited;
      5.   Any storage of hazardous materials including but not limited to
gasoline, paint, paint remover and similar flammable or hazardous materials is
prohibited;
      6.   Self-storage facilities fronting public roadways, residential
properties, or public properties shall include screening that shall screen any
storage areas on the site. Such screening shall be in compliance with the
Town’s Landscaping Ordinances. Screening shall be maintained in good condition
with no advertising thereon, except as permitted by the Town’s signage
regulations. include a barrier extending the full length of the property line.
         The screening may consist of either the solid facade of the storage
structure or a fence, wall, landscaping or similar structure. If the barrier is
to be provided by a fence or wall, the barrier shall be not less than six (6)
feet in height and shall be constructed of opaque material that will prevent
the passage of light and debris. Where the barrier is to be provided by the
building facade, said facades shall be in accordance with the setback
requirements applicable to the zone in which it is located;
      7.   Access to the compound area shall be sufficient for traffic,
emergency and fire vehicles;
      8.   Travelways will be approved by the Fairfield Fire Chief;
      9.   Travelways having a minimum of twenty five (25) feet in width when
providing access to units on both sides of the travelway or twenty (20) feet
when providing access to units on one side only. The circulation system shall
provide for access throughout the facility by continuous forward motion;
      10.   No facility shall be approved without adequate fire protection;
      11.   Noindividual units shall be supplied with water or sewer
facilities;
      12.   The design and improvement of the facility shall make adequate
provision for storm water and snow removal;
      13.   The aggregate square footage of all storage units will count toward
the minimum square footage needed for the approval of a caretaker dwelling;
   H.    Temporary and Special Event Use. The following regulations govern the
operation of seasonal uses as well as one time events:
      1.   A special event is defined as an activity or series of activities,
specific to an identifiable time and place, produced in conjunction with
community organizations often held on public property, and which may occur on a
one-time or recurring basis. Such events may include but are not limited to
street closures, block parties, fundraisers, street parties, runs, rides,
races, walks, and other community events. They may occur on streets and/or
sidewalks, parks, and other Town owned property. They may also include mass
gatherings as defined in Town ordinances. For the purposes of this ordinance,
special events shall not include privately sponsored events which rent space
inside Town facilities.The following are special events that are subject to the
following specific regulations and time limits, in addition to any regulations
of this zone;
      2.   Special event permits are required of any private function, such as,
but not limited to, a fundraiser, party, race, oversized group more than one
hundred persons picnics, etc.that utilizes Town property such as roads,
sidewalks, parks, etc., in a way that may interfere with the public’s typical
use of this property, and/or requires the dedication of additional Town staff
or services;
      3.   All Special Event Applications must be submitted to Fairfield Town.
All applications are subject to review and additional documentation may be
required including but not limited to proof of applicable insurance coverage
pertaining to the event being held. All applications must be submitted a
minimum of thirty (30) days prior to said event for approval.A penalty or fine
shall be assessed for not obtaining a Special Event Permit when one is
required. (see Fairfield Fee schedule). A copy of the event permit must be
onsite during the event;
      4.   Once your application has been approved, the following fees must be
paid to obtain a Special Event Permit:
         a.   A Special Event Review Fee;
         b.   Additional charges for police, fire, or parks personnel as needed
for the event (see Fairfield fee schedule for a breakdown); and
         c.   A refundable deposit will be refunded after the event concludes
if no damage has taken place.
   I.   Standards for Solar Power Plant-Large.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish the minimum
requirements and regulations for the placement, construction, modification, and
decommissioning of a Solar Power Plant- Large within Fairfield Town (the
“Town") and issuing a conditional use permit subject to reasonable conditions
that promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the Town,
while promoting the development of renewable energy resources.
      2.   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter the following words and
terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them unless such definition is
inconsistent with the manifest intent or contrary to the context of the
language of the ordinance.
         Abandoned Solar Energy System. Means any Solar Power Plant-Large that
remains nonfunctional or inoperative, meaning it is not being used to generate
energy or is not maintained in compliance with the terms of an approved
conditional use permit for a continuous period of one hundred eighty (180)
days. A Solar Power Plant-Large that is nonfunctional or inoperative for any
period of time as a result of an emergency or force majeure event, any
maintenance, repair, or repowering of the plant by the owner or operator, and/
or curtailment by an end user or power purchaser, or any other periods of
nonuse that are planned or scheduled by the owner or operator of the plant or
otherwise required by the power purchaser or transmission provider shall not be
deemed abandoned for purposes of this ordinance.
         Applicant. Means the person(s) or entity(ies) that submits an
application to the Town for a conditional use permit to install a Solar Power
Plant-Large pursuant to this ordinance.
         Concentrating Solar Thermal Devices. Means systems that use lenses,
mirrors, or tracking systems to focus or reflect a large area of sunlight into
a small area by a transfer of fluid or gas, which is used as a heat source for
either a conventional power plant, such as a steam power plant, or a power
conversion unit.
         Disturbance Zone. Means the area of a site directly impacted by the
construction and operation of a Solar Power Plant-Large. Impacts within the
disturbance zone may include, without limitation, reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects to protected viewsheds, aquifers, water resources, and
wildlife habitat or migration corridors located on the site.
         Hazardous Waste. Means any solid waste governed by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act Subtitle C regulation.
         Integrated PV. Means photovoltaics incorporated into building
materials, such as shingles.
         Offsite Impacted Area. Means:
         a.   The neighboring properties and roadways located adjacent to the
Disturbance Zone that are reasonably anticipated to be detrimentally affected
by glare produced by the operation of a Solar Power Plant-Large; and
         b.   A protected viewshed that includes the Disturbance Zone and other
areas outside the Disturbance Zone that is reasonably anticipated to be
detrimentally affected by the Solar Power Plant- Large. Areas outside of the
Disturbance Zone where a Solar Power Plant-Large may be visible are not
considered within the offsite impacted area solely by the fact that the plant
is visible if there are no reasonably anticipated glare or visual impacts or
reasonably anticipated impact to a protected viewshed that includes the site.
         Operator. Means the individual(s) or entity(ies) responsible for the
overall operation and management of a Solar Power Plant-Large. As used in this
chapter, the term "operator" may include both individuals and any form of legal
entity such as a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company.
         Owner. Means the individual(s) or entity(ies) which owns all or a
portion of a Solar Power Plant-Large. As used in this chapter, the term "owner"
includes individuals and any form of legal entity such as a corporation,
partnership, or limited liability company.
         Person. Means individuals, partnerships, corporations, limited
liability companies, or other legal entities which can hold property and/or
take legal action.
         Photovoltaic Device. Means a system of components that generates
electrical energy from sunlight by means of photovoltaic effect, whether or not
the device is able to store the electric energy produced for later use.
         Photovoltaic or PV. Means materials and devices that absorb sunlight
and convert it directly into electricity.
         Protected Viewshed. Means any viewshed corridor located within Town
that has been officially designated as a protected viewshed corridor under the
Town's Zoning Code.
         Rated Capacity. Means the maximum capacity of a Solar Power Plant-
Large based on the sum total of each photovoltaic system's nameplate capacity.
         Site. Means the property where a Solar Energy Project is constructed
and includes any Disturbance Zone as that term is defined in this chapter.
         Solar Energy Project or Project. Means a renewable energy project that
either:
         a.   Generates electricity from sunlight, consisting of one or more PV
systems and other appurtenant structures and facilities within the boundaries
of the site, or
         b.   Utilizes sunlight as an energy source to heat or cool buildings,
heat or cool water, or produce mechanical power by means of any combination of
collecting, transferring, or converting solar-generated energy, and does not
meet any of the following criteria:
            i.   Has a Disturbance Zone of less than two (2) acres;
            ii.   Is mounted on or over a building or parking lot or other
previously- disturbed area; or
            iii.   Utilizes Integrated PV only.
         Solar Power Plant-Large. Means a Solar Energy Project intended to
generate electric energy by converting sunlight, whether by solar devices or
other conversion technology, for the sale, delivery, transmission, or
consumption of the generated energy by more than one end-user or by an end-user
other than the owner or lessor of the property on which the Solar Energy
Project is constructed and operated. A Solar Power Plant-Large may also include
one or more substations, energy storage facilities, and/or transmission
facilities and improvements. Any Solar Energy Project which is proposed to be
constructed on a lot of more than two (2) acres in size will be deemed to be a
Solar Power Plant-Large and subject to all of the permitting and evaluation
criteria applicable to a Solar Power Plant-Large under this chapter. A Solar
Energy Project containing only transmission facilities and improvements may be
considered a Solar Power Plant-Large if the electrical energy transmitted along
the project was generated by solar devices or other conversion technology at an
off-site location.
         Substation. Means any combination of transformers, circuit breakers,
lightning arrestors, and associated equipment designed to either step up power
generated by any Solar Energy Project for transmission or to step down any
power coming into a Solar Energy Project from an external transmission system.
      3.   Concentrating Solar Thermal Devices Disallowed. Concentrating solar
thermal devices are not allowed in the Town.
      4.   Permitting and Licensing:
         a.   Solar Power Plant-Large may only be constructed if the Town
issues the owner/operator a conditional use permit and a Solar Power Plant-
Large is designated as a conditional use in the applicable zoning district.
         b.   Inspection Fees. Any applicant for a conditional use permit under
this chapter will be required to cover the cost of inspection fees for
inspections that shall be performed by a qualified third party inspector not
more than once a year following completion of construction of a Solar Power
Plant-Large. The amount of the inspection fees shall be reasonable and shall
not exceed the actual costs incurred by the Town to perform the inspection.
Inspection fees will be a condition for issuance and/or renewal of any annual
business license required by this Code.
      5.   Conditional Use Permit Applications. In addition to the general
requirements for a conditional use permit, an application for a Solar Power
Plant-Large shall include the following information:
         a.   Project description. A narrative identifying the applicant,
owner, and operator, and describing the proposed Solar Energy Project,
including a detailed overview of the project and its location; the approximate
estimated rated capacity of the Solar Power Plant-Large; the approximate
number, representative types and expected footprint of solar equipment to be
used or constructed; and a description of any ancillary equipment, buildings,
and structures, if applicable; an estimated construction schedule and project
life;
         b.   Site and development plans. The site and development plans shall
include the following information:
            i.   Property lines and setback lines;
            ii.   Existing and proposed buildings and structures, including the
location(s) of the proposed PV and any other solar equipment;
            iii.   Existing and proposed access roads, drives, turnout
locations, and parking;
            iv.   The location of all substations, electrical cabling from the
solar energy project to all substations, ancillary equipment, buildings, and
structures (including those within any applicable setbacks);
            v.   Fencing or other methods of ensuring public safety;
            vi.   Areas of wildlife habitat and migration corridors and areas
of historic, archeological, and cultural resources within the Disturbance Zone
and Offsite Impacted Area;
            vii.   Erodible slopes and soils, and/or which present concerns for
water quality, landslide, severe erosion, or high storm runoff potential;
            viii.   Historic, archeological, and cultural resources;
            ix.   Areas containing erodible slopes and soils, and/or which
present concerns for water quality, landslide, severe erosion, or high storm
runoff potential;
            x.   Existing utilities, pipelines, and transmission lines;
proposed utility lines; utility and maintenance structures; existing
topographic contours; existing and proposed drainage ways; proposed grading;
areas of natural vegetation removal; and
            xi.   Any existing inhabitable structures and residentially-zoned
lots within ¼ mile of the project;
            xii.   Any floodplains or wetlands; and
            xiii.   Additional information may be required, as determined by
Town officials or staff, such as a scaled elevation view and other supporting
drawings, photographs of the proposed site, photos or other realistic
simulations or modeling of the proposed Solar Energy Project from potentially
sensitive locations as deemed necessary by Town officials to assess the visual
impact of the project, a landscaping and screening plan, coverage map, and
additional information that may be necessary for a technical review of the
proposal.
         c.   Documentation of the Right to Use the Site for the Proposed Solar
Power Plant- Large. Documentation shall include proof of ownership or control
over the site or legal proof of the owner/operator's right to use the site in
the manner requested. The applicant may redact sensitive financial or
confidential business information from the documentation provided, so long as
doing so does not prevent Town officials or staff from confirming the
applicant's legal right to utilize the site for the proposed purpose. Copies of
recorded deeds or memoranda of leases and easements shall be deemed sufficient
for purposes of demonstrating site control under this Code;
         d.   Documentation of Permits or Permit Applications. As a condition
of approval of any conditional use permit pursuant to this subsection, the
applicant shall be required to provide Town staff with certified copies of all
necessary permits to construct any Solar Power Plant-Large from the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERG") and the Utah State Public Service
Commission ("Utah PSC"). The Town may withhold approval of any building permits
for a Solar Power Plant-Large if the applicant fails to provide copies of such
required permits at the time the applicant applies for a building permit;
         e.   Confirmation of Commitment to Purchase Power. As a condition of
approval of any conditional use permit pursuant to this subsection, the
applicant shall provide Town staff with documentation demonstrating a
commitment by a power purchaser to purchase one hundred (100) percent of the
anticipated power to be generated by any Solar Power Plant-Large being proposed
for permitting. The Town may withhold approval of a building permit for a Solar
Power Plant-Large if the applicant fails to provide such documentation at the
time the applicant applies for a building permit. Documentation may include,
without limitation, evidence that the applicant has been selected by a power
purchaser to negotiate a power purchase agreement, a memorandum of an executed
power purchase agreement, docket filings or other publicly available records of
the Utah PSC or other regulatory agency with jurisdiction evidencing the
approval of such agreement. The applicant shall not be required to provide a
copy of its power purchase agreement to satisfy the requirements of this
section;
         f.   Local Economic Benefits. The applicant must provide an analysis
of local economic benefits, describing estimated project cost, generated taxes,
the percentage of construction dollars to be spent locally, and the number of
local construction and permanent jobs that are anticipated to be created as a
result of the project. In addition to these factors, the analysis of local
economic benefits shall include an analysis of the anticipated life of the
project, the costs to decommission the project at the end of its useful life,
an estimate of the costs of disposal of all components of the project,
including the potential cleanup costs of any hazardous waste generated both by
the operation of the project and as part of decommissioning the project and
disposal of the buildings, materials, components, waste, and accessory
structures that exist because of the project. Finally, the analysis of economic
benefits will include an assessment of the loss of all agricultural land within
the Disturbance Zone used for the construction and operation of the proposed
project, including the costs to mitigate the effects of sedimentation to the
local surface and groundwater as a result of the removal of vegetation from the
site over the anticipated life of the proposed project;
         g.   Environmental Analysis. The applicant shall prepare an
environmental review to include an evaluation of the reasonably anticipated
wildlife impacts, visual impacts, soil impacts, including impacts arising from
the removal of vegetation from the site for any Solar Power Plant-Large, and
possible sedimentation arising from that removal, and an evaluation of any
wildlife, historic, archeological, and cultural resources identified by DWR and
UTSHPO in accordance with Section
10.17.100.I.(5)(b)(vi). At the applicant's election, the analysis required
under this section may be prepared so as to be consistent with the requirements
of the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. § 4321, et seq. ("NEPA")
and regulations issued by the Council on Environmental Quality or such
alternative regulations as the applicant proposes that are consistent with the
requirements of this Code, with the applicant supporting its decision by a
submission to the Planning Commission. In the event that the applicant is
required by any state or federal agency to undertake review of the proposed
project under NEPA, documents prepared by the applicant to comply with those
requirements may be submitted to the Town in satisfaction of this requirement.
In addition, the environmental review documents shall include an evaluation of
the decommissioning plan required by this Code and the reasonably anticipated
environmental impacts arising from the implementation of the decommissioning
plan. The review documents prepared pursuant to this section must identify all
such reasonably anticipated impacts and propose modifications to any proposed
project to reasonably mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts.
In the event that avoidance of the identified impacts is not deemed possible,
the environmental review documents prepared pursuant to this section shall
include proposals for the mitigation of any identified impacts which cannot be
avoided. Both the Planning Commission and the Town Council may deny any
application for a conditional use permit to the extent permitted under state
law based on their determination that the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of a proposed Solar Power Plant-Large cannot be substantially mitigated
by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve
compliance with the standards of approval set forth in this subsection;
         h.   Solid and Hazardous Waste. Include plans for the spill
prevention, clean-up, and disposal of fuels, oils, and hazardous waste, as well
as collection methods for all solid waste generated by the Solar Energy
Project. In addition, an application for a conditional use permit pursuant to
this subsection shall include, as part of the decommissioning plan required
under Section,
10.17.100.I.5.h. a disposal plan for all solid waste and any hazardous waste
that will be generated by the implementation of the decommissioning plan. The
calculation of the decommissioning costs (as defined in
10.17.100.I.5.h.) shall include the costs to dispose of any hazardous waste
generated by a proposed Solar Power Plant- Large as part of the decommissioning
of the project. Any hazardous waste generated as a result of the construction,
operation, maintenance or decommissioning of a Solar Power Plant-Large may not
be disposed within the Town. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, an
applicant shall provide the Town with the Safety Data Sheets (SDS) from the
manufacturer of the solar array panels proposed for the project, as well as the
SDS for all other components of the proposed project for which SDSs exist;
         i.   Transportation Plan for Construction and Operation Phases.
Indicate by both a narrative description and a map the roads the applicant will
utilize during the construction and operational phases of the project, along
with their existing surfacing and condition. In addition, the application must
specify any new roads and proposed upgrades or improvements needed to the
existing road system to serve the project during both the construction and
operation of the project. Any application must also identify all areas where
modification of the topography is anticipated (cutting/filling) to construct or
improve the roadways, address road improvement, restoration or maintenance
needs associated with the construction, ongoing maintenance/ repair, and
potential dismantling and/or decommissioning of the project, provide projected
traffic counts for the construction period, broken down by the general type/
size of vehicles, and identify approximately how many trips will have oversized
or overweight loads. If significant impacts to the Towns' transportation system
are anticipated, the Town may require financial guarantees to ensure proper
repair/restoration of roadways or other infrastructure damaged or degraded
during construction or dismantling of the project. In such cases, the "before"
conditions of the roadways and other infrastructure must be documented through
appropriate methods such as videos, photos, and written records, in order to
provide a proper reference for restoration;
         j.   Public Safety. Identify and address any known or suspected
potential safety hazards to the Town, adjacent properties, public roadways,
communities, and any other potential impacts to public safety that may be
created by the proposed project;
         k.   Noise limitations. Include sufficient information regarding noise
generated during both the construction and the operation of the proposed
project so as to demonstrate compliance with Fairfield Nuisance code
5.1.120.
         l.   Visual and Glare Impacts and Protected Viewsheds. As part of the
environmental review required under
10.17.100.I.5.g. an evaluation of the reasonably anticipated detrimental glare
impacts and impacts to protected viewsheds within the Disturbance Zone and
offsite impacted area shall be undertaken and included as part of that
environmental review. The applicant shall also provide an evaluation of visual
impacts caused by components of the project such as mirrors, solar towers,
cooling towers, steam plumes above-ground electrical lines, accessory
structures, access roads, utility trenches and installations, and alteration of
vegetation. The environmental review shall assess the visual and glare impacts
within both the Disturbance Zone and offsite impacted area of all such
components that are proposed to be installed as part of a Solar Power Plant-
Large, and an assessment of those impacts shall be included as part of a visual
simulation of the planned structures and analysis of reasonably anticipated
glare impacts within the proposed project's Disturbance Zone and offsite
impacted area. The number of visual simulations shall be sufficient to provide
adequate analysis of the visual impacts of the proposal, which shall be from no
less than four (4) vantage points that together provide a view from all sides
of the proposed Solar Power Plant-Large. More visually sensitive proposals
(e.g., solar power towers or exposed mirrors in sensitive viewsheds) may
require analysis from significantly more vantage points, such as different
distances and sensitive locations.
         m.   Consultation with the Utah Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Wildlife Resources. The applicant shall provide Town staff with
documentation that the applicant has notified DWR in writing of the proposed
Solar Power Plant-Large on the Site. If, within thirty (30) days of DWR's
receipt of the applicant's notice, DWR confirms in writing to the applicant
that DWR has identified reasonably anticipated detrimental effects as
determined by DWR to areas of wildlife habitat and migration corridors for
wildlife on the site that will be affected as a result of the construction and
operation of any Solar Power Plant-Large, such information obtained from the
consultation with DWR will be incorporated into the environmental review
required pursuant to Section
10.17.100.I.5.g. and the Planning Commission may impose reasonable conditions
to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the Solar Power
Plant-Large on such affected habitat or corridors on the site.
         n.   Consultation with the Utah State Historic Preservation Office
(SHPO) & Antiquities Section. The applicant shall provide Town staff with
documentation that the applicant has notified SHPO in writing of the proposed
Solar Power Plant-Large on the site. If, within thirty (30) days of SHPO's
receipt of the applicant's notice, SHPO confirms in writing to the applicant
that SHPO and identified reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
proposed Solar Power Plant-Large on historic, archeological, and cultural
resources under by Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, 54
U.S.C. § 300101, and any regulations adopted pursuant to that Act, as well as
the requirements of Utah Code Annotated § 9-8-404(1), such information obtained
from the consultation with SHPO will be incorporated into the environmental
review required pursuant to Section
10.17.100.I.5.g. and the Planning Commission may impose reasonable conditions
to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the Solar Power
Plant-Large on such historic, archaeological, and cultural resources on the
site;
         o.   Revegetation Areas and Methods;
         p.   Dust and Erosion Control;
         q.   Agreements/Easements. If the land on which the project is
proposed is to be leased, rather than owned by the applicant, all property
within the project boundary must be included in a recorded easement(s), lease
(s), or consent agreement(s) specifying the applicable uses for the duration of
the project. All necessary leases, easements, or other agreements between the
applicant and the affected parties must be in place prior to commencing
construction, unless specified otherwise by the conditional use permit;
         r.   Identify the anticipated points of interconnections between the
Solar Power Plant-Large and the power grid of the utility whose facilities will
transmit the power generated by the Solar Power Plant-Large for which a
conditional use permit is being sought. Unless waived by the Planning
Commission, no above-ground collector lines may be constructed as part of a
Solar Power Plant-Large, except for connections between the substation or
substations included as part of a Solar Power Plant-Large required to connect
the Solar Power Plant-Large to high voltage transmission lines operated by a
public utility licensed by FERC and the Utah PSC. The applicant must
demonstrate that any such connections are necessary, and that they comply with
the requirements imposed by FERC and the Utah PSC, as applicable;
         s.   Plans to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects
of the Solar Power Plant-Large;
         t.   Additional Impacts. In addition to the impacts identified above,
the Planning Commission or Town Council may require the identification,
assessment, avoidance, or mitigation of any other probable and significant
impacts, as identified through the review process; and
         u.   Decommissioning Plan. Submit a decommissioning plan which
complies with Section 10.17.100.I.6. of this chapter.
      6.   Standards for a Decommissioning Plan.
         a.   As part of the Conditional Use Permit application, the applicant
must submit a decommissioning plan which must include the following:
            i.   The anticipated life of the project;
            ii.   The estimated cost to remove, dismantle, and dispose of the
project improvements at the end of their useful life (the "decommissioning
cost"), as determined by a licensed professional engineer not employed by the
applicant, owner or operator, with experience in the design/construction or
operation and decommissioning of Solar Energy Projects; and
            iii.   The manner in which the project will be decommissioned.
         b.   Before any conditional use permit may be issued pursuant to this
subsection, the Town Council must approve the decommissioning plan submitted in
connection with the application for a conditional use permit. Any such approval
must include an election by the applicant of the means by which financial
assurance will be provided to the Town that the applicant will be able to
implement its proposed decommissioning plan. The financial assurance means may
be chosen from the following alternatives, and the required financial assurance
shall be provided to the Town prior to the issuance of a building permit
authorizing the commencement of construction of the project:
            i.   A federally insured certificate of deposit in the name of the
Town in the amount of one hundred twenty-five (125) percent of the
decommissioning cost, along with a power of attorney, made in favor of the
Town, allowing the Town to access the certificate of deposit in the event the
applicant, owner, or operator fails to fulfill the decommissioning plan,
declares bankruptcy, or is otherwise deemed to be insolvent by a court with
competent jurisdiction;
            ii.   A cash deposit in the amount of one hundred twenty-five (125)
percent of the decommissioning cost costs, along with a power of attorney, made
in favor of the Town, allowing the Town to access the cash deposit in the event
the applicant, owner, or operator fails to fulfill the decommissioning plan,
declares bankruptcy, or is otherwise deemed to be insolvent by a court with
competent jurisdiction;
            iii.   An irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the Town, in the
amount of one hundred twenty-five percent (125 %) of the decommissioning cost,
along with a power of attorney, made in favor of the Town, allowing the Town to
access the letter of credit in the event the applicant, owner, or operator
fails to fulfill the decommissioning plan, declares bankruptcy, or is otherwise
deemed to be insolvent by a court with competent jurisdiction; and
            iv.   Posting a performance bond to be made in favor of the Town of
one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the decommissioning cost that allows
the Town to access the bond in the event the applicant, owner, or operator
fails to fulfill the decommissioning plan, declares bankruptcy, or is otherwise
deemed to be insolvent by a court with competent jurisdiction.
      7.   If the owner of any Solar Energy Project finances the project with
debt secured by the project, the owner shall ensure that the debt shall not be
secured by and the lender(s) may not access the financial assurance posted by
the applicant, owner, or operator to ensure the decommissioning costs of the
project pursuant to Section
10.17.100.I.6.b.
      8.   To assure that the decommissioning cost upon which the
decommissioning plan required by this section remains up-to-date and valid, the
applicant, owner, or operator shall prepare and present to the Town an updated
decommissioning plan and decommissioning cost not later than five (5) years
following the issuance of any building permit by the Town for any project
permitted pursuant to this section, and again every five (5) years thereafter.
      9.   Unsafe or Abandoned Solar Energy System. If the Building Department,
after the delivery of notice to the owner or operator, finds that a Solar
Energy Project is in violation of any federal, state, or local permits,
approvals, or safety standards, the owner or operator shall take steps
immediately to ensure the Solar Energy Project complies with all federal,
state, and local permits, approvals, and safety standards. If the Planning
Commission, after delivery of notice to the owner or operator, finds that the
project is an Abandoned Solar Energy System, the owner or operator shall
decommission the project in accordance with the decommissioning plan. Any
finding by the Planning Commission pursuant to this paragraph must be made in
writing and preceded by a public meeting that complies with applicable Utah
law. An owner or operator may appeal a finding of the Planning Commission by
following the Town's Land Use Appeal Ordinance within thirty (30) days of the
date the finding was made. The Building Department may extend the one hundred
eighty (180) day deadline set forth in the definition of an Abandoned Solar
Energy System if the Building Department finds that the owner or operator
intends to repair and restore operations of the project and provides the
Building Department with a restoration plan and timeline for doing so. If the
owner or operator fails to repair or decommission an Abandoned Solar Energy
System within the time frame set forth in the decommissioning plan (or as
otherwise approved by the Building Department as provided herein) or fails to
file a timely appeal with the Land Use Appeal Authority, this failure will be
deemed as sufficient cause for the Town to utilize the security accepted by the
Town pursuant to Section 10.17.100.I.6.b. and to remove the project and
implement the decommissioning plan prepared by the applicant. When the owner,
operator, or other responsible party decommissions a Solar Energy Project, that
person or persons shall handle and dispose of the equipment and other project
components in conformance with all state and local requirements. At such time
as a Solar Energy Project is scheduled to be decommissioned at the end of the
project's useful life, the owner, operator, or other responsible party shall
notify the Town no less than three hundred sixty-five (365) days prior to the
date of decommissioning, as well as notify the Town of the schedule within
which the owner, operator, or other responsible party shall complete the
physical removal of the Solar Energy Project. This period may be extended at
the request of the owner, operator, or other responsible party, upon approval
of the Town Council.
      10.   Standards for Location, Appearance, and Operation of a Project
Site:
         a.   Height Restrictions. All photovoltaic panels, solar devices, and
buildings, and accessory structures located on a Solar Power Plant-Large shall
be restricted to a maximum height of fifteen (15) feet when orientated at a
maximum tilt, as measured from the existing grade;
         b.   Setbacks. Buildings and accessory structures constructed at a
Solar Power Plant- Large shall be set back from all property lines and public
road rights-of-way at least twenty-five (25) feet, or one and one-half times
the height of the building or structure, whichever is greater. In addition,
buildings and accessory structures at a Solar Power Plant-Large must be located
at least one hundred (100) feet from all residentially zoned lots and existing
residences. Additional setbacks may be required to mitigate reasonably
anticipated noise and glare impacts, or to provide for designated road or
utility corridors, as identified through the application review process;
         c.   Fencing. An appropriate security/livestock fence (height and
material to be established through the conditional use permit process) shall be
placed around the perimeter of any Solar Power Plant-Large. Knox key lock boxes
and keys shall be provided at locked entrances to allow emergency personnel
access;
         d.   Signage on Solar Equipment. Warning signage shall be placed on
solar equipment to the extent appropriate, as determined by Town staff, with
any restrictions or requirements on signage incorporated as part of any
conditional use permit issued pursuant to this ordinance. Solar equipment shall
not be used for displaying any advertising except for reasonable identification
of the manufacturer, owner or operator of the Solar Energy Project. All signs,
flags, streamers, or similar items, both temporary and permanent, are
prohibited on solar equipment except as follows: (a) manufacturer's or
installer's identification; (b) appropriate warning signs and placards; (c)
signs that may be required by any federal agency or the Utah PSC; and (d) signs
that provide a 24-hour emergency contact phone number and warn of any danger.
Educational signs providing information about the project and benefits of
renewable energy may be allowed as provided in the Town sign ordinance;
         e.   Noise and Nuisance Requirements. Solar Energy Projects shall
comply with all applicable Town noise and nuisance codes;
         f.   Buildings and Accessory Structures. All buildings and accessory
structures incorporated into any Solar Power Plant-Large shall use materials,
colors, and textures that will blend the facility into the existing
environment;
         g.   Landscaping. Appropriate landscaping and/or screening materials
may be required to help screen a Solar Power Plant-Large and buildings and
accessory structures from major roads and neighboring residences. The use of
landscaping or other screening material may be required to mitigate the
reasonably anticipated detrimental visual impacts and glare impacts within the
Disturbance Zone and the offsite impacted area, if any, of any Solar Power
Plant-Large identified as part of the environmental review undertaken pursuant
to
10.17.100.I.5.g.and may be incorporated as conditions of approval of a
conditional use permit issued pursuant to this section;
         h.   Lighting. Lighting of all buildings and accessory structures
included in any Solar Power Plant-Large shall be limited to the minimum
necessary, and full cut-off lighting as required by the Town Lighting Code and
may be required when determined necessary to mitigate visual impacts. No Solar
Power Plant-Large shall produce glare that would constitute a nuisance to
occupants of neighboring properties or persons traveling on neighboring roads.
         i.   Fire Protection. All Solar Power Plants-Large shall have a
defensible space for fire protection with a fire protection plan which will be
approved and signed off by the fire marshal.
         j.   Local, State and Federal Permits. A Solar Power Plant-Large shall
be required to obtain all necessary permits from the Utah PSC, the Utah
Department of Environmental Quality ("Utah DEQ"), including the Utah Division
of Air Quality and the Utah Division of Water Quality, any applicable permits
required by the Town, and all applicable Federal permits. A condition of
approval of a conditional use permit issued pursuant to this ordinance shall be
reasonable documentation that the applicant has obtained all required permits
to construct the Solar Power Plant-Large from FERC, the Utah PSC, and the Utah
DEQ. The Town may withhold approval of a building permit for a Solar Power
Plant- Large if such condition is not satisfied at the time the applicant
applies for a building permit.
      11.   Standards of Approval for a Conditional Use Permit:
         a.   A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are
proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards set forth
in this chapter and with all other applicable portions of the Town's land use
code. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed
conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable
standards, the conditional use may be denied. For purposes of this chapter, the
applicable standards which shall be applied in assessing any application
submitted pursuant to this ordinance shall be:
            i.   Whether the proposed use meets the applicable requirements for
conditional use of a "Solar Power Plant-Large" in the proposed zone;
            ii.   The use is compatible, or with conditions of approval can be
made compatible, with surrounding uses;
            iii.   The use is consistent with all applicable adopted Town
planning policies and master plans; and
            iv.   The reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
proposed use can be mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions.
         b.   Limitations on Conditional Use Approval. Subject to an extension
of time granted by the Planning Commission, no conditional use permit approved
pursuant to this Code shall be valid for a period longer than three (3) years,
unless a building permit has been issued, complete building plans have been
submitted to the Town building department within that period and the permitted
project is thereafter diligently pursued to completion, a certificate of
occupancy is issued and a use commenced within that period, or a longer time is
requested and granted by the Planning Commission. Any request for a time
extension shall be submitted not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of the three (3) year time period.
      12.   The Town Council is the approval authority.
      13.   Appeals. See Section
10.5.170.
      14.   Application to Successors and Assigns. The terms of any conditional
use permit issued pursuant to this Code shall run with the land and be binding
on any successor or assignee of an applicant, owner or operator and any party
that purchases and/or operates a project.
      15.   Savings Clause. If any part of this ordinance shall be deemed
invalid by an administrative agency or court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the legality and enforceability of any other
provision hereof.
      16.   Penalties. Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter or who fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to
comply with any order or directive made thereunder, shall severally for each
and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section 10.1.25 of this code.
Furthermore, the imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue. All such persons or entities shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time and, when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   J.   Industrial Outdoor Storage. The intent and purpose of this section is
to protect the community, enhance and support tourism, protect neighboring
properties from litter, vermin, a loss of property value or other ill effects
of unsightly or uncontained storage, junk or salvage items. The following
restrictions shall apply
      1.   Such use shall be located in a zone in which the use is a
conditionally permitted use;
      2.   All industrial supplies, and building materials; all licensed,
registered and fully operational automobiles; parts and other items, shall be
kept in an orderly, maintained and aesthetically pleasing way;
      3.   Any parts or materials which are light enough to blow in the wind
shall be kept in an enclosed building;
      4.   Waste, garbage, junk, and debris piles shall not be kept on site;
      5.   Reference
10.17.70 (11) for fencing, screening and landscaping requirements; and
      6.   All areas intended for industrial outdoor storage shall be
designated as such on the site plan.
Rev. ord. 10242023, passed 10-24-2023.
Chapter 19.
Landscape Requirements.
   Section
10.19.10.   Purpose.
   Section
10.19.20.   Landscaping Plan.
   Section
10.19.30.   Landscape Requirements Residential.
   Section
10.19.40.   Landscape Requirements Non Residential.
Section 10.19.10. Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards and requirements for the
installation of landscaping and screening walls for all new and expanded
development within the Town in order to promote the general welfare of the
community; to effectuate attractive and logical development; to aid in the
enhancement of property values; to create an attractive appearance along Town
streets; to compliment the visual effect of buildings; to provide appropriate
buffers between incompatible land uses and protection from intense activities;
and to aid in conserving water by encouraging the use of varieties of plants,
trees and shrubs indigenous to arid regions which are characterized by low
water consumption. The standards and regulations of this chapter shall be held
to be the minimum requirements necessary for the promotion of the foregoing
objectives of this chapter.
Section 10.19.20. Landscaping Plan.
   A.   All applicants for commercial purposes are required to submit a
landscaping plan. Landscape plans should achieve the following purposes:
      1.   Preserve and complement the desert character of the natural
landscape, mitigate building and parking lot impact, add aesthetic charm,
interest and character, and conserve water;
      2.   Provide visual interest and variety;
      3.   Provide necessary screening elements;
      4.   Add year round site beautification;
      5.   Blend with the natural landscape;
      6.   Highlight building design features; and
      7.   Conserve water.
Section 10.19.30. Landscape Requirements, Residential.
   All yards visible to the public must have an area the same size as the
square footage of the home that is improved, groomed, and maintained. Examples
of this include xeriscaping, driveways, sidewalks, vegetation, and trees which
are strongly encouraged.
Section 10.19.40. Landscape Requirements, Non-Residential.
   A.    All applicants for commercial uses are required by this title to make
landscaping improvements and shall submit a landscaping plan prepared by a
licensed landscape architect to meet the minimum landscape requirements
outlined in this chapter. The Fairfield Building Department will review the
submitted landscaping plan for compliance with this chapter and forward the
plan to the Planning Commission and Town Council for review and action
concurrent with development applications, which require landscaping plans to be
submitted. The landscaping plan shall include, at a minimum, the following
information:
      1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
property lines, easements, parking lots, power lines, rights-of-way, ground
signs, refuse areas, and lighting;
      2.   The plant names (both botanical and common name), location,
quantity, and size of all existing and proposed plants. The proposed plan
should indicate the size of the plant material at the time of planting and at
maturation. All existing vegetation that is to be removed or remain on the site
should be clearly identified;
      3.   Existing and proposed grading of the site indicating contours at two
(2) foot intervals for grades that are five(5) percent or greater. For areas
where grades are less than five (5) percent, contours may be shown at one-foot
intervals;
      4.   Irrigation system plan;
      5.   Existing and proposed fences and identification of the fencing
materials; and
      6.   A summary of the total percentage of landscaped areas, domestic turf
grasses, deciduous and evergreen species, and xeriscaping.
   B.   Completion of Landscape Improvements. All required landscaping
improvements shall be completed in accordance with the approved site plan,
landscaping planting plan, and irrigation plan and occur prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy for the associated structure/building. Exceptions
may be permitted and certificates of occupancy issued where weather conditions
prohibit the completion of approved and required landscaping improvements. In
such cases an extension period of not longer than six months is permitted and a
bond for no less than one hundred ten (110) percent of the total estimated
value of the landscaping shall be held until the project is in full compliance
with this chapter and any approved site or landscaping plans.
   C.   Planting Standards. The planting standards are the minimum size of
landscaping that the Town will accept towards meeting the landscaping required
in this chapter. All planting must conform with the Fairfield Soil Ordinance.
The Planning Commission and Town Council shall use the planting standards in
evaluation of any landscaping plan. The following are planting standards for
required landscaping that shall be followed for all new development:
      1.   Trees. Deciduous trees shall, when planted, have a minimum trunk
size of one and one-half (1 ½) inches in caliper measured eight (8) inches
above the soil line. Evergreen trees shall have a minimum size of six (6) feet
in height. The applicant may elect to use either deciduous or evergreen trees
to meet this requirement;
      2.   Ornamental Trees. All ornamental trees shall have a minimum trunk
size, when planted, of one and one-half (1 ½) inches in caliper measured eight
(8) inches above the soil line;
      3.   Shrubs. All shrubs shall be a minimum of one (1) gallon
containerized stock, when planted, that will attain a height of at least two
(2) feet;
      4.   Turf. No landscaping shall be composed of more than thirty (30)
percent turf;
      5.   Drought-Tolerant Plants. A minimum of fifty (50) percent of all tree
and shrub species shall be required to be drought tolerant;
      6.   Weed Barrier. Planting beds are required to have a weed barrier with
mulched wood chips, rocks, or other similar treatment;
      7.   Parking Areas. Parking areas for vehicles, trailers and all heavy
equipment shall be weed free:
      8.   All areas in front of screening, along frontage and public roads
shall be weed free with an aggregate size of three quarters (¾) inch gravel to
the depth of three (3) inches or any like material and must be laid on a
minimum of two (2) inches of road base.
   D.   Design Applications. The Planning Commission and Town Council shall use
the following design applications in evaluation of any landscaping plan:
      1.   Selection of Plants. Plants shall be selected for texture, form,
color, pattern of growth and adaptability to local conditions. Native plants
shall be preferred;
      2.   Water Conservation. All planter beds shall be irrigated through the
use of drip lines instead of spray heads to minimize water loss through
evaporation; and
      3.   Berming. Landscaped berming is required as a headlight screen or
buffer surrounding parking areas between different land uses; particularly
between nonresidential and residential uses or single-family and multifamily
uses.
   E.   Required Landscaping:
      1.   Anarea equal to fifteen (15) percent of the total size of the
parking lot must be landscaped;
      2.   A minimum of the equivalent of ten (10) feet surrounding the
footprint of the building must be landscaped;
      3.   Each side of a building visible to the public or neighboring
residential property shall be landscaped;
      4.   One (1) tree for every ten (10) parking spaces;
      5.   A minimum of one (1) tree shall be placed for every one thousand
(1,000) sq. ft. of required landscaped area; and
      6.   Storm water retention areas shall be landscaped.
   F.   The Town Council shall have authority to waive these standards as
circumstances dictate.
   G.   Water Wise Landscaping Standards. The following are the minimum
standards for water wise landscaping for any park strip, median, or landscaped
area located within a public right-of-way, a commercial, or industrial
development:
      1.   At least twenty (20) percent of the required landscape area shall be
live vegetation;
      2.   Live vegetation shall be distributed throughout the landscape area,
and shall not be segregated;
      3.   Decorative rock material shall be a minimum of one (1) inch
aggregate, and shall be at least three (3) inches deep and be placed completely
on top of a weed fabric barrier that allows the permeation of water. Rock
materials shall not exceed the height of the sidewalk/trail or the top back of
the curb, when placed along a public right-of-way;
      4.   All water wise landscaped areas shall be improved with a drip
irrigation system if applicable; and
      5.   Any individual, corporation, or other entity shall be responsible
for any damage caused by landscaping in public rights of way including rocks or
other materials that migrate onto a sidewalk, trail, street, storm drain, or
other public facility, regardless of how such migration occurs.
Chapter 21.
Signs.
   Section
10.21.10.   Permitted in All Zones.
   Section
10.21.20.   Residential Zones.
   Section
10.21.30.   Non-Residential Zones.
Section 10.21.10. Permitted in All Zones.
   A.   In addition to other signs which may be permitted, the following signs
shall be permitted in any zone:
      1.   Temporary real estate signs that advertise the sale or rental of the
property on which such signs are located, provided no sign is larger than
thirty-two (32) square feet in area nor closer than six hundred sixty (660)
feet to another such sign on the lot;
      2.   Traffic, street name, and information signs placed by a governmental
agency; and
      3.   Political campaign signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0dd04e6e00f3febf494a76f52765310eb8e187e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.png]
 
Section 10.21.20. Residential Zones.
   No advertising signs of any kind shall be allowed in any residential zone,
except signs pertaining to the sale or lease of residential property and except
for name plates or signs indicating the existence of an office or a
professional person and a home occupation.
   Exception: Temporary signs (not posted longer than 72 hours).
Section 10.21.30. Non-Residential Zones.
   A.   If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is
prohibited. All illuminated signs must comply with the Fairfield Outdoor
Lighting Standards. Sign plan and design must be included in the master site
plan.
   Table 6.8.8: Signs
 
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Max. Area Max. Height General Restrictions
                      Use
Banner Sign   ?                   3’ x 63’
Construction  ?                   4’ x 84’
Flat or Wall  ?                   39 sf.    7’        One sign per business
Sign                                                    location
Monument Sign ?                   39 sf.    6’        One sign per 500’ of
                                                        frontage.
Name Plate    ?                   2’ x 32’
Real Estate   ?                   3’ x 63’
 
   B.   The Planning Commission may approve signs larger than thirty nine (39)
square feet if they meet the following criteria:
      1.   Must be for directional use;
      2.   Must include at least four (4) destinations;
      3.   Must fit into the overall aesthetics of Town’s Master Plan;
      4.   Application process for sign must be complete;
      5.   Must not interfere with a clear view triangle as pertaining to
traffic; and
      6.   Other conditions that may apply.
Chapter 23.
Parking.
   Section
10.23.10.   Parking Requirements.
   Section
10.23.20.   Parking Requirements, Non-Residential.
   Section
10.23.30.   Off-Street Parking.
   Section
10.23.40.   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
   Section
10.23.50.   Number of Spaces Required.
Section 10.23.10. Parking Requirements.
   A.   Parking Requirements for Residential Uses.
      1.   Off-street Parking Requirements. The following minimum number of
off-street parking spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership,
easement, and/or lease for and during the life of the respective uses;
      2.   Parking within the front yard of a single residence use shall be on
or contiguous to a legal driveway.
      3.   Grade/Slope for residential driveways shall not exceed eight (8)
percent (8%). Anything higher shall require approval from the Town Engineer.
   Residential Uses. Parking Spaces Required:
Dwelling Types
Single-family                                              4.0 Spaces/Unit
Two-family                                                 8.0 Spaces/Unit
Three-family                                               12.0 Spaces/Unit
Multi-family**
Efficiency/Studio                                          3 Spaces/Unit
1 Bedroom                                                  3 Spaces/Unit
2 Bedrooms                                                 4 Spaces/Unit
3 Bedrooms                                                 6 Spaces/Unit
**In addition to the required spaces, 0.5 guest stalls per  
bedroom shall be included.
 
Section 10.23.20. Parking Requirements Non-Residential.
   A.   Plan required: Applications for a building permit for new construction,
additions, alterations, or changes in use shall include a site plan at an
appropriate scale that clearly shows proposed site improvements relating to
parking as required by this section. All plans shall show the location,
arrangement and dimensions of off-street parking area(s), parking spaces,
parking lanes, aisles/driveways, points of ingress and egress, walls,
landscaping and barriers. Sidewalks, pedestrian ways, bicycle facilities and
their access shall also be shown. The access or driveway locations, width and
spacing as well as sight lines and distances, the arrangement of spaces, stall
dimensions, surfacing, striping and lighting shall be in compliance with
adopted Town standards.
   B.   All parking lots located within three hundred (300) feet of an improved
Fairfield Town road shall be hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete. The
material shall be approved by an engineer licensed by the State of Utah and be
capable of handling anticipated size and weight of vehicles including Public
Safety vehicles.
   C.   All parking lots located more than three hundred (300) feet from an
improved Fairfield Town road must be improved to the same standards as the
rural road.
   D.   Town Council, with the recommendation of the Planning Commission, may
make variances to these standards based on the following circumstances:
      1.   Public Safety;
      2.   Traffic;
      3.   Consistency of surrounding use; and
      4.   Proposed use.
   E.   All storm water must be maintained on site. Parking lots and drive
approaches may be required to be bordered with a curb and gutter.
   F.   Parking lots shall be designed to avoid backing onto a public street.
   G.   Except for approved on street parking, access to any parking space
within a parking area shall be from a drive aisle and not directly from a
public street.
   H.   Parking areas with more than one (1) aisle must be so arranged that a
car need not enter the street to reach another aisle within the same parking
area
   I.   Depending on circumstances, directional signs may be required to
differentiate between entrance and exit access points to the street.
   J.   Parking lots shall be designed in groupings no larger than two hundred
(200) spaces. Larger lots shall be divided by buildings, plazas, or significant
landscaped areas oriented for pedestrian use.
   K.   Within Structures. The off street parking requirements may be furnished
by providing spaces designed within the principle building or a parking
structure. However, no building permit shall be used to convert said parking
structures into a dwelling unit, living area, or other activity until other
adequate provisions are made to comply with the required off street parking
provisions of this section.
   L.   Circulation Between Bays. Parking areas shall be designed so that
circulation between parking bays occurs within the designated parking lot and
does not depend upon a public street or alley. Parking area designs which
require backing into a public street are prohibited except one (1), two (2) or
three (3) family dwellings.
   M.   Parking lot design shall consider development on adjacent sites. The
Town may require cross access connections/easements to improve traffic
circulation and to enhance public safety.
   N.   Striping. Except for one (1), two (2) and three (3) family dwellings,
all parking stalls shall be marked with painted lines not less than four (4)
inches wide.
   O.   Lighting. Parking lots used during hours of darkness shall be
illuminated. Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area shall
be so arranged as to reflect the light down and/or away from adjoining
property, abutting residential uses and public right-of-ways and shall be a
maximum of twenty five (25) feet in height above the surface of the parking lot
for non-residential uses and sixteen (16) feet for residential uses and meet
all other regulations of outdoor lightning for Fairfield Town.
   P.   Protruding Vehicles. All on site parking stalls shall be designed and
constructed so that parked vehicles shall not protrude over a property line.
Section 10.23.30. Off-street Parking.
   A.   Off street parking spaces shall be provided according to the following
provisions and standards:
      1.   Floor Area. The term “floor area” for the purpose of calculating the
number of required parking spaces shall be the “Gross Floor Area” of the
structures plus defined exterior use areas except as may be provided or
modified herein;
      2.   Change of Use or Occupancy of Buildings. Off street parking and
loading spaces as required herein shall be provided at the time of any new uses
of land or construction of a new building. Any change of use or occupancy of
any building or buildings, including additions thereto, requiring more parking
shall not be permitted until such additional parking spaces as required by this
section are provided;
      3.   Accessible parking for non-residential developments shall be
provided in conformance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Utah
Americans with Disabilities Act (Utah ADA) and International Building Code
(IBC) as amended;
      4.   Accessible parking for multiple family residential developments
shall be provided in conformance with the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA), Federal Fair Housing Act (FFHA) and International Building Code (IBC) as
amended; and
      5.   Parking Stall Dimensions. The following shall be the minimum parking
stall size:
 
Type     Width   Length*
Standard 10 Feet 20 Feet
Parallel 9 Feet  25 Feet
 
   B.   Parking Aisle Dimensions. The following shall be the minimum parking
aisle width:
 
Parking Angle One-Way Aisle Two-Way Aisle
90 degree     24 Feet       24 Feet
60 degree     18 Feet       22 Feet
45 degree     18 Feet       20 Feet
30 degree     18 Feet       20 Feet
 
   C.   All parking shall be provided on site. No parking shall be permitted
within any required setback or landscaped area. Each facility shall provide one
parking space for each on site employee with an additional amount of parking
for drivers and visitors as approved by the Planning Commission and Town
Council.
      1.   Minimum parking spaces required shall be two (2) per one thousand
(1000) sq. feet of gross building floor area. Fairfield Planning Commission may
require more parking spaces depending on building use:
NON-RESIDENTIAL SPACES
USE DESCRIPTIONS PARKING RATIO
NON-RESIDENTIAL SPACES
USE                       DESCRIPTIONS               PARKING RATIO
ADMINISTRATIVE & FINANCIAL
                          Facilities for general
                          office work providing
                          professional, business     One (1) space per two
Professional Offices      administrative,            hundred (200) sq. ft. of
                          informational services, or floor area.
                          facilities that house
                          governmental agencies and
                          similar uses.
                          Institutions providing
                          financial advice and
                          services in a bank, or     One (1) space per one
                          similar financial          hundred fifty (150) sq.
                          institutions, to include   ft. of floor area.
                          accessory office building,
Financial Services        automatic teller machine
                          and similar uses.
                                                     In addition to the above,
                          Financial institutions     a sixty (60) linear feet
                          with drive- through        of stacking space per lane
                          facilities.                exclusive of drive aisles
                                                     and parking spaces.
                                                     One (1) space per two
Unspecified Office Use                              hundred (200) sq. ft. of
                                                     floor area.
AUTOMOBILE RELATED
                                                     Three (3) spaces per
                          Facilities providing       service bay, plus one (1)
                          general vehicle service or space per three hundred
                          repair, and similar        (300) sq. ft. of gross
                          services.                  floor area excluding
Auto Services                                        service bay(s).
                                                     In addition to the above,
                          Facilities providing fast  a queuing space of one
                          or express service bays or hundred (100) linear feet
                          lanes.                     exclusive of drive aisles
                                                     and parking spaces.
                          Facilities for sale or
                          rental of new or used      One (1) space per one
                          auto, boat, RV, truck,     thousand (1000) sq. ft. of
Automobile Rentals or     trailer, camper, motorhome gross floor area, plus one
Dealerships               or Motorcycle. (Outdoor    (1) space per six thousand
                          vehicle display spaces are (6000) sq. ft. outdoor
                          not required to meet       vehicle display area.
                          dimensional requirements
                          of this Chapter).
                          Facilities for towing,
                          dismantling, recycling,    Four (4) spaces or one (1)
Automobile Towing &       impound and storage of     space per one thousand
Impound Facilities        junk vehicles, to include  (1000) sq. ft. of floor
                          sanitary landfills and     area whichever is greater.
                          similar uses.
                                                     One (1) space per three
                                                     hundred (300) sq. ft. of
                          Facilities for the         office floor area, plus a
                          cleaning of vehicles.      queuing space of one
Car Washes                                           hundred (100) linear feet
                                                     exclusive of drive aisles
                                                     and parking spaces.
                          Self service facilities    A minimum of four (4)
                          for the cleaning of        spaces and the
                          vehicles.                  requirements above.
EATING & DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
                                                     One (1) space per one
Restaurants               Eating establishments and  hundred (100) sq. ft. of
                          similar services           floor area including
                                                     outdoor seating.
                          Establishments licensed to One (1) space per fifty
Taverns, Bars, Pubs &     sell alcoholic beverages   (50) sq. ft. of serving
Lounges                   to be consumed on the      area, plus one (1) space
                          premises, often with       per two hundred (200) sq.
                          limited food service.      ft. for preparation area.
ENTERTAINMENT & RECREATION
                          Establishments for adult
                          entertainment that
                          emphasize adult oriented
                          uses and services in an    One (1) space per fifty
                          adult motion picture       (50) sq. ft. of floor
                          theater, arcade, adult     area.
Adult Uses                cabaret, adult motel, nude
                          studio and similar
                          facilities
                          Adult specialty shops for  One (1) space per three
                          purchase of adult books,   hundred (300) sq. ft. of
                          video, and similar         floor area
                          products
                          Facilities providing a
                          variety of indoor public
                          assemblies in a convention One (1) space per two
                          or reception center,       hundred (200) sq. ft. of
Indoor Public Assembly    meeting hall, social or    floor area, or one (1)
                          private club, music hall,  space per four (4) fixed
                          theater and similar        seats of design capacity
                          places, excluding taverns, whichever is greater.
                          bars, pubs, lounges and
                          adult uses.
                          Facilities providing a
                          variety of indoor health
                          and sports activities in a
                          sporting complex, stadium,
                          skating rinks, pool hall,  One (1) space per fifty
                          dance hall, tennis and     (50) sq. ft. of floor
                          racquet clubs, game room,  area.
Indoor Recreation         video arcade, bingo hall,
                          community center, fitness
                          center and similar indoor
                          facilities.
                                                     Two (2) spaces per lane,
                                                     plus two (2) spaces per
                          Bowling Alleys             billiard table, plus one
                                                     (1) space per each five
                                                     visitor gallery seats
                          Facilities providing a
                          variety of outdoor
                          amusement, entertainment,
                          and similar activities in
                          an amusement park,
                          fairground, zoo,
                          auditorium and similar
                          places, to include special
                          outdoor events such as     One (1) space per one
                          carnivals or outdoor       thousand (1000) sq. ft. of
                          concerts. Outdoor          activity area
                          recreations include a
                          variety of outdoor health
Outdoor Amusement &       and sport activities in a
Recreations               racetrack, stables, rodeo
                          ground, outdoor shooting
                          range, swimming and tennis
                          clubs, miniature golf and
                          similar places.
                                                     One (1) space per two
                                                     hundred (200) sq. ft. of
                                                     main building floor area,
                          Golf course and driving    plus one (1) space per
                          range                      every two (2) practice
                                                     tees in driving range,
                                                     plus four (4) spaces per
                                                     each green in the playing
                                                     area.
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL & MANUFACTURING
                                                     One (1) space per seven
                                                     hundred and fifty (750)
Light Industrial and      Facilities providing       sq. ft. of warehouse area
Manufacturing             manufacturing and assembly plus one (1) space per
                          services.                  three hundred (300) sq.
                                                     ft. office or retail floor
                                                     area.
                                                     A minimum of four (4)
                          Facilities providing       spaces and one (1) space
                          exterior storage of        per five thousand (5000)
Outdoor storage           construction equipment and sq. ft. of designated
                          materials, recyclable      outdoor area or one (1)
                          material, and similar      space per three hundred
                          uses.                      (300) sq. ft. office floor
                                                     area whichever is greater.
                                                     One (1) space per seven
                                                     hundred and fifty (750)
Unspecified Industrial                               sq. ft. of warehouse area
Use (Shell Building)                                plus one (1) space per
                                                     three hundred (300) sq.
                                                     ft. office or retail floor
                                                     area.
                                                     One (1) space per one
                          Facilities providing       thousand (1000) sq. ft. of
                          warehousing of material    warehouse area, plus one
Warehousing               and goods and similar      (1) space per three
                          uses.                      hundred (300) sq. ft.
                                                     office floor area.
                          Mini-storage facilities    One (1) space per fifty
                          and similar uses.          (50) units.
                          Facilities providing
                          wholesale or distribution
                          of trucks, trailers,
                          boats, new and used cars,  One (1) space per five
                          bulk fuel, machines,       hundred (500) sq. ft. of
                          appliances, equipment,     sales or display area,
                          building material, lumber, plus one (1) space per one
                          plant nurseries, produce   thousand (1000) sq. ft. of
Wholesale, distribution   and similar merchandise in indoor storage area, plus
                          indoor or outdoor storage  one (1) space per two
                          areas to include machine   hundred (200) sq. ft. of
                          shops, lumberyards,        retail or office floor
                          import/export shops,       area.
                          moving, rental, or storage
                          companies, market sales
                          yards, and similar
                          facilities.
GENERAL RETAIL
                          Establishments providing
                          general retail sales and   One (1) space per three
                          services in a single store hundred (300) sq. ft. of
                          on a single lot, not part  floor area.
                          of a shopping center.
                                                     One (1) space per two
                                                     hundred-fifty (250) sq.
                                                     ft. of floor area.
                                                     Note: for any center with
                                                     more than fifteen percent
                          Establishments providing   (15%) of floor area in
                          general retail sales and   public assembly uses,
                          services in shopping       including theaters,
Retail                    centers (a commercial      restaurants, schools,
                          establishment planned,     health spas, bars or
                          developed, owned or        cocktail lounges, there
                          managed as a unit).        shall be required, in
                                                     addition to these
                                                     standards, ten (10) spaces
                                                     per one thousand (1000)
                                                     sq. ft. of public area
                                                     within these uses.
                          Establishments providing   In addition to the above,
                          drive- through services    one hundred (100) linear
                          including liquor stores,   feet of stacking space
                          laundries and dry          exclusive of drive aisles
                          cleaners, pharmacies and   and parking spaces.
                          similar services.
Unspecified Retail Use                               One (1) space per two
(Shell Building)                                    hundred fifty (250) sq.
                                                     ft. of floor area.
INSTITUTIONAL
                          Facilities providing daily One (1) space per four
Child care                care of children in a      hundred (400) sq. ft. of
                          nursery, daycare or pre-   floor area.
                          school center.
                          Facilities providing
                          public, social, non-
                          profit, or institutional
                          services in a library,
                          museum, art gallery, post
Public, social and        office, treatment,         One (1) space per two
cultural services         detention, or release      hundred (200) sq. ft. of
                          center, halfway house,     floor area.
                          employment agency,
                          shelter, and similar
                          civic/public, cultural,
                          and social institution
                          (excluding group home)
                          Facilities providing       One (1) space per four (4)
                          religious worship or study seats in the main assembly
Religious Assembly        in a church, temple,       area based on design
                          synagogues and similar     capacity.
                          places
                                                     One (1) space per three
                          Public, charter or private (3) fixed seats of the
                          educational institutions   auditorium based on design
                          for Elementary and Junior  capacity plus a minimum of
                          High                       ten (10) spaces for
                                                     visitors parking.
                                                     Two (2) spaces per
School                                               classroom, plus one (1)
                                                     space per employee, plus
                                                     one (1) space per three
                          Senior High                (3) fixed seats of the
                                                     auditorium based on design
                                                     capacity plus a minimum of
                                                     ten (10) spaces for
                                                     visitors parking.
                                                     Five (5) spaces per
                          Public or private          classroom, plus one (1)
                          facilities providing       space per three (3) fixed
Secondary Education       education in a college,    seats of the auditorium
                          university, trade or       based on design capacity
                          vocational school, and     plus a minimum of ten (10)
                          similar institutions       spaces for visitors
                                                     parking.
                          Facilities providing long-
                          term care for seniors in a
Senior care               nursing or convalescent    One (1) space per three
                          home, hospices or similar  (3) beds.
                          care facility (excluding
                          group home)
                          Structures, equipment, or
                          facilities providing for
                          public/private utility &
Utility                   services, including radio, One (1) space per use.
                          television, communication
                          transmission, tower and
                          similar structures
LODGING
                                                     One (1) space per room,
                                                     plus one (1) space per one
                                                     hundred (100) sq. ft. of
                          Places for lodging with    restaurant and bar serving
                          ancillary facilities to    area, plus one (1) space
                          include sleeping rooms,    per one hundred (100) sq.
Hotels or Motels          restaurants, lounges,      ft. of outdoor seating
                          resorts, meeting rooms and serving area, plus ten
                          similar uses               (10) minimum spaces for
                                                     visitors parking, plus one
                                                     (1) space per two hundred
                                                     (200) sq. ft. of meeting
                                                     room floor area.
                          Establishments providing
                          accommodation in a bed and
Lodging Accommodations    breakfast, lodge, to       One (1) space per room.
                          include fraternity,
                          sorority, and similar
                          facilities
                          Facilities providing       One (1) space per two
                          overnight stops in         hundred (200) sq. ft. of
Recreational Resorts      Recreational Vehicle Park, gross activity area, or
                          travel trailer park,       one (1) space per RV or
                          overnight camp ground and  trailer whichever is
                          similar places             greater.
MEDICAL
                          Facilities providing
                          medical, dental, optical
                          care or preventative       One (1) space per two
Medical Offices and       medicine and clinical      hundred (200) sq. ft. of
Clinics                   research studies in a      floor area.
                          clinic or laboratory,
                          including accessory
                          offices
                                                     A minimum thirty (30)
                          Facilities providing       spaces for emergency
Hospitals                 medical or surgical care,  services or two (2) spaces
                          emergency medical and      per bed, plus one (1)
                          similar services           space per employee
                                                     whichever is greater.
                          Establishments for
                          medical, surgical, and     One (1) space per one
Veterinarian Hospitals or emergency care of animal,  hundred fifty (150) sq.
Clinics                   to include veterinary      ft. of floor area.
                          office and clinics without
                          animal boarding
PERSONAL SERVICES
                          Establishments providing
                          general professional
                          services such as cabinet
                          and carpentry making,
                          custom dressmaking and
                          alteration, watch and      One (1) space per two
General Professional      clock repair, dry cleaning hundred (200) sq. ft. of
Services                  & laundry, pet care,       floor area.
                          messenger delivery,
                          photographic developing &
                          printing, blueprint
                          production, travel
                          information & similar
                          professional services
                          Establishments providing
                          personal services such as
                          tanning, massage therapy,  One (1) space per one
Personal Improvement      manicure, hair and beauty  hundred fifty (150) sq.
                          treatment, tattoo and body ft. of floor area.
                          piercing, palm reading,
                          fortune tellers, and
                          similar services
OTHER
                          Facilities providing
                          burial preparation and/or  One (1) space per third
                          funeral services in a      (?) of the maximum
Funeral Services          cemetery, crematorium,     occupancy
                          mausoleum, funeral home     
                          and chapel, mortuaries and
                          similar facilities
Fairfield planning and zoning may require more parking spaces depending on
building use:
Section 10.23.40. Off-Street Loading Requirements.
   A.   General Provisions.
      1.   Unless otherwise specified in this code, loading spaces or berths
shall be at least forty five (45) feet in length and all loading berths shall
be at least twelve (12) feet in width and fourteen (14) feet in height,
exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space and required parking space;
      2.   Loading berths of thirty (30) feet by ten (10) feet for office use,
motels and hotels, restaurants, day care centers, long term care facilities,
and other similar facilities may be provided for all or part of the required
loading berths if approved through the site plan approval process;
      3.   Such space may occupy all or any part of any required yard space,
except front and corner side yards, and shall not be located closer than fifty
(50) feet to any residential zoning unless screened by a masonry wall not less
than ten (10) feet in height. Loading spaces located in side yards shall not be
visible from a public street;
      4.   Sufficient room for turning and maneuvering vehicles shall be
provided on the site so that vehicles shall cross a property line only by
driving forward.
      5.   Each loading berth shall be accessible from a street, alley or from
an aisle or drive connecting with a street or alley, without traversing a
residential zone.
      6.   The loading area, aisles, and access drives shall be paved so as to
provide a durable dust proof surface and shall be graded and drained so as to
dispose of surface water without damage to private or public properties,
streets, or alleys.
      7.   Bumper rails shall be provided at locations where needed for safety
or to protect property.
      8.   If the loading area is illuminated, lighting shall be deflected down
and/or away from abutting residential sites so as to not cause any annoying
glare.
      9.   Noregular repair work or servicing of vehicles shall be conducted in
a loading area.
      10.   Off street loading facilities shall be located on the same site
with the use for which the berths are required.
      11.   If more than one (1) use is located on a site, the number of
loading berths provided shall be equal to the sum of the requirements
prescribed in this section for each use. If more than one (1) use is located on
a site and the gross floor area of each use is less than the minimum for which
loading berths are required but the aggregate gross floor area is greater than
the minimum for which loading berths are required, off street loading berths
shall be provided as if the aggregate gross floor area were used for the use
requiring the greatest number of loading berths.
      12.   Off street loading facilities for a single use shall not be
considered as providing required off-street facilities for any other use.
      13.   At the time of initial occupancy, major alterations or enlargement
of a site, or of completion of construction of a structure or of a major
alteration or enlargement of a structure, there shall be provided off-street
loading berth requirements. The number of loading berths provided for a major
alteration or enlargement of a site or structure shall be in addition to the
number existing prior to the alteration or enlargement.
      14.   Space allocated to any off street loading berth shall not be used
to satisfy the space requirements for any off street parking facility.
Section 10.23.50. Number of Spaces Required.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code every office, hotel, restaurant,
department store, freight terminal or railroad yard, hospital, industrial
plant, manufacturing establishment, retail establishment, storage warehouse or
wholesale establishments, and all other structures devoted to similar
mercantile or industrial pursuits, which has an aggregate gross floor area of
five thousand (5,000) square feet or more shall provide off street truck
loading or unloading berths in accordance with the following table:
 
Square Feet of Aggregate Gross Floor Area Devoted to Required No. of Berths
Such Use
5,000 sq. ft. up to and including 40,000 sq. ft.     1
40,001 sq. ft. up to and including 100,000 sq. ft.   2
100,001 sq. ft. up to and including 160,000 sq. ft.  3
160,001 sq. ft. up to and including 240,000 sq. ft.  4
For each additional 100,000 sq. ft.                  1 additional
 
TITLE 11.
RESERVED
TITLE 12.
DEFINITIONS.
Chapter 1.
Table of Contents.
   Chapter
12.1.00.   Intent.
   Section
12.1.10.   A.
   Section
12.1.20.   B.
   Section
12.1.30.   C.
   Section
12.1.40.   D.
   Section
12.1 50.   E.
   Section
12.1.60.   F.
   Section
12.1.70.   G.
   Section
12.1.80.   H.
   Section
12.1.90.   I.
   Section
12.1.100.   J - K.
   Section
12.1.110.   L.
   Section
12.1.120.   M.
   Section
12.1.130.   N.
   Section
12.1.140.   O.
   Section
12.1.150.   P.
   Section
12.1.160.   Q -R.
   Section
12.1.170.   S.
   Section
12.1.180.   T.
   Section
12.1.190.   U - W.
   Section
12.1.200.   X - Z.
Chapter 12.1.00. Intent.
   Itis the intent of this section to more fully set forth the meaning of
certain terms and phrases utilized within the zoning ordinance in order to
facilitate understanding of said terms and phrases in the sense intended by the
Fairfield Town Council.
   For purposes of this Code, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
“shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
Section 12.1.10. A.
Abandoned Mobile Home/Campers/Trailers. Means a mobile home, camper or trailer
that has been rendered useless from the condition of which it was manufactured.
Abstain. Means the practice of exercising discretion to relinquish the right to
vote when necessary to avoid needless conflict (see conflict of interest).
Accessory Building.  Means a detached building which is incidental, subordinate
and exclusively devoted to a main building or use, located on the same lot.
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU). Means a habitable living unit that may be added
to, created within, or detached from a primary single-family dwelling and
contained on one lot.
Accessory Dwelling Unit, Internal. Means an accessory dwelling unit created
within a primary dwelling, within the footprint of the primary dwelling for the
purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.
Accessory Structure. Means a subordinate structure detached from but located on
the same lot as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal structure.
Administrative Agency. Means the Fairfield Planning Commission, which consists
of the appointed Planning Commissioners.
Administrative Officer. Means the Planning and Zoning Chairman or any of his/
hers duly appointed designees.
Ad Valorem Tax. Means a tax based on the assessed value of an item, such as
real estate or personal property. The most common ad valorem taxes are property
taxes levied on real estate. However, ad valorem taxes may also extend to a
number of tax applications, such as import duty taxes on goods from abroad.
(also known as “property tax”.
Agriculture. Means an area which is used for the commercial production,
keeping, or maintenance for sale of plants and domestic animals typically found
in Utah County, or lands devoted to a soil conservation management program, but
excluding the keeping of prohibited animals, Commercial Plant Nursery, as
defined herein, Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation, as defined by the
U.C.A., 1953, as amended, and subject to the Utah Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (UPDES), or similar activities.
Agricultural Building. Means any structure used for agriculture.
Agricultural Business. Means an enterprise involving agricultural products as
opposed to agricultural production, including, but not limited to, greenhouses
for wholesale or retail sales but does not include the processing or packing
plants.
Alcoholic Beverage Package Agency. Means a liquor location operated under
contractual agreement with the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, by a
person other than the State, who is authorized by the Utah Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission to sell package liquor for consumption off the premises of
the agency.
Alcoholic Beverage State Liquor Store. Means a facility for the sale of
packaged liquor on premises owned or leased by the State of Utah and operated
by State employees. This term does not apply to restaurants, private clubs, or
package agencies.
Anchor Location. Means the Fairfield Town Office in Fairfield Utah or such
other location designated in the agenda for the meeting.
Ancillary Use. Means a use that:
   1.   is clearly incidental to and found in connection with a principal or
main use;
   2.   is subordinate to and serves a principal or main use;
   3.   is subordinate or less than in extent, area, or purpose to the
principal or main use;
   4.   is located on the same lot as the principal or main use; and
   5.   contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants,
business, or industry of the principal or main use; and
   6.   Home Occupations are deemed an ancillary use.
Animal Hospital (large), Large Veterinary Office. Means an establishment at
which all types of farm animals (large, medium, or small) or household pets may
be treated or boarded.
Animal Hospital (small), Small Veterinary Office. Means an establishment at
which small farm animals only or household pets are treated or boarded within a
completely enclosed building, and large animals such as horses are not treated
or boarded.
Apiary. Means a place in which a colony or colonies of bees are kept, such as a
stand or shed for beehives or a bee house containing a number of beehives.
Appeal Authority. Means the Authority designated by code or ordinance to decide
an appeal of a decision of a land use application or a variance.
Applicant. Means the owner of land proposed to be developed, or the owner’s
duly authorized agent if that agent has written authorization from the owner,
who submits a complete application for consideration by the Town; and includes
an individual or entity who is under contract to purchase land proposed to be
developed so long as the individual or entity closes on the project before any
land use application is brought before the Planning Commission for
consideration at a public meeting or hearing.
Application, Telecommunications. Means the process by which a provider submits
a request and indicates a desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the
rights-of-way of all, or a part, of the Town. An application includes all
written documentation, verbal statements and representations, in whatever form
or forum, made by a provider to the Town concerning: the construction of a
telecommunications system over, under, on or through the rights-of-way; the
telecommunications services proposed to be provided by the Town by a provider;
and any other matter pertaining to a proposed system or service.
Approved Topsoil. Means soil that does not exceed 41 ppm (total) arsenic
representatively sampled and analyzed in accordance with the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act.
Area of Special Flood Hazard. Means the land in the Town of Fairfield area
subject to a one percent (1%) chance of flooding in any given year.
Arts and Crafts Sales. Means an establishment that produces articles for sale
of artistic quality or effect or handmade workmanship; and includes candle
making, glass blowing, weaving, pottery making, woodworking, sculpting,
painting, and their associated activities.
Automotive Refueling Station. Means a retail building or premise used primarily
for the sale of gasoline, diesel, natural gas, or electricity to customers for
the purposes of refueling customers’ vehicles. Such premises may also include
the sale of food, drinks, or household products..
Automotive Rental and Leasing Agency. Means rental of passenger vehicles, light
trucks, and vans, including incidental parking and servicing of vehicles for
rent or lease.
Automotive Repair, Major. Means an establishment, not meeting the definition of
Automobile Repair, Minor, primarily engaged in the major repair or maintenance
of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar large mechanical equipment, including
paint, body and fender, major engine and engine part overhaul, and tire repair
and sales, provided it is conducted within a completely enclosed building.
Automobile Repair Minor. Means an establishment that is primarily engaged in
the minor repair or minor maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar
mechanical equipment, including brake, muffler, tire repair and change,
lubrication, oil changes, tune-ups, safety inspections and emissions testing,
and detailing, is conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, and
does not include paint work, body and fender work, or major engine and engine
part overhaul. “Minor repair” or “minor maintenance” is defined as a routine
service that requires no more than 8 total hours of service.
Automobile Sales. Means the premises on which new or used passenger
automobiles, non-motorized trailers, or trucks in operating condition are
displayed in the open for sale or trade.
Section 12.1.20 . B.
Bakery, Commercial. Means a place for preparing, cooking, baking, and selling
of products intended for off-premise distribution only.
Bakery, Retail. Means an establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of
baked products for human consumption. It may include bakery products prepared
either on or off site, be an incidental food service or be considered a general
retail use.
Base Flood. Means the flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year.
Basement House. Means a one-story dwelling of which fifty percent (50%) or more
of the floor area is below the finished grade.
Bed and Breakfast. Means a transient lodging establishment, generally in a
single family dwelling or detached guesthouses, primarily engaged in providing
overnight or otherwise temporary lodging for the general public and may provide
meals for compensation. (Also called a
Bid. Means a formal quotation based on common specifications, for the provision
of goods or services. Opened at a public meeting for consideration and award.
Billboard. Means a sign which meets any one or more of the following criteria:
   1.   A permanent structure sign which is used for the display of off-site
commercial messages;
   2.   A permanent structure sign which constitutes a principal, separate or
secondary use, as opposed to an accessory use, of the parcel on which it is
located;
   3.   An outdoor sign used as advertising for hire, e.g., on which display
space is made available to parties, other than the owner or operator of the
sign or occupant of the parcel (not including those who rent space from the
sign owner, when such space is on the same parcel as the sign), iin exchange
for a rent, fee or other consideration; or
   4.   An off-site outdoor advertising sign on which space is leased or
rented.
Block. Means the land surrounded by streets and other rights-of-way, other than
alleys; or land which is designated or shown as a block on any recorded
subdivision plat or official map or plat adopted by the Town.
Bond. Means a document that complies with the standards contained in this Title
and the Utah Code and binds the parties thereto to take certain action if
particular conditions are not met. The terms “Performance Bond” and “Warranty
Bond” are more specifically defined in this section.
Bond Agreement. Means an agreement between the developer and the Town, on forms
approved by the Town, wherever a performance bond or warranty bond is required
by this Title to install improvements secured by an escrow agreement with funds
on deposit in a reputable, federally-insured financial institution, a cash bond
deposited with the Town, or a letter of credit from a reputable, federally-
insured financial institution in an amount as specified in this Title.
Bookstore. Means a retail establishment whose primary purpose is the sale of
books and periodicals.
Buildable. Means that portion of a building lot not included within any
required yard or open space upon which a main building may be located; an area
that must be defined on subdivision plats in areas of thirty percent slope or
less.
Buildable Area. Means an area of a lot or parcel which is outside of any
required setback areas and outside of any other areas regulated by this Code.
Building. Means a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls,
intended or used for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any person, animal,
chattel, or property of any kind that has a foundation.
Building Code. Means the codes adopted by the Town by ordinance/code.
Building Height or Structure Height. Means the vertical distance from the
natural grade surface to the highest point of the building or structure.
Building Inspector. Means an individual appointed by the Town of Fairfield to
enforce the provisions of the building code.
Building Lot. Means a parcel of land which is of such dimensions as to comply
with the minimum requirements of this Title for area, width, and depth
applicable to the zone in which it is located; and having frontage on a public
or approved private street which shall be extended the full required frontage
of the lot and improvements installed as required by the Town. No building lot
shall utilize any part of the temporary end or dead end of a street for
frontage.
Building Material Sales (with outdoor storage). Means a facility where building
materials such as lumber, plywood, drywall, paneling, cement blocks and other
cement products, and other building products are stored and sold.
Building Official or Town Building Official. Means the appointed official or
consultant who is responsible for the building and development functions of the
Town as described in the Code and other policies of the Town.
Building, Public. Means a building owned and operated or owned and intended to
be operated by a public agency of the United States of America, or the State of
Utah or any of its subdivisions including counties and municipalities, in
connection with a public use. It does not include buildings primarily used as
warehouses, public garages, and equipment sheds.
Business. Means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship,
joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.
Business, Trade, Profession or Calling. Means any enterprise carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except the acts of employees rendering
services for employers.
Business Use. Means any property used for the purpose of conducting business.
This would include the square footage of outbuildings including storage and
yard space.
Bus Lot. Means any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of
passenger buses or motor coaches.
Section 2.1.30. C.
Camping. Means recreational or temporary activity which involves staying
overnight in the open, in a tent,or in a trailer, camper, or other recreation
vehicle.
Campground and/or Campsite Facility. Means a location where camping occurs
which has one or more recreational vehicle pads, tent sites, or other campsites
established on the premises. Also, a campground may include one or more of the
following ancillary facilities: automobile parking spaces, driveways, tables,
water faucets or fixtures, electrical lights or hookups, fire pits or
fireplaces, play fields and outdoor recreational facilities, and restrooms or
other sewage disposal facilities.
Carport. Means a roofed-over structure which is not completely enclosed by
walls and which is designed and/or used for the storage of automobiles and
trailers.
Car Wash (full service). Means a car wash with facilities for the washing or
waxing of automobiles, light trucks, and vans, which may include drying
equipment, vacuums, and other incidental uses. Full service car washes shall
not include open self-service bays.
Car Wash (self service). Means a business establishment which provides car
cleaning services where part or all of the cleaning is performed by the patron
for a fee.
Catch Basin. MeansAn inlet designed to intercept and redirect surface waters.
Cemetery. Means the use or intended use of land for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including a columbarium, crematorium,
mausoleum, and mortuary when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundaries of such a cemetery.
Cemetery, Private. Means a burial place for deceased persons which is
maintained by a private individual, corporation, or other non-public agency.
Cemetery, Public. Means a burial place for deceased persons which is owned and
maintained by a cemetery district or other public agency.
Certificate of Occupancy. Means a document granting permission to occupy or use
a building or land and certifying that the structure or use conforms to the
requirements set forth in applicable code and ordinances.
Change Order. Means a written order signed by the purchasing agent, directing
the contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses
of the contract authorize the purchasing agent to order without the consent of
the contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point,
rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity or other provisions of
any contract accompanied by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
Child Care Center. Means a non-residential building or structure where care,
protection, and supervision are provided for children on a regular schedule,for
a fee.
Church. Means a building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for worship and that is maintained and controlled by
a religious body organized to sustain public worship.
Clear View Area. Means areas at intersecting streets and driveways where
unobstructed vision is maintained, as required by this code.
Cluster Development. Means a design that locates buildings in specific areas of
a site to allow the remaining land to be used, but not limited to, recreation,
open space, and preservation of sensitive land areas.
Code. Means the Town of Fairfield Municipal Code, as adopted.
Codification code. Means any or all ordinances of a municipality which have
been enacted that are compiled, consolidated, revised, indexed and arranged in
a comprehensive manner.
Colony. Means bees in any hive including queens, workers, or drones.
Commercial and Industrial Laundries. Means an establishment which launders or
dry cleans articles on site and where all articles are dropped off on the
premises by multiple laundry services and not the individual customers.
Commercial Center. Means a development which contains at least twelve acres of
commercial land and at least 100,000 square feet of commercial floor space.
Commercial Plant Nursery. Means a use wholly, or partially, contained within
one or more greenhouses where trees, shrubs, flowers, or vegetable plants are
grown and sold to retail or wholesale customers.
Commercial Recreation. Means any commercial enterprise which receives a fee in
return for the provision of some recreational activity including racquet clubs,
health facilities, and amusement parks, but not including amusement centers.
Commercial Vehicle. Means a motor vehicle, vehicle, trailer or semi trailer
used or maintained for business, compensation or profit to transport passengers
or property on a highway, if the commercial vehicle:
   1.   Has a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating or gross combination
weight rating of ten thousand one (10,001) or more pounds;
   2.   Is designed to transport more than fifteen (15) passengers, including
the driver; or
      Is used in the transportation of hazardous materials and is required to
be placarded in accordance with 49 CFR (Code of Federal Regulations) part 172,
subpart F.
Common Area. Means an area designed to serve two (2) or more dwelling units in
separate ownership or tenure.
Commuter/Light Rail Station. Means a place designated for commuter or light
rail trains or cars to stop to allow for boarding of passengers including park-
and-ride stations and transfer stations.
Computation of Time. Means the time within which an act is to be done; computed
by excluding the first and including the last day, and if the last day falls on
a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
Comprehensive Plan. See “General Plan”.
Concept Plan. Means a sketch or concept application created prior to the
preliminary plat for subdivisions or prior to a site plan for non residential
development to enable the Town to verify that the developer is in general
compliance with the Town’s ordinances and development regulations and policies.
Conditional Use. Means a land use that, because of its unique characteristics
or potential impact on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent
land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if
certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental
impacts.
Conditional Use Permit. Means a permit issued byFairfield Town outlining the
requirements of approval for a conditional use and including    written
conditions, as well as final, approved development plans, if applicable.
Condominium. Means the ownership of a single unit in a multi-family structure
or a structure combined with an undivided interest in the common areas and
facilities of the property and that meets all requirements of the Utah
Condominium Ownership Act.
Condominium Project. Means a real estate condominium project; a plan or project
whereby two (2) or more units, whether contained in existing or proposed
apartments, commercial or industrial buildings or structures or otherwise, are
separately offered or proposed to be offered for sale.
Condominium Unit. Means a separate physical part of the condominium project
property intended for any type of independent use, including one (1) or more
rooms or spaces located in one (1) or more floors (or part or parts of floors)
in a building or a time period unit, as the context may require.
Conflict of Interest. Means a term used in connection with a public official’s
relationship to matters of private interest or personal gain and which
prohibits participation in the discussion under decision.
Constitutional Taking. Means a governmental action that results in a taking of
private property so that compensation to the owner of the property is required
by the Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States
or Utah Constitution Article I, Section 22.
Construction Equipment. Means any equipment or device designed and intended for
use in construction, or material handling, including but not limited to:
hammers, saws, drills, augers, air compressors, pile drivers, pneumatic or
hydraulic tools, bulldozers, tractors, excavators, trenchers, cranes, derricks,
loaders, scrapers, pavers, generators, off-highway haulers or trucks, ditchers,
compactors , rollers, pumps, concrete mixers, graders, or other material
handling equipment;
Continuous Sound. Means any sound that exists essentially without interruption
for a period of 10 minutes or more.
Control or Controlling Interest. Means a shareholder, or a group acting in
kind, that holds a majority of a company’s voting stock.
Construction Yard. Means any parcel of ground used for the storage of
construction equipment or supplies.
Contract. Means any Town agreement for the procurement or disposal of supplies,
services or construction.
Contract Construction Services Establishments. Means establishments or places
of business primarily engaged in retail or wholesale sales, from the premises
of; materials used in the construction of buildings or other structures.
Contract Services Office. Means an enclosed space containing the permanent
business office for a landscape, plumbing, painting, construction, or similar
contractor, and used for the housing and operating of company machinery, the
provision of services, the storage of materials and equipment, and the
maintenance of company equipment, but that does not include outdoor storage
other than the parking of company and passenger vehicles. Equipment such as
backhoes and front loaders are considered as equipment, not vehicles.
Convenience Store. Means a building or use which is primarily engaged in the
provision of frequently needed, day to day retail goods including gasoline,
food, and non-food products.
Convenience Store/Fast Food Combination”. Means a building that houses a
convenience store and either a fast food (restaurant, casual) establishment or
a restaurant (sit-down).
Copy Center. Means a retail establishment that provides duplicating services
using photocopying, blueprint, and offset printing equipment and may include
the collating and binding of booklets and reports.
Corner Lot. Means a lot that abuts two (2) intersecting streets, where the
interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred
thirty-five (135) degrees.
Corral. Means a place or pen where livestock is held.
Correctional Institution. Means a government owned and operated institution for
the Court ordered, twenty-four hour, involuntary, secure confinement of adults
and juveniles in jails, prisons, detention centers, secure confinement centers,
etc., for criminal conduct or conduct which would be a crime if committed by an
adult.
Council. Means The Town Council of the Town of Fairfield.
Crematory/Embalming Facility. Means a building used for the cremation and/or
embalming of deceased persons or animals but not including facilities for
burial, internment, body viewing, or funeral services.
Critical Acceleration. Means the minimum amount of ground acceleration during
seismically induced ground. 
Critical Age of Repose. Means the maximum slope or angle at which material such
as soil or loose rock remains stable.
Critical Facilities. Means communication, utility and transportation lines
(including their appurtenant structures which are essential to make the system
function, such as switching stations, transformers and monitoring gauge
houses); emergency facilities such as fire stations, police stations, ambulance
facilities, and hospitals; unique or large structures whose failure might be
catastrophic, such as dams holding over ten (10) acre feet of water, petroleum
refineries, and buildings where explosive, toxic or radioactive materials are
manufactured, stored or handled; high occupancy buildings which are designed to
accommodate fifty (50) or more people, such as schools, hotels and offices.
Cyclically Varying Noise. Means any sound that varies in sound level so that
the same level is obtained repetitively at successive, relatively uniform
levels over time. Example: Back-up beeper on heavy equipment.
Section 12.1.40. D.
Dairy. Means a farming operation for the production of milk in commercial
quantities and which is required to be regularly inspected by the State
Department of Agriculture or its cooperating agencies; and includes the raising
of the natural increase to the dairy herd but does not include the feeding and
fattening of livestock for slaughter in conjunction therewith.
DeMinimis. Means lacking significance or importance: so minor as to merit
disregard.
Debris Flow. Means a mass of rock fragments, soil, and mud which, when wet,
moves in a flow-like fashion. Debris flows will follow a confined channel, but
may alter course if present on an alluvial/debris fan surface.
Decibel (dB). Means a unit of measure used to express intensity of noise.
Density. Means the number of dwelling units or sleeping rooms per acre of land.
Depth. Means, when measuring an inside lot, the distance from the front lot
line and rear lot line as measured from the center line; or when measuring a
corner lot, means the horizontal distance between opposite boundaries of the
lot when measured along the lot’s centerline.
Destination Oriented Development. Means a building or group(s) of buildings
with facilities to accommodate the needs of residents, visitors, or tourists
with large portions of the site devoted to recreational opportunities.
Detached. Means freestanding with open space on all four sides.
Developer. Means any person or organization that develops, or intends to
develop or sell property for the purpose of future development subject to the
provisions of this Code., or other Land Use Ordinances.
Development Activity. Means any of the following:
   1.   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved lands, including but not
limited to buildings or structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations;
   2.   Any construction, reconstruction, or expansion of a building,
structure, or use;
   3.   Any change in the use of a building or structure;
   4.   Any change in the use of land that creates additional demand and need
for public facilities or services;
   5.   The act of subdividing; or
   6.   The act, process or result of developing.
Development Agreement. Means a written agreement or amendment to a written
agreement between a municipality and one or more parties that regulates or
controls the use or development of a specific area of land.
Development Review Committee (DRC). Means an informal committee or group of
Town staff or Town consultants whose responsibility is to review all
development requests, process all development applications, and make
recommendations with respect to development applications to the Planning
Commission, Town Council, applicants, and Mayor. The DRC’s membership includes
the Town Mayor, Town Engineer, Planning Department, Town Fire Chief, Town
Building Official, Town Attorney, and any other person or agent that the Town
Mayor deems appropriate to function as a member of the committee.
Development Site. Means the perimeters and total area of a tract, lot, or
parcel of land intended to be used for a development activity.
Development Standards. Means established regulations concerning lot areas, yard
setbacks, building height, lot coverage, open space and any other special
regulations deemed necessary to accomplish the purpose of this Ordinance or
other Land Use Ordinances.
Device. “Device” means a mechanism that is intended to produce, or that
actually produces, noise when operated or handled.
Dog Kennels/Sanctuary. Means premises where four (4) or more dogs older than
four (4) months are kept for commercial boarding, breeding or sale.
Double Access. Means driveway access on public streets from the front and the
rear. This definition does not apply to corner lots.
Driveway, Shared. Means a private roadway that is owned and maintained by one
or more than one property owner and provides direct vehicular access between a
public or private roadway and a parking area, garage, or other structure to
serve more than one dwelling or on more than one lot or parcel.
Driveway, Single. Means a private roadway that is owned and maintained by one
property owner and provides direct vehicular access between a public or private
roadway and a parking space, garage, dwelling, or other structure on a single
lot or parcel.
Dry Cleaner. Means an establishment which launders or dry cleans articles
dropped off on the premises directly by the customer; or where articles are
dropped off, sorted, and picked up, but where laundering or cleaning is done
elsewhere.
Dwelling. Means a structure designed for and occupied by one (1) family,
including provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
This definition does not include hotels, apartment hotels, boarding houses,
rooming houses, and tourist courts.
Dwelling, Above Commercial. Means a building which contains dwellings located
above the ground floor of a commercial, office, or retail use.
Dwelling, Caretakers. Means a dwelling which is occupied by an individual or
family whose function it is to operate, manage, or protect a business, or
industry.
Dwelling, Farm Caretaker. Means a manufactured home, one-family dwelling, or
unit of a duplex or multiple-family dwelling having not more than 4 dwelling
units, which is associated with a farm, and where the chief source of income
comes from the farm unit.
Dwelling, Multi-Family. Means a building or buildings sharing common walls or
common interior floors and containing three or more dwellings.
Dwelling, Primary. Means a single family dwelling that is detached and is
occupied as the primary residence of the owner of record.
Dwelling, Single Family. Means a residential dwelling not attached to any other
dwelling; on a single lot that is arranged for, designed for, and occupied by
not more than one family (as defined herein); and containing at least one
bathroom, at least one kitchen, and living and sleeping facilities.
Dwelling, Two-Family. Means a single residential building under a continuous
roof, the structure containing only two dwellings sharing common interior walls
or common interior floors.
Dynamic Braking Device. Means a device used primarily on trucks for the
conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine to an air
compressor for the purposes of braking without the use of wheel brakes,
commonly referred to as “Jacob’s Brake” or “Jake Brake.”
Section 12.1.50. E.
Easement. Means that portion of a property reserved for present or future use
under, on, or above the property by a person or agency other than the legal fee
owner or owners of the property.
Edge Use. Means a use allowed on the outside boundary of a specific land use
zone that also has frontage on the collector or arterial roadway.
Educational Center. Means an institution for the teaching of children or
adults, including colleges, professional schools, dance schools, business
schools, trade schools, and art schools.
Electric Power Distribution. Means the final stage in the delivery of electric
power; it carries electricity from the substation to individual consumers.
Primary distribution lines carry this medium voltage power to distribution
transformers located near the customer's premises.
Electric Power Transmission Line. Means a system of structures, wires,
insulators and associated hardware that carry electric energy from one point to
another in an electric power system.
Electronic Meeting. Means a public meeting of the public body convened and
conducted by means of a telephonic conference device or other electronic means,
allowing each member of the Council to call, video conference, or otherwise
participate concurrently with all other members of the public body in conduct
of the meeting. No more than three (3) members of the public body may
participate in the meeting by electronic means at one time. There must always
be at least two (2) public body members at the anchor location unless a written
determination is made by the chair of the public body that determines an anchor
location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may
be present at an anchor location as described in Utah state Code 52-4-207
Electronic Sales and Repair. Means a retail establishment that deals in the
sale and repair of electronics.
Emergency. Means a situation or occurrence which, in the opinion of the mayor
or agent of the mayor, may present an imminent threat to the health, safety or
welfare of any person, place or property.
Emergency Vehicle. Means an automobile or truck suitable for use on
conventional public streets, which is operated by police, fire, ambulance,
health department, building inspection, or business regulations personnel.
Emergency Work. Means work required to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity or to protect persons or property from an imminent
exposure to danger.
Enclosed Parking. Means a fully-enclosed attached or detached residential
accessory building designed or used for the storage of private passenger
automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
accessory. A private garage designed and constructed as an architectural and
integral part of the main building shall be subject to all the requirements of
this Code applicable to main buildings.
Engaging in Business. “Means the sale of tangible personal property at retail
or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or property, and the rendering of
personal services for others for consideration by persons engaged in any
profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or other calling, except the
rendering of personal services by an employee to an employer under any contract
of personal management. “Engaging in Business” also includes agricultural
industries, but not farming or ranching.
Engineer, Town. Means the appointed official or consultant who is responsible
for the Engineering functions of the Town as described in this chapter and
other ordinances and policies of the Town.
Equestrian Center. Means an establishment engaged in the boarding, feeding, or
general care of horses or other large animals for personal or commercial
purposes; and includes uses such as agriculturally oriented gatherings,
assemblies and shows, and the sale of feed, tack, and other agricultural
products.
Equipment Sales and Service. Means an establishment located no closer than
three hundred (300) feet (as measured from the property lines) to any
residential zone that is primarily engaged in the sale or rental of tools, lawn
and garden equipment, including outdoor storage and incidental maintenance.
Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). Means a unit of measurement used to measure
and evaluate development impacts on public infrastructure such as water, sewer,
storm drainage, parks, roads, and public safety of proposed residential and
non-residential land uses; and is intended to represent the equivalent impact
on public infrastructure of one single family residence.
Established Grade. Means the measured grade of a piece of land at time of
subdivision or site plan approval, shown on the final subdivision plat or site
plan, and from which the height of future structures will be measured.
Section 12.1.60. F.
Fairfield Town Council. Means the elected officials of the Town Council of
Fairfield, State of Utah.
Fairfield Town Road. Means all roads commonly used as a means of travel within
Fairfield Town which have been designated as Fairfield Town roads by the Town
of Fairfield or by the State Highway Commission or by any dedication duly and
properly recorded, or have been used as public roads within the past ten years
or as a result of long accustomed usage. The term “roads' ' shall include both
hard surfaced and any other surfaces. The roads in this instance shall include
the surfaced travel portions of the shoulders, barrow pits and any and all
properties within the right-of-way of said road.
Fairfield Town Road Right of Way. Means any right of way owned by the Fairfield
Town, whether as a result of a deed or other formal conveyance or as a result
of long accustomed usage.
Family.  Means a person or persons living together in a single family dwelling.
“Family” does not include any group of individuals whose association is
temporary or seasonal in nature or who are in a group living arrangement
because of criminal offenses.
Family, Single Family Limit Designation. Means the number of individuals
allowed to occupy each residential unit that is recognized by a land use
authority in a zone permitting occupancy by a single family. A municipality may
not adopt a single-family limit that is less than three (3), if the
municipality has within its boundary a state university, or a private
university with a student population of at least 20,000 or four (4) for each
other municipality. (Ut. St. Code 10-9a-505.5) 5/5/2021.
Farm. Means a business enterprise, or personal family use in which land is used
for the growing of food, feed, or fiber for sale in commercial quantities.
Farm Animals. Means animals kept or raised primarily for, or incidental to,
livestock or agricultural operations, which are grouped into the following
categories:
   Large Farm Animals: Large farm animals include the following:
   Cow;
   Horse (mule-ass, pony, or similar species not listed);
   Ostrich (or other similar sized or closely related species);
   Llama or other similar species not listed; and
   Other animals of similar size.
 
   Medium Farm Animals: Medium farm animals include the following:
   Sheep;
   Emu;
   Goat;
   Turkey;
   Geese;
   Peacock; and
   Other animals of similar size.
   Small Farm Animals: Small farm animals include the following:
   Chicken;
   Rabbit;
   Ducks;
   Pheasants; and
   Other animals of similar size (excluding mink)
Farmers Market. Means a group of entities engaged in the temporary seasonal
selling of homemade goods, homegrown vegetables, and other similar items in an
open air market.
FCC. Means the Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
Feedlot. See "Livestock Feed Yard".
Fee Schedule. Means the list or appendix of fees, also known as the Fairfield
Town Fee Schedule, adopted periodically by the governing body which sets forth
various fees charged by the Town.
FEMA. Means Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Fence. Means an artificially constructed barrier to identify a property
boundary or enclose a space.
Fence, Barbed Wire. Means a fence with one or more strands of wire or other
material having intermittent or continuous sharp points that may puncture,
tear, cut, or snag. This does not include razor wire.
Fence, Private / Privacy. Means a fence constructed to prevent views through
the fence.
Fence, Semi Private. Means a fence with a regular pattern that permits views
through a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the fence when viewed
perpendicular to the plane of the fence.
Fence, Wire. Means an open mesh fence made of woven wire, or any other fence
where the majority of construction consists of wire, including chain link, no
climb, and other agricultural style wire fences but not including razor wire.
Festival (including Bazaars or Fairs). Means an activity or event that may only
include shows, games, non-mechanical rides, concessions, or any combination
thereof.
Final Plat. Means a map of a subdivision which is prepared for final approval
and recordation, which has been accurately surveyed so that streets, alleys,
blocks, lots, and other divisions thereof can be identified as meeting any
other requirements of this Ordinance or State or County Statutes.
Financial Institution. Means an establishment whose principal purpose is the
handling of monetary affairs for members, clients, or the public at large;
includes banks, credit unions, savings and loans, mortgage offices, investment
companies, trust companies, and similar entities; and does not include Non-
Depository Institutions.
Finished Surface Grade. Means the elevation of the finished ground surface
adjacent to and measured along all exterior walls.
Fire Code. Means the International Fire Code adopted by the Town by ordinance.
Fire Authority. Means the department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of fire protection and
suppression services for the subject property.
Fire Department. Means the Cedar Valley Fire Department and any member working
for the department.
FIRM. Means Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
Fitness Center. Means a facility where members or nonmembers use equipment or
space for the purpose of physical exercise.
Flag Lot. Means a lot that is so named because of the long, slender strip of
land resembling a flag pole that extends from the typically rectangular main
sections of these lots, or the “flags”, out to the street. All lots require
frontage and each “flag pole” typically provides just enough frontage for
vehicle access and is often shared by several neighbors.
Flood Channel. Means a natural or artificial water course with the definite bed
and banks to confine and conduct flood water.
Flood Insurance Rate Map. Means, in abbreviated style in this chapter, FIRM.
Flood Insurance Study. Means the most current official report provided by the
Federal Insurance Administration entitled "Flood Insurance Study, Fairfield,
Utah, Incorporated Areas" wherein flood profiles, a flood boundary - floodway
map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood are contained.
Flood or Flooding. Means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land area from the overflow of inland
waters, and/or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
Flood Plain. Means a land area subject to being inundated by water from any
source and is generally defined as a “zone A” (100 year flood area) area as
defined in FEMA’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps of the Town of Fairfield.
Floodway Map. Means the publication entitled "Floodway Flood Boundary and
Floodway Map, Fairfield, Utah", wherein the Federal Insurance Administration
has delineated the boundaries of the floodways in the unincorporated portion of
Fairfield Town.
Floor Area. Means the sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of
the building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior
walls.
Floral Sales. Means a retail business whose principal activity is the selling
of plants and flowers which are not grown on the site and where business is
conducted within an enclosed building.
Foster Care Home. Means a building containing a dwelling unit and associated
group quarters wherein room, board, care, and a family environment are provided
by the resident family to not more than six (6) minor children who are not
related to such family. Such children may not include delinquent, problem, or
troubled youth (see "youth group home" use), but youth placed in the home for
their own protection and care. To qualify, the home must be approved for such
use and operate under the supervision of the State Department of Social
Services.
Franchise. Means the rights and obligations extended by the Town to a provider
to own, lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights-of-
way within the boundaries of the Town. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include:
   1.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the Town required by the
ordinances and laws of the Town;
   2.   Any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection
with operations on rights-of-way or public property including, without
limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits
or other structures, whether owned by the Town or a private entity, or for
excavating or performing other work in or along the rights-of-way.
Franchise Agreement. Means a contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter between the Town and a franchisee that sets forth,
subject to this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will
be exercised.
Front. Means the front of the lot shall be defined as the same side as the road
used for frontage and primary access no matter what direction the building is
facing.
   Frontage. Means the distance between the two side lot lines of a parcel
measured along the street, or streets of a corner lot, which the parcel is
allowed to access. State or Federal highways, to which no access is allowed,
shall not be considered as frontage. For purposes of this Title neither
temporary turn-arounds nor dead ends of roadways shall be used as frontage. On
cul-de-sacs, frontage may be measured at the front building setback lines.
Front of the Lot. Means the same side as the road used for frontage and primary
access no matter what direction the building is facing.
Front Yard. See “Yard, Front”.
Fueling Station. Means that portion of the property where flammable or
combustible liquids or gases used as fuel are stored and dispensed from fixed
equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles.
Fueling Station, Cardlock Facility. Means an automated vehicle fuel sales
facility without an attendant.
Funeral Home. Means a building used for the preparation and embalming of
deceased persons for viewing, burial, and cremation of deceased persons and the
conducting of rituals connected therewith before burial or cremation; and may
include a chapel for the conducting of funeral services, areas for funeral
services and gatherings, and areas for the display of funeral equipment.
Section 12.1.70. G.
Garage Commercial. Means a building or portion thereof designed and used for
storage, repair or servicing of motor vehicles or boats as a business.
Garage Residential. Means an attached or detached residential building designed
or used for the storage of private passenger automobiles that is ancillary to
the use of the residence. A garage shall be designed and constructed as an
architectural and integral part of the main building and shall be subject to
all the requirements of this Title applicable to the main building.
Garbage. Means any non-putrescible solid wastes, including ashes consisting of
both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, metal
containers, glass, bedding, crockery, bags, rags, and demolished materials.
General Fund. Means the general operating fund of the municipality used to
account for all financial resources except those required to be accounted for
in a special fund.
General Plan. Means a plan within the meaning of sections of 10-9a-103, 10-9a-
301, and 10-9a-302 of the Utah Code Annotated 1953, which has been recommended
by the Planning Commission and adopted by the Fairfield Town Council to set
forth general guidelines for the proposed future development of land. The plan
may include elements concerning land use, transportation, the environment,
public services, redevelopment, economics, plan implementation and other
topics. The plan, however, is only an advisory guide for land use decisions.
Geologist. Means the Town Geologist or contracted firm.
Golf Course. Means a parcel of land laid out for at least three holes for
playing the game of golf and improved with trees, greens, fairways, and
possible hazards, and which may also include a clubhouse, shelter, or other
associated buildings that are incidental to the parcel of land dedicated to the
game of golf.
Grade. Means, when related to buildings, the average elevation of the ground
adjacent to the building; when used for streets and driveways, grade shall mean
the ratio of vertical distance to horizontal distance along such a street or
driveway expressed in either percentage or degree.
Grading. Means the excavation or removal of earth material by artificial means,
the filling or deposition of earth material by artificial means, or the
combination thereof.
Grading Permit. Means a permit issued by the Town to remove or excavate large
portions of a parcel or parcels in preparation for development activity or
construction of infrastructure or buildings.
Grazing. Means the act of eating herbage growing from the ground.
Grocery Store. “Means a store where most of the floor area is devoted to the
sale of food products for home preparation and consumption; that typically also
offers other home care and personal care products; and that is substantially
larger and carries a broader range of merchandise than convenience stores.
Gross Revenue. Means all revenues of a provider that may be included as gross
revenue within the meaning of Title 11, Chapter 26, Utah Code Annotated 1953,
as amended. In the case of any provider not covered within the ambit of Title
11, Chapter 26, Utah Code Annotated 1953, the definition of “gross revenue”
shall be set forth in the franchise agreement.
Group Quarters. Means a dwelling such as a lodge, dormitory, or barracks which
contains a large bedroom, several sleeping rooms, or other sleeping facilities
for the use of unrelated individuals or several family members (who may or may
not be related).
Section 12.1.80. H.
Hair Salon. Means a retail business whose principal activity is the cutting,
coloring, and styling of hair; and that may provide other services such as nail
painting and wax treatments.
Hardware and Home Improvement Retail. Means an establishment providing the sale
or rental of building supplies, construction equipment, or home fixtures and
accessories; and includes a lumber yard or a contractors’ building supply
business and may include outdoor storage or tool and equipment sales or rental.
Hard Surfaced. Means covered with concrete, brick, asphalt, or other impervious
material.
Health Department. Means the Utah County Health Department and any member
working for the Department.
Highways. Means roadways owned by the State of Utah or Utah County. It shall
include both hard surfaces and other surfaces. The highways shall include the
surfaced travel portions of the shoulders, barrow pits and any and all
properties within the right of way of said road.
Historical Monument. Means a commemorative plaque, sign, or stone pillar placed
by the Utah State Historical Society or other governmental entity, or placed
under its sponsorship, on a site listed in the National Register of Historic
Places or State Register of Historic Places.
Home Based Business. Means any type of commercial activity, commercial storage,
or any business conducted primarily out of a residence for the purpose of
economic gain in any area of Fairfield Town which meets the criteria found in
Chapter 17.65 of Fairfield Town Ordinance, Home Businesses.
Home, Manufactured. Means a transportable factory built housing unit
constructed on or after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or
more sections, that: in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width
or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 400 or more
square feet and is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and include the plumbing, healing, air conditioning and electrical
systems. Utah State Code 15A-1-302
   Manufacturing. “Manufacturing” means the assembling, altering, converting,
fabricating, finishing, processing, or treatment of a product. This word is
used interchangeably with Industrial.
Home, Mobile. Means a transportable factory built housing unit built before
June 15, 1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code which existed prior
to the HUD Code.
Home, Modular. Means a structure built from sections that are manufactured in
accordance with the State Construction Code and transported to a building site
and the purpose of which is for human habitation, occupancy or use.
Home Occupation. Means an occupation or business activity which results in a
product or service that is conducted in whole or in part in the dwelling unit
(including garage or workshop in the dwelling unit) or in a detached garage or
workshop on the same lot as the dwelling unit and is subordinate to the
residential use of the dwelling unit and must obtain a business license.
Home Office. A home office is a space designated in a person’s residence for
official business purposes. It provides a space for those that are self-
employed or work remotely for an employer.
Hospital. Means an institution licensed by the State of Utah which provides
diagnostic, therapeutic, and rehabilitative services to individuals on both an
inpatient and outpatient basis by or under the supervision of one or more
physicians and/or properly licensed practitioners. Any medical clinic or
professional office which offers inpatient or overnight care, or operates on a
twenty-four hour basis, shall be considered a hospital. A hospital may include
integral support service facilities such as laboratories, outpatient units,
training facilities and offices necessary to the operation of the hospital.
      This definition includes both general, acute and specialty hospitals and
must be licensed by the Utah Department of Health pursuant to the Health Care
Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
Hotel. Means a building containing guest rooms in which lodging is provided for
compensation to transient or permanent guests or both.
Household Pet. Means any animal, which is normally domesticated and customarily
kept for personal_use or enjoyment in a residential_zone. For purposes of this
code, ordinary household_pets shall include, but not be limited to:
domesticated dogs, cats, small mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, and rodents. Not
included in this definition are wild_animals, domesticated livestock, poultry,
and those animals whose ownership is prohibited by the state_ofUtah, the United
States_government, or other portions of this code.
Human Occupancy (occupied by humans). Means a house, office building, assembly
hall, restaurant, retail store, manufacturing plant, employment site or other
fixed site that is used or developed for use by humans to sleep, work, or stay
for extended periods (periods where the human occupancy lasts 4 or more hours
per day, including facilities wherein the days of use are sporadic or
seasonal).
Hunting Preserve. Means an area especially managed or intended for the hunting
of wild game, as contrasted with a "Shooting Range".
Section 12.1.90. I.
Ice Cream Parlor. Means an establishment whose primary business is the sale of
ice cream and other types of food or beverages for customer consumption that
are not considered a complete meal, such as candy, soda, or coffee.
Ice Cream Vendor or Snow Shack. Means a seasonal business that serves ready-to-
eat single-servings of ice cream, snow cones, and similar frozen treats from a
self-contained unit that may be motorized or in a trailer on wheels, or in a
temporary structure affixed to the ground for the duration of the sales period.
Illegal Building/Structure. Means a building or structure, or portion thereof,
established without securing the necessary approvals, permits, or licenses, as
required by this Ordinance, the adopted Building Code, or their prior
enactments.
Illegal Lot. Means a lot created that has not received the necessary approvals,
permits, or licenses, as required by the Town’s Land Use Ordinances.
Illegal Use. Means a use established without receiving the necessary approvals,
permits, or licenses, as required by the Town’s Land Use Title/Ordinances.
Impact Analysis. Means a determination of the potential effect(s), including
but not limited to environmental, fiscal, social, matters, etc. upon the Town
or a section of the Town.
Impact Fee. Means a payment of money imposed under Utah Code 11-36a. Set-aside
fees collected from developers/builders causing infrastructure adjustments to
the community. Monies to be used as the development further impacts the
municipality.
Impervious Material or Surface. Means material that is impenetrable by water.
Impound Yard. Means a facility that is used for the storage of wrecked motor
vehicles, and vehicles impounded by law enforcement, kept for a period of time
not exceeding fourteen days. This definition does not allow for the sale of
parts.
Impulse Noise. Means a noise with a duration of two (2) seconds or less.
Example: a gunshot.
Industrial Outdoor Storage. Means the storage of merchandise, goods, inventory,
equipment, raw or unfinished materials, materials for Recycling, or other
materials, construction related vehicles, or similar items principally for
storage purposes or other items which are not intended for immediate sale,
located outside.
Infrastructure Provider. Means a person providing to another, for the purpose
of providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the
necessary system which uses the rights-of-way.
Inhabited. Means being present in or occupied in any manner or form (of a
person or group) lived in or occupied (a place or environment).
Inoperable or Abandoned Vehicles. Means motor vehicles, which by reason of
dismantling, disrepair, lack of licensing or other cause are either incapable
of being propelled under their own power or are prevented by law from being so
propelled.
Institutional Use. Means a public, nonprofit, or quasi-public use providing
service to the public, such as a public or private school, civic building,
library, hospital, or government owned or government-operated structure.
Intermittent Noise. Means a noise similar to a cyclically varying noise but
with an irregular interval and a continuous duration of six (6) minutes or less
for high level sound levels. Example: a motor vehicle passing a fixed location.
Invitation for Bids. Means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
ISO. (Insurance Service Office) Fire insurance charges for individual
structures are determined by classification and the ISO grade (1 being the
best, 10 being the worst).
Section 12.1.100. J- K.
Junk. Means, by way of example and not limitation of the term, used or salvaged
metals and their compounds or combination, used or salvaged rope, rubber, tires
or car parts, and used or discarded furniture and household appliances.
Junk Dealer. Means a person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
buying and selling junk. approved by the Town under its Zoning Ordinance. All
discarded metals, scrap metals, iron, glass, paper, wood, building materials,
plastics, fiberglass which may have value second hand but not in its present
condition, unused or discarded bicycles, tricycles or other recreational
vehicles or parts therefore, waste paper products, unused or discarded building
materials, machinery or machinery parts, lumber, accumulations of dirt, gravel,
ashes, or fire remains, or any inoperable or abandoned vehicles, parts, or any
other waste materials.
Junk Yard (Salvage Yard). Means a place where scrap, waste, discarded or
salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled,
handled, or stored; including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used
lumber yards, and places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and
structural steel materials and equipment; but not including places where
salvaged materials are kept incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on
the premises.
Kennel. Means any lot, building structure, enclosure or premises whereupon or
wherein four (4)) or more dogs and/or cats over six (6) months of age are kept
or maintained for any purpose, including boarding, breeding, buying, grooming,
letting for hire, training for fee, or selling.
Kennel, Breeding. Means a kennel lawfully located on a premises one acre or
more in size zoned for such use and where no more than ten dogs, registered
with a nationally recognized registration organization, over the age of six
months are owned, kept, or harbored for the purpose of breeding purebred or
pedigreed dogs; provided, however, this definition shall not apply to zoos or
to animal hospitals operated by veterinarians duly licensed under the law.
Kennel, Commercial . Means an establishment where four (4) or more dogs, older
than four (4) months, are kept for the purpose of boarding, breeding, raising
or training dogs for a fee or on a nonprofit basis.
Kennel, Private. Means the keeping, breeding, raising, showing, or training of
four or more dogs over four months of age for personal enjoyment of the owner
or occupants of the property, and for which commercial gain is not the primary
objective.
Section 12.1.110. L.
Land Use Authority. Means a person, board, commission, agency, or other body
designated by ordinance/code to act upon a land use application.
Land Use Element of the General Plan. Means the comprehensive, long range
strategic plan for the future of the Town and includes elements such as future
land uses, transportation, housing, storm drainage, culinary water, secondary
water, economic development, capital facilities plan, and intergovernmental
coordination, adopted as the Land Use Element of the General Plan by the Town
Council.
Land Use Ordinance. Means all regulations adopted by the Town of Fairfield
relating to the development and use of real property within the Town.
Landscape Park. Means a parcel of land which is developed using an
aesthetically arranged combination of trees, shrubs, ground cover, or other
natural vegetative material and/or incidental structural landscaping features
(i.e. fountains, reflecting pools, sculpture, play apparatus, benches, and
tables) and which is maintained as a place of ornamentation and recreation.
Landscape Park Recreational Facility. Means a play field, building or other
structure or area which is located in an approved landscape park as an
ancillary feat and which is shown on the park's approved plan. Such facilities
shall be recreational in nature, such as a slide, swing set, picnic pavilion,
swimming pool, gymnasium, golf course, tennis court or ball field. The
facilities shall not include sleeping or living facilities, nor uses that
produce noise, dust or light that will conflict with neighboring residences or
businesses.
Landscaping. Means the installation of any combination of the following items
to produce an aesthetic effect of to enhance and preserve natural features of
the site:plant materials, such as lawn, annual and perennial flowering plants,
native vegetation, vines, shrubs, and trees, but not including weeds or noxious
plants; ground cover, such as mulch, bark, and decorative rocks; ponds,
fountains, falls, and streams; and statutes, outdoor artwork, benches and
tables, earth berms, pots, and planters.
Landslide. Means a general term for the downslope movement of a mass of soil,
surficial deposits, or rock. Landslides may be rotational or translational.
Large Scale Development. Means a development or subdivision which has been
recommended for approval, approval with conditions, or denial by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, and approved by the Fairfield Town Council and which
consists of several buildings and structures planned and developed under
unified control as a single unit or project, including a planning unit
development, a planning subdivision, a mountain home development, a
recreational resort, and a mobile home park.
Laundromat. Means a facility where patrons, or individuals employed by the
laundromat, wash with soap and water in coin-operated machines (or other means
of payment), and/or dry with coin-operated machines (or other means of payment)
clothing or other fabrics. A laundromat does not include dry cleaning or dry
cleaners.
Library. Means a public facility containing printed information, electronic
information, and/or pictorial material for the public use and purpose of study,
reference, and recreation.
Licensing Official. Means a person in charge of issuing and revoking licenses.
Light Manufacturing. Means the manufacture, predominantly from previously
prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, and
incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding
basic industrial processing and custom manufacturing.
Livestock. Means domestic animals, such as meat and dairy cattle, horses, pigs
and poultry, raised for home use or for profit.
Livestock Auction Yard. Means a farm animal exchange company and includes
livestock pens, auction facilities and structures, and public and transport
parking for the sale of domestic livestock only.
Livestock Feed Yard. Means a feedlot or feed yard is a type of animal feeding
operation (AFO) which is used in intensive animal farming for finishing
livestock, notably beef cattle, but also swine, horses, sheep, turkeys,
chickens or ducks, prior to slaughter. Livestock feed yards are not allowed
within the boundaries of Fairfield Town in any zone.
Lot. Means a tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and
shown on a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the county
recorder. A parcel of land that is a legal unit.
Lot Coverage. Means the portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures including accessory uses.
Lot, Interior. Means any lot other than a corner lot.
Lot Layout. Means a plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing its actual
measurements, the size and location of any existing buildings, and buildings to
be erected; the location of the lot and abutting streets; and any further
requirements as described in this Code.
Lot Line. Means a boundary line of a parcel of land.
Lot Line. Means a line dividing one lot from another, or from a street or any
public place.
Lot Line Adjustment. Means a plat by which one or more lot(s) or tract lines
are moved or removed.
Lot Line, Front. Means any street right-of-way line of record or established by
use, which forms one or more boundaries of a lot.
Lot Line, Front Lot Line for Flag Lot. Means the lot line nearest to a
dedicated public street and at the end of the staff.
Lot Line, Primary. See Primary Lot Line.
Lot Line, Rear. Means a lot line that is opposite a front lot line. A
triangular lot has two side lot lines but no rear lot line. For other
irregularly shaped lots, the rear lot line is all lot lines that are most
nearly opposite the front lot line.
Lot line, Rear for Corner Lot. Means that interior lot line which has been
designated as the rear lot line as determined by the direction the house faces.
Lot Line, Rear for Interior Lot. Means the interior line lying opposite of the
front lot line.
Lot Line, Side. Means a lot line that is neither a front or rear lot line. On a
corner lot, the longer lot line which abuts a street is a side lot line.
Lot Line, Side for Corner Lot. Means any interior lot line for multi-frontage
lot; or, for other corner lots, that interior lot line which has been
designated as the side lot line by the lot owner, unless designated on the
plat.
Lot Line, Side for Interior Lot. Means those interior lines lying opposite each
other, running between the front and rear lot lines; or in the case of a multi-
frontage lot, those interior lines which run between the two front lot lines.
Lot Line, Side Street. Means a lot line that is both a side lot line and a
street lot line.
Lot Line, Street. Means a lot line, or segment of a lot line that abuts a
street. A street lot line does not include lot lines that abut an alley. On a
corner lot, there are two (or more) street lot lines. A street lot line can
include front lot lines and side lot lines.
Lot Width. Means frontages at the required setback. 
Lot Width, for Corner Lot. Means the width of the lot as measured along both
street frontages at the required setback; and in the case of an interior ,
means the horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along a line
lying at right angles to the centerline of the lot at the point of the required
setback..
Lot Width, for Interior Lot. Means the horizontal distance between the side lot
lines measured along a line lying at right angles to the centerline of the lot
at the point of the required setback.
Rev. ord. 06132023-2, passed 6-13-2023.
Section 12.1.120. M.
Maintain. Means to provide such maintenance, repair and, to the extent
necessary and appropriate, replacement, as may be needed to keep the subject
property in good condition and repair.
Main Building. Means the principal building or one of the principal buildings
upon a lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing the
principal use upon the lot; and includes all of the appendages constructed as
an architectural and integral part thereof.
Maintain. Mans to provide such maintenance, repair and, to the extent necessary
and appropriate, replacement, as may be needed to keep the subject property in
good condition and repair.
Major Collector. See “Collector street (major and minor)”.
Major Grading Permit. See “Grading Permit, Major”.
Manufactured Homes. Mobile homes built in the United States since June 1976,
legally referred to as manufactured homes, are required to meet FHA
certification requirements and come with attached metal certification tags and
are mortgageable through VA, FHA and Fannie Mae.  
Marina. Means a public or private dock or basin providing secure moorings for
boats and often offering supply, repair, and other facilities.
Metes and Bounds. Means a method of describing the boundaries of land by
directions and distances from a known point of reference.
Meeting Administrator. Means the Town Recorder or other employee of the Town
specifically assigned and designated to operate the telephonic or electronic
conference equipment at the anchor location to assure that all members of the
public body are continuously able to participate in the meeting and to advise
the party conducting the meeting of the initiation, recess, if appropriate, or
adjournment of the meeting.
Mill. Means a term used to express the property tax rate. (one mill is one-
tenth of a cent. Thus ten mills equal one cent or one percent).
Mining. Means all or any part of the process involved in the mining of minerals
by removing overburden and mining directly from the mineral deposits, open pit
mining or minerals naturally exposed, mining by auger method, dredging and
quarrying, underground mining, and surface work incidental to an underground
mine.
Mixed Use. Means a tract of land or building or structure developed for two (2)
or more different uses such as, but not limited to residential, office, retail,
and other possible compatible uses approved by the Town Council.
Mixed Use Development. Means a building or group of buildings designed to
encourage a diversity of compatible land uses, which include a mixture of two
(2) or more zoning uses that are approved by the Town Council.
Mobile Food Vendor. Means a business that serves food and / or beverages from a
self-contained unit either motorized or in a trailer on wheels, conducts all or
part of its operations on premises other than its own, and is readily movable,
without disassembling, for transport to another location. The term “mobile food
vendor” shall not include snow shacks or ice cream vendors.Mobile Home. A
mobile home built in the United States before June 15, 1976 is a movable or
portable dwelling built on a chassis, located on jacks or other temporary
foundations, connected to utilities, designed without permanent foundation, and
intended for year round living; Mobile homes permanently installed on owned
land are rarely mortgageable.
Model Home. Means a dwelling temporarily used as a sales office for a
residential development under construction, and not for general real estate
business.
Modular Homes. Means factory built dwelling units, transportable in one or more
sections, which are designed as year-round dwelling units and shall be placed
on a permanent foundation or basement. The manufactured dwelling units shall
bear a label certifying that such units were built in compliance with the
latest Manufactured Home Safety Construction and Safety Standards adopted by
the U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development for manufactured homes. The
Uniform Building Code shall apply to modular homes. Modular Homes means any
dwelling that is designed in more than one unit and is designed to be made
mobile on a temporary basis, on a perimeter wall foundation and constructed or
manufactured to Building Code Standards to provide a permanent residence for
one or more persons, but does not include a mobile home, recreational travel
trailer or recreational motor vehicle as defined herein.
Mortgage/Farm Preservation Lot Subdivision. Means a subdivision that allows one
(1) parcel to be split off of a larger piece of acreage for the purpose of
getting a mortgage
Motel. Means a building or group of detached or connected buildings designed or
used primarily for providing sleeping accommodations for automobile travelers
and having a parking space adjacent to a sleeping room, which includes
automobile courts, tourist courts with more than one building, and motor
lodges.
Motor Vehicle. Means any vehicle that is self-propelled by mechanical power,
including, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck trailers, semi-
trailers, campers, motorcycles, mini bikes, go-karts, snowmobiles, ATV’s/UTV’s
and racing vehicles.
Muffler. Means an apparatus or device used for reducing sound.
Municipal Roadway. Means a street or road which has been dedicated to and
accepted by the municipality including utility easements.
Municipality. Means, unless otherwise indicated, Fairfield Town, Utah.
Section 12.1.130. N.
Natural Hazard. Means a naturally occurring geologic condition or phenomenon
that may present a potential danger to life and property. Natural hazards which
are treated in the NHO Zone of this ordinance are limited to surface fault
rupture, rock fall, landslides, and debris flows. Natural hazards include the
above-listed conditions even though they are aggravated or induced by man.
Neighborhood Grocery Store. Means a store that is 25,000 square feet or less,
where most of the floor area is devoted to the sale of food products for home
preparation and consumption; that typically also offers other home care and
personal care products; and that is substantially larger and carries a broader
range of merchandise than convenience stores.
New Construction, for the Purpose of Determining Insurance Rates. Means
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM [Oct. 15, 1982] or after December 31, 1974,
whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of a flood plain management regulation adopted by the community
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
Noise. Means any sound that is unwanted and causes or tends to cause an adverse
psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
Noise Disturbance. Means any sound that annoys or disturbs a reasonable person
(s) with normal sensitivities or that injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, hearing, peace or safety of another person(s).
Noise, Plainly Audible. Means any noise for which the information content of
that noise is unambiguously transferred to the listener, including, but not
limited to, the understanding of spoken speech, comprehension of whether a
voice is raised or normal, or comprehension of musical rhythms.
Noise Source. Means any instrument or device for amplifying sound, or anything
which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound. The term shall include multiple
sources of sound.
Non Commercial Vehicle. Means the following vehicles are not considered a
"commercial vehicle" for purposes of this Code; Equipment owned and operated by
the United States department of defense when driven by any active duty military
personnel and members of the reserves and national guard on active duty,
including personnel on full time national guard duty, personnel on part time
training, and national guard military technicians and civilians who are
required to wear military uniforms and are subject to the code of military
justice; firefighting and emergency vehicles, operated by emergency personnel,
not including commercial tow trucks; City, Town or County commercial vehicles
being used in the servicing of adjacent properties or streets; and recreational
vehicles that are driven solely as family or personal conveyances for
noncommercial
Nonconforming Building Lot. Means a parcel of land of record that was lawfully
subdivided and in compliance with all laws at the time of division and no
longer meets the minimum requirements for a building lot in the zone where it
is located because of a subsequent amendment to the applicable land use
ordinance.
Nonconforming Lot of Record. Means a lot which does not conform to the area
and/or width requirements of this ordinance for a zoning lot, but which was
shown continuously on the records of the County Clerk or Recorder as an
independent parcel since before the effective date of this ordinance.
Nonconforming Use. Means a use of land that legally existed before its current
land use designation; has been maintained continuously since the time the land
use ordinance regulation governing the land change; and, because of one or more
subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not conform to the regulations that
now govern the use of the land. To qualify as "legally existing," the use shall
have been properly issued a permit prior to the enactment of this ordinance or,
alternatively, the use shall have been legally commenced prior to the first
enactment of zoning in Utah County on November 16, 1942, and thus used
continuously thereafter.
Nonconforming, When Used in the Context of a Building or Structure. Means a
building or structure meeting the definition contained in Utah Code § 10-9a-103
(44) for a Non Complying Structure.
Non Depository Institution. Means a financial business, other than a depository
institution such as a bank, credit union, mortgage lender, or savings and loan
association, that is registered by the State of Utah pursuant to the Check
Cashing Registration Act or the Title Lending Registration Act, which includes
the following defined businesses: a check cashing business; a payday loan
business; a title loan business; a deferred deposit lender.
Nuisance. Means doing any act or omitting to perform any duty, which act or
omission either annoys, injures, endangers or is unsightly, which includes, but
is not limited to, keeping or depositing on or scattering over the premises any
of the following: lumber, junk, trash or debris, abandoned, discarded or unused
objects or equipment such as automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
freezers, cans, containers or other discarded items not currently in use and
any other object or animal that threatens the comfort, repose, health and
safety of the public or offends public decency. “Nuisance” also has the
meanings as defined in Utah Code Annotated sections 78B-6-1101, 76-10-803, and
76-10-801.
Nursery. Means buildings, land, and other structures and facilities for the
cultivation of plants for subsequent replanting or harvesting, including
hydroponics operations.
Nursing Home. Means a building containing group quarters wherein room, board,
care, and supervision are provided to two or more persons who, because of
illness, age, or physical deformity, cannot properly care for themselves. The
building may also include a dwelling unit to house the supervisory personnel.
To qualify, the home must be approved for such use by the Utah State Division
of Health.
Section 12.1.140. O.
Oath. Means an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
submitted for an oath and in such cases the word “swear” and “sworn” shall be
equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed”.
Occupant. Means, as applied to a building or land, any person who occupies a
property.
Occupied. Means being used by someone; to dwell or reside in; Rev. ord.
03142023-3, passed 03-14-2023.
Off Site. Means land or areas which are not included in the land or area
defined as on-site.
Off Street Parking. Means the space within a building, lot, or parking lot, but
not within any portion of any public street right-of-way, for the temporary
parking of one vehicle.
any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Offense. Means any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provision of this code.
Office, High Intensity. Means an office in which business uses are conducted
which typically require more than 6 employees per 1000 sq. ft., and in which no
goods or merchandise are stored, displayed, or sold. An example would include
call-centers.
Office, Medical and Health Care. Means offices or clinics which provide
services for the treatment and care of illness or injury, including only
medical, dental, and chiropractic offices; or offices devoted to the healing
arts so long as licensed and accredited, including massage therapists and
licensed physical therapists; and may include a pharmacy or drugstore intended
to serve patients of medical or dental professionals.
Office, Office Structure. Means a room, suite of rooms, or building used for
conducting the affairs of a business, profession, service industry, or
government.
Office, Professional. Means a place intended for the conduct of administration
or services by a business enterprise and in which no goods or merchandise are
stored, displayed or sold.
Officers, Departments, Commissions, Boards, Councils and Employees. Means, when
referred to in this code, officers, departments, commissions, boards, councils
and employees of Fairfield Town Utah, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
Open Space. Means an open, landscaped, and improved area that is unoccupied and
unobstructed by residential or commercial buildings, setbacks between
buildings, parking areas, and other hard surfaces that have no recreational
value; provides park or landscaped areas that meet the minimum recreational
needs of the residents of the subdivision; includes parks, recreational areas,
gateways, trails, buffer areas, berms, view corridors, entry features, or other
amenities that facilitate the creation of more attractive neighborhoods; may
include hard surfaced features such as swimming pools, plazas with recreational
value, sports courts, fountains, and other similar features with recreational
value, as well as sensitive lands with recreational value, subject to the
limitations stated in the definition of sensitive lands, within a development
that have been designated as such at the discretion of the Planning Commission
and Town Council; and may not include surplus open space located on another lot
unless such surplus open space was previously approved as part of an overall
site plan, development agreement, or plat approval.
Open Video Service. Means any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights-of-way by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to Section 651, et seq. of the Act,
regardless of the system used.
Open Video System. Means the system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave
guides, optic fiber, microwave, laser beams, and any associated converters,
equipment, or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing,
receiving, amplifying or distributing open video services to or from
subscribers or locations within the Town.
Operator. Means any person who provides service over a telecommunications
system and directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest
in such system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation
of such a system.
Overlay Zone. Means a zone which is created and intended to restrict and
regulate property and property usage in addition to other zoning requirements.
Outdoor Seasonal Sales. Means a type of temporary use that includes outdoor
retail operations such as Christmas tree lots, pumpkin patches, fireworks
stands, or other similar seasonal retail uses but not including mobile food
vendors, ice cream vendors, or snow shacks.
Outdoor Vending Machines. Means any self-contained or connected appliance,
machine, or storage container located outside or in a non-enclosed space that
dispenses or provides storage of a product or service; and does not include
newspaper racks, phones, and automatic teller machines.
Owner. Means, when applied to a building or land, any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of any part of such
building or land.
Section 12.1.150. P.
Parcel. Means the entire legal description of the property.
Parcel of Land. Means a contiguous quantity of land in the possession of, or
owned by, or recorded as the property of, the same owner.
Parking Lot. Means an open area, other than a street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether
free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
Parking, Off-Street. See “Off-Street Parking”.
Parking Space. Means a space not less than fifteen (15) feet in length nor less
than seven and one-half (7.5) feet in width for compact auto spaces and not
less than eighteen (18) feet in length, nor less than eight and one-half (8.5)
feet in width for full size auto spaces. Compact auto spaces may comprise no
more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total parking provided.
Parking Strip. Means the strip of land located within the public right of way
between the edge of a lot or parcel and the curb and gutter, or the edge of the
sidewalk and the curb and gutter, whichever measurement is farther from the
curb.
Pasture. Means an enclosure for animals in which no feed is provided except
that which the animals obtain by grazing.
Parks, Playgrounds or Community Recreation. Means any of the following
recreational land uses, which are easily accessible to residents depending on
the local needs:
   1.   Areas of natural quality set aside for outdoor recreation such as
viewing, sitting, and picnicking
   2.   Arenas
   3.   Athletic fields
   4.   Community centers
   5.   Golf courses
   6.   Parks
   7.   Playgrounds
   8.   Recreation center buildings
   9.   Sports facilities
   10.   Swimming pools
   11.   Tennis courts
   12.   Walking and jogging tracks and
   13.   Any similar public use areas or buildings that provide recreational
opportunities.
Pawn Shop. Means an establishment primarily engaged in the loaning of money on
the security of property pledged in the keeping of the pawnbroker, and the sale
of such property.
Pending Ordinance. Means a Town Code, Zoning Map, or General Plan amendment
that has been reviewed by the Planning Commission in an open and public meeting
and a recommendation has been forwarded to the Town Council; or been first
reviewed by the Town Council and has been included or attached to a resolution
indicating the Council’s intent to initiate proceedings to amend. A pending
ordinance or change to the code is binding on any land use application or
building permit application filed with the Town prior to final approval of the
pending ordinance by the Town Council. If the town's actions meet this
definition, the town’s actions shall satisfy the requirements of Utah Code § 0-
9a-509 as initiating a formal proceeding to amend this Title.
Performance Bond. Means a document meeting the requirements of the code and
guaranteeing completion of any improvements required by the town and
accompanied by a Bond Agreement; in an amount as specified in the code; on
forms approved by the Town; and having the form of an escrow bond with funds on
deposit in a reputable, federally-insured financial institution, a cash bond
deposited with the Town, or a letter of credit from a reputable, federally-
insured financial institution.
Person. Means an individual, public or private corporation, government,
partnership, organization,trust, unincorporated association, or any other legal
entity.. See Ut. St.. Code. 76-1-601(11, 10-9a-103(48).
Personal Service Establishment. Means an establishment which offers specialized
goods and services to consumers including barbershops, beauty shops, massage
facilities, garment repair, pressing, tailoring, shoe repair, and other similar
establishments.
Personal Services. Means establishments primarily involved in providing
personal grooming and related services; and includes, but is not limited to,
barbershops, beauty parlors, and tailors, but does not include laundries or dry
cleaners.
Personal Wireless Services Facilities. Means the same as definition as provided
Section 704 of the Act, which includes what is commonly known as cellular and
PCS services that do not install any system or portion of a system in the
rights-of-way.
Phantom Roads as referred to by Fairfield Town. Means all roads that were on
the original Fairfield plat map and were held in trust by the United States
government until Fairfield became a town. Fairfield maintains rights of
ownership of such roads.
Place of Business. Means a location maintained or operated by a person within
the Town limits from which a business activity is conducted or transacted.
Planned Performance Development. Means a development that is encouraged to use
imaginative, efficient utilization of land as well as consolidation of open
spaces and clustering of the dwelling units. Density in the Planned Performance
Development is determined by additional amenities and open space.
Planning Commission. Means the Town of Fairfield Planning Commission.
Planning Director. Means the employee, contractor, individual, or firm
responsible for all municipal planning activities including long-range land use
planning, ordinance preparation, administration and enforcement of the land
development code, land use interpretation, development review, coordination
with the Town Planning Commission, and any other responsibilities required by
the Town relating to planning and development. Currently being taken care of by
the Planning and Zoning Commissioner.
Plant and Tree Nursery. Means a facility used for the growing and the wholesale
or retail sale of plants, trees, shrubs, flowers, ground covers, etc. and may
also include sales of related products, including fertilizers, mulch, landscape
decoration, etc.
Plat. Means a map or other geographical representation of lands being laid out
and prepared in accordance with LUDMA.
Plat, Final. Means a drawing prepared in accordance with the Land Use
Ordinances showing the final design of a land division and complying with all
standards and requirements of best surveying practice and in a form required by
the Utah County Recorder’s Office for recordation.
Postal Center. Means a facility that contains service windows for mailing
packages and letters, post office boxes, offices, vehicle storage areas, and
sorting and distribution facilities for mail.
Preliminary Plat. Means the initial formal plat of a proposed land division or
subdivision containing the information required by this Code.
Premises. Means a lot, together with any buildings and structures located
thereon.
Premises Occupation. Means a domestic manufacturing, artistry, or service
business (but not the sale of goods produced off-site) which is carried on in
an accessory building on the same lot as a residence by persons residing on the
premises.
Preschool. Means a preschool, also known as nursery school, pre-primary school,
or play school, is an educational establishment or learning space offering
early childhood education to children for a fee before they begin compulsory
education at primary school.
Primary Building. Means the principal building located on a lot, parcel, or
tract of land and designed or used to accommodate the primary use.
Primary Lot. Means the lot on which the residence will be built.
Primary Use. Means the principal purpose for which a lot, parcel, tract, or
building is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained.
Printing, Lithography and Publishing Establishment. Means any commercial
printing operation involving a process that is considered printing, imprinting,
reproducing, or duplicating images and using printing methods including offset
printing, lithography, web offset, flexography, and screen process printing.
Private Improvements. Means any open space, park space, club house, pool, tot
lot, gazebo, picnic area, trails, or any other privately owned and maintained
improvement provided in connection with subdivision, Conditional Uses, or site
plan approval.
Private Road. See “Road, Private.”
Procurement. Means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing with an option to
purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services or construction.
Produce Stand. Means a temporary roadside building or structure used for the
seasonal retail sales of unprocessed fresh fruits, vegetables, flowers, herbs,
plants, and other unprocessed agricultural food products. May also include
cottage products produced from these agricultural food products such as honey,
jam, and applesauce.
Prohibition of Unlawful Noise. Means it is unlawful for any person to produce,
continue, or cause to be produced or continued, any noise disturbance (as
defined in this chapter) within the limits of the Town.
Project Plan. Means a map prepared by a licensed Engineer, Surveyor, Landscape
Architect, or Architect that illustrates the basic components of a proposed
development; and submitted with Conditional Use applications in cases where the
submittal of a Site Plan is not required.
Property. Means any lot, parcel, or tract of land, including improvements
thereon, and recorded as real property in the Office of the Utah County
Recorder.
Property Boundary. Means an imaginary line extending perpendicular to the
ground surface, and its above-ground vertical extension, that identifies the
line between the real property owned by one person or entity and that adjoining
property owned by another.
Property Line. Means the boundary line of a lot, parcel, or tract.
Property Owner. Means the owner in fee simple of real property as shown in the
records of the Utah County Recorder’s Office and includes the plural as well as
the singular, and may mean either a natural person, firm, association,
partnership, trust, private corporation, limited liability company, public or
quasi-public corporation, other entities authorized by the State of Utah, or
any combination of the foregoing.
Protected Open Space. Means open space that is either placed in a conservation
easement or listed as unbuildable on the recorded plat.
Provider. Means an operator, infrastructure provider, resaler, or system
lessee.
PSC. Means the Public Service Commission, or any successor thereto.
Public. Means that which is under the ownership or control of the United States
Government, Utah State or any subdivision thereof, Utah County, or the Town of
Fairfield (or any departments or agencies thereof).
Public Body. Means the Town Council, Planning Commission, Cemetery Board or any
other public board, commission or committee that the Town Council may create.
Public Building or Facilities (Town owned). Means uses which may be housed in
separate buildings or which may occupy a space within a building that are
operated by the Town of Fairfield to serve public needs; and public uses such
as police, jail, fire service, ambulance, judicial court, government offices,
library, cultural facility, recreation center, senior center, public utility
stations, and maintenance facilities.
Public Hearing. Means a hearing at which citizens, land owners and other
interested parties are provided a reasonable opportunity to express their
position on specific issues, both pro and con, as mandated by either statute or
by order of proper authority after due notice.
Public Improvement. Means any street dedications, installations of curb,
gutter, sidewalk, road base and asphalt, water, sewer, and storm drainage
facilities, or other utility or service required to provide services to a lot,
parcel, building, or structure.
Public Meeting. Means a meeting that is required to be open to the public under
State Code Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
Public Park. Means a landscape park which is owned or leased by a federal or
state agency, a town or town government, or county government and which is
operated under the aegis of such agency or government for public use.
Public/Private Utility Building or Facility. Means a building or structure used
or intended to be used by any public or private utility, including any:
   1.   Gas treatment plant reservoir, tank, or other storage facility;
   2.   Water treatment plant, well, reservoir, tank, or other storage
facility;
   3.   Electric generating plant, distribution, or transmission substation;
   4.   Telephone switching or other communications plant, earth station, or
other receiving or transmission facility;
   5.   Storage yard for public or private utility equipment or vehicles; and
any parking lot for parking vehicles or automobiles to serve a public or
private utility.
Public Record. Means any record retained by a government body as further
defined by statute and open to inspection.
Public Right-of-Way. Means a road, street, alley, lane, court, place, viaduct,
tunnel, culvert, or bridge laid out or erected as such by the public, or
dedicated or abandoned to the public, or made such in any action by the
subdivision of real property, and includes the entire area within the right-of-
way.
Public Street. See Street, Public.
Public Thoroughfare. Means any Town street; county, state or interstate road;
or other road upon which the public has a right to travel.
Public Use. Means a use operated exclusively by a public body or quasi-public
body, such use having the purpose of serving the public health, safety, or
general welfare, and including streets, parks, recreational facilities,
administrative and service facilities.
Public Works Representative. Means the individual over the Roads Department.
Purchase Description. Means the words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services or construction to be purchased, and includes specifications
attached to or made a part of the solicitation.
Purchasing Agent. Means the person duly authorized by the Town Council to enter
into and administer contracts and make written determinations with respect
thereto.
Section 12.1.160. Q- R.
Reception Center. Means an establishment with facilities that are rented for
either private or public gatherings which may also provide catering or
entertainment services.
Recreation Center. Means an establishment providing a variety of commercial
recreation activities that are enclosed within a structure along with outdoor
activities including one or more of the following: bowling, roller or ice
skating, arcade games, billiards, miniature golf, amusement rides, slides and
swimming pools, and related amusements; and may include ancillary uses, such as
the preparation and serving of food or the sale of equipment related to the
enclosed uses.
Recreation Rentals. Means an establishment that specializes in the rental of
outdoor recreation equipment or similar items and accessories.
Recreational Camps and Resorts. Means cabin sites and commercial outdoor
recreation establishments.
Recreational Resort. Means a type of large scale development providing
accommodations for owners and guests, which include some of the following
activities (but not limited to): skiing, hunting, fishing, golfing, horseback
riding, swimming, sight-seeing, dining, and lodging.
Recreational Vehicle" or "RV". Means a vehicular-type unit primarily designed
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use
that either has its own motive power or is mounted on, or towed by, another
vehicle. The basic types of RV entities are: camping trailer, fifth wheel
trailer, motor home, park trailer, travel trailer, truck camper, and tiny house
trailer which are individually defined as follows:
Recreational Vehicle Court/Park. Means an area or tract of land used to
accommodate two or more recreational vehicles or camper units for a short
period of time (less than 45 days).
Recreational Vehicle Sales. Means an establishment that sells motor homes, all-
terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, watercraft, and other similar vehicles and
accessories.
Recycling Facility. Means a location whose primary use is where waste or scrap
materials are stored, bought, sold, accumulated, exchanged, packaged,
disassembled, or handled, including scrap metals, paper, rags, tires, bottles,
and other such materials.
Request for Proposals. Means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting proposals.
Research and Development. Means an establishment which conducts research,
development, or controlled production of high technology electronic,
industrial, or scientific products or commodities for sale; or laboratories
conducting educational or medical research or testing. Research and development
uses, including medical or electronic assembly and manufacturing; any use
engaged in research and development, testing, assembly, repair, and
manufacturing in the following industries: biotechnology, pharmaceuticals,
medical instrumentation or supplies, communications and information technology,
electronics and instrumentation, and computer hardware and software; and
includes as part of this use any offices, warehousing, wholesaling, and
distribution of the finished products produced at the site
Reseller. Means any person that provides local exchange service over a system
for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease
the underlying system used for the transmission.
Resident. Means any member of a household whose primary place of residence
within the Town of Fairfield meets the Utah State standard defining a resident.
Excepting therefrom any health impaired individuals who resided in the Town of
Fairfield immediately prior to moving into a care facility due to varying
factors and must live in a care facility, including family members homes,
outside the Town of Fairfield.
Residential Day Care Center. Means a building containing a dwelling unit and
associated facilities wherein ordinary board, care and supervision are provided
during customary daytime periods by the resident family to not more than six
(6) people who are not related to such family. To qualify, the center must be
approved for such use by the State Department of Social Services.
Residential Density. Means the average number of dwellings on one acre of land
in a given area. Net residential density is determined by dividing the total
number of dwellings in a defined area by the total acreage of all parcels of
land within the area that are used exclusively for residential and accessory
purposes. Gross residential density is obtained by dividing all land in a
defined area used for residences, streets, sidewalks, park strips, landscaped
islands, local schools, local parks, and local shopping facilities, into the
total number of dwellings in said area.
Residential Facility for Elderly Persons. Means housing that provides a program
of independent or assisted services to deal with the activities and
instrumental activities of daily living for the elderly.
Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability. Means a residence that
meets the definition of Utah Code Section 10-9a-103; b. treats persons with a
“disability” as defined in Utah Code Section 10-9a-103;
Restaurant, Casual. Means an establishment where foods or beverages are
prepared for consumption that occurs in the building, on the premises, within a
motor vehicle parked on the premises, or off-premises; and whose operation
includes one or more of the following characteristics:
   food or beverages are served to the occupants of a motor vehicle (e.g.,
drive-through window or drive-in); and food and beverages are usually served
over a general service counter whether or not there is a seating area within
the restaurant.
Restaurant, Deli. Means a shop, store, or business no larger than 2,000 square
feet selling primarily meats, cheeses, and sandwiches with limited onsite
seating and more than 50% of business typically consisting of take-out.
Restaurant, Sit Down. Means an establishment that provides, as a principal use,
foods and beverages prepared for consumption within or without the
establishment with no drive-up or drive-through window or drive-in and whose
operation includes the following characteristics: customers are customarily
served their food or beverage by a restaurant employee at the same table or
counter at which said items are consumed; and a restaurant employee customarily
clears the table of trash and food; and take-out service may be provided so
long as it is not the principal business of the establishment and no drive-up
or drive-through window, or drive-in, is utilized.
Restrictive Covenant. Means a limitation on the use of land usually set forth
in the deed. (Restrictive covenant usually runs with the land and is binding
upon subsequent owners of the property).
Retail. Means the sale of commodities or goods in small quantities to ultimate
consumers; A place of business devoted in whole or in part to the sale, rental
or servicing of goods or commodities which are normally delivered or provided
on the premises to a consumer.
Retail, Big Box. Means a singular retail or wholesale use, which occupies no
less than 50,000 square feet of gross floor area, that may require high parking
to building area ratios; have a regional sales market; and include regional
retail or wholesale sales; and membership warehouse clubs that emphasize bulk
sales, discount stores, and department stores
Retail, Specialty. Means retail operations that specialize in one type or line
of merchandise; and may include apparel stores, jewelry stores, bookstores,
shoe stores, stationary stores, antique stores, and similar establishments.
Retail, Tobacco Specialty Store. Means a commercial establishment in which the
sale of tobacco products accounts for more than 35% of the total annual gross
receipts for the establishment; food and beverage products, excluding gasoline
sales, is less than 45% of the total annual gross receipts for the
establishment; and the establishment is not licensed as a pharmacy under Utah
Code Title 58, Chapter 17b, Pharmacy Practice Act.
Retail, Variety Store. Means a store retailing a diversified offering of
several categories of goods.
Riding Arena, Commercial. Means commercial roping and riding arenas
(unlighted), as well as commercial roping and riding arenas (lighted) which may
or may not be totally enclosed within a structure.
Riding Arena, Private. Means an animal enclosure included within a barn or in
an open corral, for the purpose of carrying out activities related to the
training of horses, riding schools, and other equestrian skills, but not
including any use for commercial entertainment.
Rights-of-way. Means the surface of and the space above and below any public
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or
hereafter existing as such within the Town.
Road, Private. Means a thoroughfare, held in private ownership and controlled
by one or more persons, firms or corporations, and used or held for use
primarily as a means of access to adjoining properties.Roadside Stand. Means a
temporary stand or structure for retail sales.
Section 12.1.170. S.
Salvage Yard. “See “Junk Yard”.
Sanitary Landfill. See “Solid Waste Disposal Site”.
School, Charter. Means a school licensed in accordance with Utah Code Title
53A, Chapter 1a, Part 5, The Utah Charter Schools Act. A charter school is
considered to be a public school in this Title for the sole purpose of
determining whether it is a permitted or conditional use. A charter school
shall meet all applicable federal, state, and local laws, including this Title
and all Town land use ordinances. This definition shall not be interpreted to
limit, restrict, or alter in any way the requirements of charter schools under
Utah Code § 10-9a-305 to follow this Title and all Town land use ordinances.
School, Private or Quasi - Public. Means a school that is operated by a private
or quasi-public organization or individual, excluding charter schools and
public schools, which includes an academic curriculum recognized as satisfying
the requirements of elementary, secondary, or higher education in the State of
Utah and is accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the State of
Utah.
School, Public. Means an educational facility operated by a public school
district as defined in the Utah State Code.
School, Trade or Vocational. Means a post high school educational or vocational
training facility.
Sealed Container. Means a covered, closable container which is rodent-proof,
fly-proof and watertight such as garbage cans with properly fitting tops or
plastic garbage bags which have been closed or twisted shut.
Seasonal Home Development. Means a type of development which is approved for
the purpose of providing sites for vacation dwellings for temporary use by
families which have permanent residences elsewhere and which occupy the
dwelling intermittently, primarily during weekends or vacation periods; the
development was not intended to get the normal governmental services (school
bus service, mail service, snow removal, etc.) that are customary for permanent
residences.
Secondary Water System. Means a system which is designed and intended to
provide, transport, or store water used for watering of crops, lawns,
shrubbery, flowers, and other non-culinary uses.
Sensitive Lands. Means land and natural features including canyons and slopes
in excess of 30%, ridge lines, natural drainage channels, streams or other
natural water features, wetlands, flood plains, landslide prone areas,
detention or retention areas, debris basins, and geologically sensitive areas.
Septic Tank. Means a watertight underground cistern and the attached
underground drain pipes used to dispose of sewage into the soil.
Septic Tank Drain Field. Means the plot of land in which drain lines of a
septic tank are located.
Setback. Means the shortest horizontal distance permitted in each zone, as set
forth in the Town’s zones, between the identified boundary lines of a lot and a
building, structure, or part thereof.
Sexually Oriented Business. Means a business which depicts, portrays, or
describes “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas,” or
instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designated or used in
connection with specified sexual activities, including but not limited to adult
arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret,
adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, or nude or seminude
model studio.
Shooting Range, Indoor or Outdoor. Means an area or structure specially
designed for the safe discharge and use of rifles, shotguns, pistols,
silhouettes, skeet, trap, black powder, or any similar firearm for the purpose
of sport-shooting or military/law enforcement training. May also include
archery, and may or may not be open to the general public.
Sidewalk. Means a passageway for pedestrians, excluding motor vehicles.
Sign. Means any medium, including its structure, symbols, and other component
parts, which is used or intended to be used to attract attention to the subject
thereon.
Sign, Accessory. Means a sign which is located on the premises and which
directs attention to a business or profession which is conducted on the
premises.
Signal. Means any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or
laser or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or
digital format.
Single Source Provider. Means purchases from one selected supplier, even though
there are other suppliers that provide similar products. If your company
decides to buy only Dell computers then that is a single source provider.
Site Plan. Means a schematic, scaled drawing of a lot, parcel, or tract which
indicates, as may be required by this Ordinance, including but not limited to
the placement and location of buildings, setbacks, yards, property lines,
adjacent parcels, utilities, topography, waterways, irrigation, drainage,
landscaping, parking areas, driveways, trash containers, streets, sidewalks,
curbs, gutters, signs, lighting, fences and other features of existing or
proposed use, activity, building or structure.
Slaughter House. Means an animal processing plant where cattle or other
livestock are killed preparatory to butchering and consumption.
Sleeping Apartment. Means a room or specific space for sleeping and living
quarters which may not contain cooking facilities. In a suite of interconnected
bedrooms (motel rooms) which have no cooking facilities, each three bedrooms
(motel rooms) shall be considered a "sleeping apartment". A dormitory, lodge,
barrack, or other quarters that provide bedrooms (each bedroom may not exceed
five hundred (500) square feet in total floor area that connect by hallway or
central court shall be considered one "sleeping apartment" for each ten (10)
bedrooms or for each twenty (20) persons, whichever is less.
Slope. Means the average grade of the surface of land expressed in either
percentage or in degrees.
Soil Breakthrough. Means soil migrating through the fabric and cap in a manner
that exposes the public and shall be deemed in violation of this Ordinance.
Soil Ordinance Boundary. Means all land that lies within the boundaries of
Fairfield Town.
Solar Panel. Means a panel designed to absorb the sun’s rays as a source of
energy for generating electricity or heat.
Solid Waste Disposal Site (MSW Landfill). Means a garbage dump, recycling
center, or landfill operation utilizing solid wastes which meets all Health
Department standards for approval.
Sound. Means an audible temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure, or other
physical quantity with interval forces that cause compression or rarefaction of
the medium, and that propagates a finite speed to distant points.
Sound Pressure Level. Means the sound level measured with a sound level meter
using the A weighting network. The standard notation or abbreviation is “dBA”.
Stable. Means a building in which horses are sheltered, which may be accessory
to a residential or other use or a freestanding principal use.
Stationary Noise Source. Means any device, fixed or moveable, that is capable
of creating a noise level at the property upon which it is regularly
located.loc.
Stockyards. Means an enclosure with pens, sheds, etc. where cattle, hogs,
sheep, or horses are kept temporarily before slaughtering or shipment:
Storage, Outdoor. Means a location where a business keeps equipment, supplies,
and other business related materials in an outdoor area fully enclosed by a
minimum six (6) foot opaque wall or fence. Outdoor storage does not include
wrecking yards, dumps, and other debris storage.
Storage, Self-Storage or Mini-Storage Units. Means a building or group of
buildings divided into separate compartments used to meet the temporary storage
needs of small businesses, apartment dwellers, and other residential uses; and
may include refrigerated or climate-controlled facilities.
Storage, Vehicle. Means a location where recreational vehicles, cars, trucks,
and other vehicles are stored in an enclosed structure, or in an outdoor area
fully enclosed by a minimum six (6) foot opaque wall or fence. Vehicle Storage
does not include sales.
Story. Means that portion of a building included between the surface of a floor
and the ceiling next above it, but not to include underfloor crawl space or
attic space without floor decking or without the required height.
Street. Means all roads, alleys, lanes, highways, courts, places, squares,
trails, bridges and sidewalks laid out or erected as such by the public,
abandoned or dedicated to the public, or made public by any means whatsoever;
   Collector - A street which collects traffic from local streets and connects
with a minor and major arterial.
   Cul-de-sac - A street with a single common ingress and egress and with a
turn-around at the end; not a through street.
   Dead End - A street with a single common ingress and egress.
   Major Arterial - A street with access control, channeled intersections,
restricted parking and which collects and distributes traffic.
   Minor Arterial - A street with signals at important intersections and stop
signs on the side streets which collects and distributes traffic to and from
collector streets.
   Highway -  A street that is the entire width between the boundary lines of
every public way that is maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   Local - A street which provides for direct access to abutting land and for
local traffic movement.
   Public - A tract of land which is an existing state, county, or municipal
roadway, or is shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of the
county recorder, or has been accepted by the town council as part of a
development project, and is for public use, to provide a thoroughfare for
public use that is primarily for vehicular travel, an access to abutting
properties, the installation of public utility service lines or pipes; and
drainage facilities and other public works and appurtenances for the
convenience and welfare of the public.
Structure.  Means anything constructed or erected on or added to existing land
according to a plan or organization. Rev. ord. 03142023-3, passed 03-14-2023.
Subdivider. Means a person who, having interest in land, causes it, directly or
indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; directly or indirectly sells,
leases, develops, or advertises for sale, lease or development, any interest,
lot, parcel, site, dwelling, unit, or plat in a subdivision; or engages
directly or through an agent in the business of selling, leasing, developing,
or offering for sale the lease or development of a subdivision.
Subdivision. A subdivision is any land that is divided, re-subdivided or
proposed to be divided into two (2) or more lots or other division of land for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions. Subdivision includes the division or development of land
whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat,
or other recorded instrument, regardless of whether the division includes all
or a portion of parcel or lot; and except as provided in subsection (65)(c) of
Uah State Code, Section 10-9a-103, divisions of land for residential and
nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial,
agricultural, and industrial purposes.
Subdivision, Improved.   Means subdivided lots that meet all zoning and
building permit requirements.
Subdivision, Unimproved. Means an undeveloped lot that has no or little
improvements.
Substantial Damage. Means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
Substantial Improvement. Means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions or,
   any alterations of a "historic structure", provided that the structure
continues to be designated as a "historic structure" following the improvement.
Swimming Pool. Means constructed pool, any part of which is above or below
grade; and prefabricated pool, any part of which is below grade, or a
prefabricated pool that is completely above grade and has a capacity of five
thousand (5,000) gallons) or more, used for swimming or bathing.
Swimming Pool, Community. Means a pool that is open to a limited public through
membership, such as an HOA or club.
Swimming Pool, Private. Means a pool on an individual residential lot intended
for primary use by the occupants of that lot.
Swimming Pool, Public. Means a pool that is open to the general public, with or
without a fee.
System Lessee. Means any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
Section 12.1.180. T.
Tattoo Parlor. Means a business establishment that operates tattoo equipment to
inject ink or otherwise modify human skin for the purposes of decoration, which
may include body piercing; however, establishments that engage in ear piercing
and no other activities in this definition shall not be considered tattoo
parlors.
Telecommunications. Means the transmission, between or among points specified
by the user, of information of the user’s choosing (e.g., data, video, and
voice), without change in the form or content of the information sent and
received.
Telecommunications Service or Services. Means any telecommunications or
communications services provided by a provider within the Town that the
provider is authorized to provide under federal, state and local law, and any
equipment and/or facilities required for and integrated with the services
provided within the Town, except that these terms do not include “cable
service” as defined in the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended
by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 USC
521, et seq.), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996. “Telecommunications
services” or “services” also includes an open video service.
Telecommunications System or Systems. Means all conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment,
wire and appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider, located in the
rights-of-way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully
digital or analog voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced
telecommunications services. “Telecommunications system” or “system” also
includes an open video system.
Temporary Sales Trailers. Means trailers for use by home builders or developers
for the purpose of sales within subdivision projects, which are subject to the
regulations in Title 10 of this Code.
Temporary Use. Means a use that is associated with a holiday or special event
for a limited duration of time, including but not limited to outdoor seasonal
sales.
Theater. Means a building used primarily for the presentation of movies
projected upon a screen or the presentation of live stage productions or
performances, which may include ancillary uses such as arcade games and
concession areas.
Tobacco Product. Means any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette as defined
under Utah Code Section 76-10-101; a tobacco product as defined under Utah Code
Section 59-14-102, including chewing tobacco; any substitute for a tobacco
product, including flavoring or additives to tobacco; and tobacco paraphernalia
as defined under Utah Code Section 76-10-104.1.
Town. Means Fairfield Town, Utah.
Town Street. Means a street or road which has been dedicated to and accepted by
theTown or municipality, including utility easements, as a public street.
Trail. Means a dedicated path, improved or unimproved, for the passage of
pedestrians, non-motorized vehicles, or equestrian related uses.
Transit-Oriented Development (TOD). Means a form of development that maximizes
transit infrastructure by concentrating the most intense types of development
around transit stations and along transit lines. Development in such areas is
designed to make transit use as convenient as possible.
Travel Trailer. Means a non-motorized, vehicular portable structure built on a
chassis for temporary use as living quarters during travel or vacation periods;
it is fabricated for towing on medium-duty roads and has a body size not to
exceed eight (8) feet in width and forty (40) feet in length.
Section 12.1.190. U - W.
Undue influence. Means influence by which a person is induced to act otherwise
than by their own free will or without adequate attention to the consequences.
Unreasonable Hardship. Means a general restriction placed upon a lot with
respect to setback or area where, by reason of exceptional narrowness,
shallowness, shape, or topography of such lot, a literal enforcement of the
general restrictions would result in an unfairness to the owner compared to the
owners of other lots in the same zone and which literal enforcement would be
unnecessary in order to achieve the intent of the zone.
Urban Design Committee. Means a committee made up of architects, planners,
builders, or other persons whose primary responsibilities are to review
architectural plans for commercial, industrial, and multi-family developments;
and make recommendations to the Planning Commission regarding architectural
style, urban design, and exterior building materials for all types of
developments.
Utility. Means any ditch, pipe, wire, way or right of way owned by any person
which crosses, goes along, over or under a Fairfield Town road or right of way.
Utilities. Means culinary and secondary water lines and systems, pressure and
gravity irrigation lines and ditches, sanitary sewer lines, storm drain lines,
subdrains, electric power, natural gas facilities, cable television, telephone
transmission lines, data transmission lines, underground conduits and junction
boxes, and other services deemed to be of a public utility nature by the Town.
Variance. Means an authorization by the Appeal Authority relative to a specific
parcel of land for a modification of a zone's standard height, bulk, area,
width, setback, or separation requirement; as distinguished from a special
exception (conditional use), the allowing of a use not listed as permitted in a
zone, or any other change in zoning requirements.
Vehicle. Means an automobile, trailer, boat or other device in which a person
or thing is (or has been or may be, according to the context) transported from
one place to another along the ground, through the air, and/or over the water.
Vehicle, Obsolete. Means a used vehicle which lacks a current license and state
registration, or a used vehicle which is not in running order without adding
parts or repairs. (Exception to the "current license and state registration"
standard: a type of vehicle which is not required under Utah State law to be
registered and have a license to be operated on public roads, such as a trailer
under 750 pound gross unladen weight.)
Warranty Bond. Means a document that meets the requirements of this Title;
warranting any improvements required in this Title; accompanied by a Bond
Agreement in an amount as specified in this Title on forms approved by the
Town; and having the form of an escrow bond with funds on deposit in a
reputable, federally-insured financial institution, a cash bond deposited with
the Town, or a letter of credit from a reputable, federally-insured financial
institution.
Water Source, Culinary. Means a well, spring, stream, or municipal-type piping
system (as opposed to water bottles or holding units filled by carried-in water
from a source elsewhere).
Water Transmission Line. Means a pipe, ditch, canal, aqueduct or other conduit
used or designed to be used to carry water to a particular place; not a natural
watercourse.
Waterways. Means those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks, springs,
gullies, or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by the
Town Council, as shown on the Town master drainage plan, or as designated by
FEMA, and in which no structure or building construction or placement is
permitted.
Width of Lot. Means a measurement of the distance between side property lines.
Windmill. Means a structure utilizing wind power for the pumping of water for
agricultural use on the parcel of property on which the windmill is located, or
for electrical power generation for a residence and other permitted structures
and uses located on the subject parcel of property. [This definition shall not
preclude a windmill which generates its primary electrical power for use on the
premise from selling the surplus to an electrical utility provider; provided
that the design of the windmill is only to provide required electrical power
for use on the subject parcel of property, and not for commercial electrical
power generation. Any other wind generated electrical power facility shall be
classified as an electrical power generation plant, not a windmill.]
Wire. Means fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
Wireless Telecommunication Equipment. Means a structure intended for
transmitting or receiving television, radio, data, telephone, or other wireless
communications.
Section 12.1.200. X - Z.
Xeriscape. Means a landscaping practice that uses plants that grow successfully
in arid climates and a landscaping design intended to conserve Town water
resources.
Yard. Means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this Code.
Yard, Front. Means a yard between the front lot line and the front façade of
the main building and extends for the full width of the lot.
Yard, Rear. Means a yard between the rear lot line and the rear facade of a
main building, extending across the full width of interior lots; or, for corner
lots, a yard between the rear lot line and the setback line of the building and
extending between the interior side lot line and the front yard or side street
yard lying opposite thereto..
Yard, Side. Means a yard between the interior side lot line and the side facade
of a main building, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, and street
side yard; yard between the street side lot line and the side façade of a main
building on a corner lot, extending from the front yard to the rear lot line.
Zoning. Means an area of the Town that has been given a designation which
regulates the construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, or use of
buildings or structures, or the use of land as set forth in this Ordinance.
Zoning Map. Means a map, adopted as part of a land use ordinance, that depicts
land use zones and overlay designations for all properties located within the
Town of Fairfield.
 
